On behalf of the Namibian delegation, I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. As a distinguished diplomat and public servant with long experience, you bring to your office an outstanding record of wisdom, excellence and industry. Côte d’Ivoire and Namibia have maintained close relations of friendship and cooperation. On a personal note, I take great pride in your brilliant election and extend best wishes to you. During his term of office, your distinguished predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, introduced practical steps aimed at enhancing the work of the General Assembly and promoting further our common endeavours towards peace, partnership, development and prosperity. We commend him for all this. Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our illustrious Secretary-General, has always kept his plate full in the service of our Organization and its Charter. He has also, on a continuous basis, kept intensifying his tireless efforts in furtherance of world peace and security and, not least, development and regional conflict management and resolution. The Secretary-General’s report 'An Agenda for Development' is an important and timely complement to 'An Agenda for Peace'. Together they reinforce General Assembly resolution 48/165 on the 'Renewal of the dialogue on strengthening international economic cooperation for development through partnership'. I can assure the Secretary-General that he can count on Namibia’s support in the discharge of his mandate. Following our independence, the Government and the people of Namibia strongly felt that the decolonization of our country was not complete because parts of our national territory still remained under colonial occupation. In 1991, from this rostrum, I called on the international community and, particularly, the permanent members of the Security Council to live up to their commitment, collectively and severally, by ensuring the early reintegration of Walvis Bay and the Offshore Islands into Namibia, in accordance with Security Council resolution 432 (1978). Since then, I have kept the international community abreast of the negotiations to this end between the Governments of Namibia and South Africa. In 1992, I reported on the establishment of the Joint Administrative Authority, and last year I announced the agreed date for the reintegration. It is with pride and satisfaction that I am now finally informing the General Assembly and the world community as a whole that, on 1 March 1994, Walvis Bay and the Offshore Islands were reintegrated into Namibia. Security Council Resolution 432 (1978) has thus been fully implemented. On that emotional but indeed solemn occasion marking the second independence of Namibia, Mr. Sam Nujoma, President of Namibia, proudly declared that at last Walvis Bay and the Offshore Islands were forever liberated and reintegrated into Namibia and he thanked the people of South Africa for their role in making this possible. A huge and tumultuous crowd of Namibians and friends from abroad who were gathered there confirmed this truth with their loud cheers. In the end, diplomacy has triumphed over confrontation. I would like to place on record Namibia’s gratitude to the Secretary-General, as well as the Secretaries-General of the Organization of African Unity and the Commonwealth, the member States of the South African Development Community (SADC) and the front- line States, as well as many other good friends who rendered support and encouragement to Namibia in the negotiating process. At this point let me reiterate what I said then, that a successful resolution of this issue will not only consolidate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country but will also create enormous opportunity for economic integration, community- building and prosperity for the SADC region. New vistas for trade, transport and communication would be opened up throughout southern Africa. And this will further stimulate free movement of goods, services and people in the area. Walvis Bay will greatly complement other ports in the region. It is a truism that peace, democracy, political stability and good governance are among the basic pillars for development. The southern African region presents a good example of transformation from war, conflicts, economic destabilization, political instability, social disintegration, suppression and denial of human rights to the new situation of peace, democracy, stability, regional cooperation and hope for a more prosperous future for us all. The former Southern Africa Development Coordinating Conference (SADCC) vigorously sought to counteract the destabilization and subversion of the 17 countries of the region by the apartheid regime of South Africa. The front-line States, with vigour and determination, also pursued the fight for liberation, peace, political stability, democratization and promotion and protection of human rights. Now, with the eradication of apartheid in South Africa and the installation of the first democratically elected Government, the struggle for freedom and political emancipation in southern Africa was crowned with a gigantic victory. The people of South Africa finally triumphed over the apartheid system. The epoch making inauguration of President Nelson Mandela, on 10 May 1994, was a victory for humanity and a vindication of the untold sacrifices of the South African people. The international community, and in particular the countries and the peoples of southern Africa, celebrated this joyous event, confident in the conviction that peace had finally come to our region. We in Namibia are particularly gratified to welcome the new South Africa into the fold of the community of nations. Just as we struggled together during the apartheid era, we look forward to strengthened partnership for development and prosperity for our people and the region. The time for reconstruction and economic cooperation in the region has finally dawned. We are convinced that the transformation in 1992 of the Southern African Development Coordinating Conference into the Southern African Development Community (SADC) will further consolidate regional economic cooperation and all-round development for the prosperity of all our people. This will indeed serve as a formidable building-block towards the realization of the goals of the African Economic Community, especially in the field of inter-Africa trade, investment, capacity-building and human resource development. In this context, Namibia welcomes with appreciation President Clinton’s announcement yesterday in Washington that the United States Government will make a substantial financial contribution to reconstruction and development in South Africa, as well as in other countries in the region. It is good news for us that a friend of Africa, Ambassador Andrew Young, will coordinate this programme. Let me mention here the recent first-ever meeting between Foreign Ministers of the European Union and SADC held last month in Berlin. The meeting was historic and elevated the interaction and cooperative relations between the two regions to a higher political and economic level. The past four years have seen throughout Africa a process of free and fair elections, multi-party democracy, the protection of human rights, press freedom, the rule of law, and market-oriented economies. This process has taken a firm direction and produced positive results in southern Africa and in other parts of Africa. In 1989, successful independence elections were held which culminated in a free and independent Namibia in 1990. In 1991, democratic elections were held in Zambia; in 1992 free and fair elections were held in Angola, though regrettably UNITA refused to accept the results and restarted the fighting; Lesotho held multi-party democratic elections in 1993; and this year, South Africa and Malawi underwent democratic transformations. In October, Botswana and Mozambique will hold democratic elections. Multi-party democratic, presidential and parliamentary elections are scheduled in Namibia in December this year. Likewise, 1995 will see multi-party democratic elections in Tanzania and general elections in Zimbabwe. This would mean that the vision for deepening democratization, peace, prosperity and true partnership in SADC will be greatly boosted. In the emerging world order resulting from the end of the cold war and the victories scored by the forces of liberation, the front-line States decided that the time had come to transform themselves into a mechanism for political consultations, conflict resolution, peace and security in the SADC region. The new body which is now being put together is intended to augment the Organization of African Unity (OAU) mechanism for conflict resolution and peace-keeping, and will serve primarily as the political and security arm of SADC itself. The countries of SADC, through this mechanism, are committed to defend and protect constitutional order and the rule of law. Through their common vision for peace and development, a task force of three Heads of State recently succeeded in peacefully redressing the attempted overthrow of the democratically elected Government of Lesotho. It was a first major test, and the SADC leaders rose to the occasion and defused what was potentially an explosive situation with serious consequences for the whole region. Africa needs to produce similar success stories, through concerted regional initiatives, in other conflict situations such as Rwanda, Burundi, Liberia, Somalia, the Sudan and others. Naturally, we welcome the serious efforts which are being made by neighbouring African States in and relating to each one of these trouble spots. To this end, Africa and the international community alike should heed the appeals for contributions to the OAU 18 Peace Fund. In Namibia, we believe that once given adequate financial and human resources Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, the OAU Secretary-General, and his staff are capable of implementing expeditiously the relevant decisions of the succeeding summits of African leaders. In Angola, it is our strong expectation that the protracted negotiations currently under way in Lusaka appear poised for an imminent and successful conclusion. The Government and the people of Namibia are indeed awaiting the successful resolution of this bloody conflict. In their own modest way, the Government and the people of Namibia will continue to play a constructive role to hasten this process. The statement made last week from this rostrum by the Foreign Minister of Angola demonstrated once again the flexibility and genuine goodwill of the Angolan Government to reach a peaceful settlement in the interest of the suffering Angolan people. UNITA, it is sad to say, continues to obstruct progress and wage war. It should be made to heed the urgent warnings of the Security Council. The United Nations should, in the meantime, keep itself in readiness to increase its personnel in Angola as soon as a cease-fire is restored. The ever- increasing peace-keeping missions of the United Nations need sound financial support, if indeed peace is to be achieved and preserved. I therefore urge the States Members of our Organization to heed the Secretary-General’s call in his current report for adequate funding for peace-keeping operations. Namibia is very much encouraged by the recent conclusion of an agreement between the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba on immigration issues. It is our fervent hope that the signing of this agreement will serve as the beginning of serious negotiations to resolve all aspects of the long-standing dispute between them, in the interest of peace, trade, development and good neighbourliness. I made the same plea last year from here, and the latest development helps to keep my hope alive. Namibia enjoys excellent friendly and productive relations with both countries. It is in this spirit that we advocate rapprochement between them. We consider that in both elections and governance popular participation is a prerequisite for development and prosperity. At independence, however, Namibia inherited a dual economy that was based on an unequal distribution of wealth and disparity of income resulting from apartheid. As a result, the majority of the population has incomes that are far below the national average. To redress these imbalances, the Government has been pursuing prudent economic policies aimed at improving the lives of the majority of our citizens. The direction is clear, although the road ahead is replete with pitfalls. However, I must say that the Government’s will and determination to succeed cannot be doubted. In 1991, Namibia sought least-developed-country status to redress imbalances in education, health, housing and employment. The granting by the General Assembly of the 'as if' least-developed-country option to Namibia, if not the full status of least-developed country, nonetheless allowed us to lay the foundation for the reconstruction of our economic and social structures. In spite of the Government’s best efforts in these critical areas, imbalances persist in our society. Provisional figures from the ongoing 1993-1994 National Housing, Income and Expenditure Survey provide clear evidence of skewed income distribution. Using private household consumption as an indicator, preliminary survey estimates show that 50 per cent of the poorest households account for about 13 per cent of the total consumption. The richest 10 per cent of the households consume about 33 per cent. The low literacy rate, the low level of manufacturing industry and the extremely skewed distribution of income are a result of institutionalized social inequality over long periods. These social and economic sequels of the old apartheid order continue to bedevil the Government’s developmental efforts. In accordance with our current 'as if' status, and with the assistance of the World Bank, the Namibian Government is at present preparing a public expenditure review. The findings so far point to dramatic income disparities, in spite of the efforts by the Government that I alluded to earlier. It is in this context that Namibia wishes to appeal once again to the States Members of our Organization for an extension of the 'as if' least-developed-country status for an additional number of years. This will be an enormous contribution to our determined efforts to improve the quality of life for disadvantaged Namibians. We thank those States and agencies that have implemented resolution 46/204, on 'as if' least- developed-country status and appeal for their continued assistance, which will strengthen the foundation we have laid for development and further consolidate our democracy. 19 The United Nations is centrally placed to address the major global problems facing us. Its focus, however, should not be limited to the issues of peace and security. The other critical issues, reconstruction and development, must be given the same serious attention. The World Summit on Social Development, for example, must be a forum for us to renew our commitment and political will to effectively address the diverse social and economic problems. We must come away from Copenhagen to act; the international community this time will need to summon more courage in order to translate into action the bold decisions we shall take. There is a linkage between the Plan of Action and follow-up mechanisms adopted at the Cairo population Conference and the goals of the Copenhagen and the Beijing Conferences in 1995. This requires greater and systematic coordination, so as to ensure economy, efficiency and the achievement of goals we all share. The continued marginalization and exclusion of women from many spheres of life are a challenge to us all. The platform for action to be adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing next year, must therefore assure the full and equal participation of women at all levels of society. Namibia’s Constitution calls for affirmative action and enlightened policies to effect positive change in this area of human endeavour. Namibia is an active member of the Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic and will continue to pursue the vigorous promotion of trade in the South Atlantic region, including the development of fisheries and marine resources as well as tourism on a sustainable basis. The South Atlantic region comprises a great expanse of waters, which the countries of the Zone are committed to keep nuclear-free. Similarly, African countries are about to sign a treaty for the denuclearization of the continent. In recent weeks, important meetings of Ministers and officials of the African and Latin American countries have taken place in Punta del Este, Uruquay, and Brasilia, Brazil, to further advance dialogue and cooperation on issues of common interest. It was in this spirit of South-South cooperation that Namibia supported the establishment of the South Centre, towards whose operations we have already made a significant contribution. I should now like to state Namibia’s position on the overall reform of the United Nations, and in particular equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council. Namibia does not believe that the present decision- making machinery of the Security Council will effectively serve the international community in the twenty-first century. Change towards a more representative Council would enhance its legitimacy, credibility and effectiveness. Representation on the Security Council must reflect the phenomenal numerical growth in the membership of the General Assembly. In line with the principle of geographical and equitable representation, Africa is entitled to an appropriate representation of no fewer than two permanent seats on the Security Council. For us, Security Council reform means more than merely adding two or more industrialized permanent members. What is required is democracy, transparency and fair play. Namibia reiterates its position that the veto power is outdated and undemocratic and should be abolished. Equally, the General Assembly should not be allowed to lose its authority, competence and relevance in the reform process. Rather, it too needs further strengthening in all aspects. Namibia is of the strong view that the United Nations, and Africa in particular, should leave no stone unturned to ensure that the people of Western Sahara are not left to face their fate alone. The decolonization and political emancipation of Africa cannot be declared complete without self-determination for them as well through a democratic referendum jointly supervised by the United Nations and the OAU. With regard to the dispute between two of our esteemed friends, India and Pakistan, on the question of Jammu and Kashmir, Namibia urges them to pursue peaceful dialogue and promote bilateral negotiations without public confrontation. On another issue, we are encouraged by Libya’s acceptance of Security Council resolution 731 (1992) and its expressed willingness to resolve the Lockerbie crisis with the three Western Powers. Dialogue and diplomacy should be placed on the front burner. Next year the Non-Proliferation Treaty review and extension Conference will be held. Namibia is a signatory to the Treaty. It goes without saying that the Conference will provide a golden opportunity for review, assessment and extension of this vital Treaty, which has so far helped to prevent nuclear war. There is also a proposal by Zimbabwe, a proposal that we fully support, to seek an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice on the legality of the use and threat of use of nuclear weapons. 20 Other critical issues, such as general and complete disarmament, nuclear technology, nuclear-weapon-free zones and the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, also need to be discussed and resolved. Once there is consensus on these and other related concerns, the extension of the Treaty, limited or unlimited, can be resolved to the satisfaction of both nuclear and non-nuclear States parties. The peace process in the Middle East continues to gain momentum and wider acceptance in the region and beyond it. For us, the centre-piece of this peace process is and must remain full realization of the right of self-determination of the Palestinian people, led by the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), which must lead to complete nationhood. In conclusion, as we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and are about to usher in a new millennium, it is time for the world to take stock. The world leadership of today comes largely from a generation that saw violent conflicts, the untold devastation of societies and families and shattered hopes and dreams. We can, on the whole, visualize peace, though it is not yet assured in all regions. However, the vision of peace prevails over the vision of conflicts, and we must be determined to defend it. It is the vision of peace that we must bequeath to the next generation. That should be the gift of our time to the next century. Allow me at the outset, Mr. President, to congratulate Mr. Essy on his election and to wish all participants in this Assembly success in their work. My appreciation also goes to the Secretary-General for his able leadership of our Organization. At this year’s session the General Assembly will deal with numerous issues of vital importance for the whole of humanity. In the desire continuously to enhance the role of the United Nations as a universal organization of irreplaceable character, every Member State must make its utmost contribution to the establishment of a better and more prosperous world and to improving relations between the peoples on this planet, in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations. In that spirit, my country, the Republic of Macedonia, is prepared, with all of its modest forces, to contribute to achieving these aims, which are of universal interest, and to improving the functioning and the role of this Organization. I would like to assure the Assembly that our delegation will make its full contribution to that end. The President returned to the Chair. In the Republic of Macedonia, hopes run high that the work of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly will result in the adoption of the 'agenda for development - and we deem development the most important issue facing humanity on the threshold of the new millennium. We are convinced that the work of this session will also have a positive effect in overcoming acute crises and conflicts in the world. In short, we are prepared to make our full contribution to the strengthening of the role and the importance of the United Nations for peace and security in the world, economic progress and the prosperity of humanity. The last decade of this century has shown very acutely the problem of economic and social development in the world. On the one hand, there are the hopes of humanity, rightly directed towards the world of highly developed countries as a guarantor of economic progress, social safety, human dignity and a healthy environment. On the other hand, underdeveloped countries are facing the elementary issues of survival and escape from poverty, economic despair and insecurity. The countries in transition, including my own, are going through a painful period of trying to find their own place in the world of market economies and democracy and are additionally burdened by their own devastated 29 General Assembly 9th meeting Forty-ninth session 28 September 1994 economies, social problems and threats of new, regressive and undemocratic situations. This controversial picture of the world shows the full complexity of international economic and social development and thus raises the question of a possible way out of such a situation. I am quite certain that the majority of the world sees the solution neither in various new ideological concepts nor in new regional and political divisions along such lines - and even less in ideas leading to a division of responsibilities and rights among countries based on false altruism and utopian blueprints. A solution is possible only if we acknowledge the interdependence of economic and social development. This is a fact to which no nation today can remain indifferent, regardless of its size and level of development. It is more than obvious that the economic problems of the undeveloped world constitute a serious threat to the developed countries. Furthermore, it is more than clear that a solution to the problem of underdevelopment cannot be sought in the form of social assistance or gifts. On the contrary, the very essence of global economic and social interdependence teaches us that by helping the undeveloped countries solve their problems developed countries are in fact helping themselves. Thus, the inferior position of the underdeveloped should be redressed through mutual responsibility and by opening the prospects for economic development and democracy under the best possible conditions on the world market. In that sense, the successful end of the Uruguay Round of negotiations and the establishment of the new World Trade Organization in early 1995 are indeed encouraging. I am convinced that the new General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) will stimulate the further liberalization of world trade and enhance the world trade system, because the reduction and elimination of barriers in world trade will provide a chance not only for a realistic way out for the underdeveloped and countries in transition, but also for the global growth of world trade and economic cooperation as well. It is no less important that the United Nations and its specialized institutions aim their efforts at increasing international financial support for development and at tackling such acute problems as arrears and debt servicing. These would be very concrete and positive steps towards overcoming the problems of underdevelopment. The comprehensive character of these problems must be regarded with a very keen awareness of two global aspects as well: protection of the environment and demographic processes. Without these two aspects, a universal programme for economic and social development cannot be envisaged nor can any future for humanity. Global economic interdependence strongly emphasizes the importance of regional and world economic integration processes. Their outlook and advantages are unquestionable and they should be assisted and encouraged by the United Nations. My country views its support of such policies as increasing the possibility of and prospects for its own development as well as the development of other developing countries and countries in transition. Despite all the worthwhile efforts being made, I regret to note that the Declaration issued at the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna is not being carried out as expected. The world is still faced with crude and massive violations of human rights. The tragedies in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Rwanda are distressing confirmations of this fact. There are many countries where the economic, social and cultural rights of the people are being violated. Policies of racial, ethnic and religious discrimination are widespread. We have been witnesses to 'ethnic cleansing' and genocide. And, what is most regrettable of all, these are all used as reasons for waging wars, murdering innocent people on a massive scale and destroying towns and villages. The region of the Balkans where my country is situated is one such unfortunate example. The war in Bosnia and Herzegovina continues. All the efforts of the international community, the Security Council and the most influential countries of the world cannot convince the Bosnian Serbs that peace is the only solution. It is true that the forces of peace are growing. However, the feeling of uncertainty in the region is still present, and even spiraling. It is difficult to foresee a settlement of the situation in the region of the former Yugoslavia that does not include full mutual recognition of the newly independent States and the establishment of diplomatic relations between them. The sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro have seriously burdened economic conditions in the neighbouring countries, in a region where economic ties had already been severed and economic assistance from the international community is urgently needed. Insecurity in the South Balkans is also growing. The Republic of Macedonia is being exposed to the classic economic aggression of a unilateral economic embargo introduced by Greece in February this year in order to 30 General Assembly 9th meeting Forty-ninth session 28 September 1994 impose its will in matters concerning Macedonian national identity. Serious tensions have also been caused by the most recent developments in Greek-Albanian and Greek-Turkish relations. These are all elements of great concern to us. Due attention to this situation is being devoted by the relevant responsible international factors and, within this framework, by the Security Council. I should like to reaffirm the positive role and contribution of the peace- keeping forces of the United Nations deployed on a preventive mission in Macedonia, a very successful action undertaken in the interests of peace and deserving wider support. With its peaceful policy and position, the Republic of Macedonia is a factor for stability in the region. We are sparing no effort to demonstrate that, even in a region as turbulent as ours, other solutions are viable; that peace is guaranteed by human and minority rights; that cohabitation, tolerance and mutual understanding between various ethnic groups is possible; that relations between States become more stable when the principles of the inviolability of borders are respected through cooperation on an equal footing; and that problems can be resolved successfully only through dialogue and political means. For us, a way out of the historical frustrations and war myths in the Balkans is possible only through the implementation of the principles of the new European model of open borders, integration and cooperation. That is why, today, the Balkan region needs the support of the international community on a number of key issues: an end to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the prevention of a spillover of that war, and the establishment of permanent foundations for peace; the strengthening of democratic processes in all countries and in the region as a whole, and, especially, an increase in awareness of human rights and the rights of national minorities; support for economic reform in these countries, in view of the fact that most of them are now in transition, and, most important, their incorporation into collective security mechanisms. The worst threat for the Balkans is the emergence of new divisions and regrouping along religious or ethnic lines. The Balkans cannot remain as a living relic of bloc divisions in Europe and the world, since if it does it will become an open threat to peace and stability on the continent and in the world. This can best be avoided through preventive action by the international community in this region, not only in the form of monitoring missions but through concrete policies which get the job done. Allow me to conclude by expressing our hope that the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly will serve to strengthen the role of the United Nations, in the interest of peace and security in the world, in the interest of harmony in global economic and social development, in the interest of the survival and protection of planet Earth and in the interest of humanity.I wonder how historians will judge the last decade of this century, and what future generations will read about these years. My opinion is that we are experiencing an exciting period of arduous challenges and great expectations for peace. The installation of the administration of the Palestinian National Authority in Jericho gave us strong hope for a peaceful future. The excessive crises and wars that have recently and suddenly broken out and the revival and intensification of old ones in too many parts of our planet call for the involvement and intervention of the international community. Let me also stress that not only should such intervention be firm, but it should also be legitimate and correct. In the effort to restore peace, the international community should act fairly, respecting the legitimate reasons and opposing the illegitimate ones, with all due regard for man and human dignity. 13 General Assembly 22nd meeting From the top of our Mount Titano, on a clear day, one can see the coast of the former Yugoslavia. In the fourth century, San Marino’s founder fled from that coast to escape religious persecution. Now, in this forum, on behalf of the people of San Marino, I launch an appeal for peace for those tormented regions, for Sarajevo, and for the recognition of the equal rights of all human beings, without distinction of any kind, as well as for the dignity of those deprived of their right to life. The public response to the important Conference on Population and Development, which brought representatives of many countries to Cairo in an effort to solve some of the problems hindering the fair and balanced development of all peoples, has now faded away. The decisions taken during that Conference, whose aims have been distorted and misinterpreted, are only a small step forward. However, it is encouraging to see how it has been generally recognized that our common concerns cannot and must not lie only in a necessary reduction of rapid population growth. All the problems related to this issue must be addressed, thus ensuring all people’s rights to existence, to good health and free development, and the disposal of their resources as they see fit. The Republic of San Marino participated in the Conference, which was held in Egypt, prompted by the conviction that it was its duty to offer a contribution. My fellow citizens are well aware that a small country like ours will never be in a position to play a substantial role in the choices to be made and the decisions to be taken. Nevertheless, our foreign policy is clear, and reflects our deep-rooted historical traditions. In line with the policy adopted, we feel compelled to call for respect for human rights and dignity. The latter implies the right to make free choices, the right to development, to democratic progress, equality, equal opportunities, and the right to live in peace. It seems that the United Nations has given to the Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing conferences the task of outlining a feasible solution to all the problems related to social development and the status of women. It is clear that in declaring 1994 the International Year of the Family the General Assembly made a precise and well-considered choice. By this decision the Assembly’s aim was to celebrate an essential part of society, in the conviction that the family, the smallest democracy at the centre of society, is the first and most important element of any country’s structure and deserves special attention by all States. In a national and international context characterized by a disquieting crisis of values, by increasing economic and social difficulties and by a growing lack of models for young people, the family, with its various historical, cultural and religious components, represents the last hope for mankind. Against this background, all Governments have the primary task of formulating policies capable of helping and supporting the family and its components while respecting its autonomy and specific features. The Republic of San Marino considers all family issues to be of the utmost importance, and it has recently taken new measures for the protection of motherhood and fatherhood, in addition to the laws already in force. The widespread development we all hope to achieve has its roots in the family, in respect for it and within it, and means in practice gender equality and equal dignity between men and women. On the other hand, development and its equitable distribution can be obtained only if our projects include the safeguarding of the environment. It is a notorious fact that too often protection of the natural environment is sacrificed for economic and national reasons that damage the interests of other people and the common well-being. The richest and most industrialized countries are regularly destroying the natural environment inside and outside their borders. Therefore, we deemed it necessary and fair to include the environment, along with peace, economic growth, social justice and democracy, as items on the Agenda for Development — the project proposed by the Secretary-General for the solution of the problems that will face our planet within the next century. In my country especially, where the protection of the territory is of basic importance because of its small size, public opinion in general and young people in particular are extremely sensitive to environmental issues and ask that choices be made that respect the interests of the community and the individual in a spirit of true solidarity. In San Marino we have created the Foundation for the Environment, with very ambitious programmes, and we hope in the future to have the cooperation and support of the United Nations. 14 General Assembly 22nd meeting We all share the opinion that economic development goes hand in hand with social development. Therefore, it is high time for all States to adopt appropriate social policies and develop structures in support of the poorest and weakest groups of the population. Unfortunately, unemployment, poverty, the absence of economic security for the elderly, and exploitation of labour are still a very sad, indeed tragic, reality. My appeal to the world for solidarity is not just rhetorical. Solidarity is not only spiritual sharing but also, and above all, the substantial support offered by the rich countries to the poor ones, the solidarity of the upper classes with the lower classes, and even distribution of welfare, equal rights and opportunities. Solidarity not only means substantial aid but also implies tolerance, a noble feeling but one that is hard to achieve. We are still witnessing with amazement shameful anti- Semitic, xenophobic and racist attitudes, showing that a culture of tolerance, dialogue and respect has still to be developed at all levels. The concept seems to me to be very simple: all men are equal and no one can claim to be superior. However, respect for others seems to be difficult to achieve, since it cannot be imposed by law or by a Government decision. This ambitious goal can be attained only through an educational process even if a long-lasting one — that involves future generations and calls upon national and supranational institutions to carry out their own responsibilities. The United Nations is surely in a position to meet these challenges and to offer the right and appropriate solutions to the States. The role played by the United Nations as it approaches its fiftieth anniversary — an event we are about to celebrate — confirms all that. International peace and security, the solution of many domestic crises, the settlement of disputes, the beginning of social and economic development, respect for human rights, humanitarian help, decolonization and other legal rules in international relations are all fields in which the United Nations is working. However, continuous attention to all the achievements of the United Nations is needed. The Organization, by adapting its structure to new circumstances and needs, will be able to offer a stronger commitment and to be the authoritative and dynamic guide the world needs for the future. Furthermore, San Marino gives particular importance to a reform of the Security Council that will lead to an equitable distribution of its seats and to a greater transparency in its work. The proper functioning of the Security Council, its close and coordinated relationship with the General Assembly, and the widest possible representation are the best guarantees that the United Nations will be able to carry out its tasks. In this context I believe it is appropriate to remember that small States, willing and capable of making a contribution, must enjoy equal rights and dignity, since both the big Powers and the various small communities are interested in the peaceful future of the world, in the establishment of democracy and in the strengthening of freedom. More than 50 years ago, in June 1944, the world conflict brought death and ruin even to the neutral mountain of San Marino, which had no part in the conflict and where thousands of poor refugees, deprived of everything except their lives, had sought shelter. The appeal for peace launched almost 50 years ago by the signatories of the San Francisco Charter is still dramatically up to date. Some might think that a peaceful world is a mere Utopia, and they might be right. But I am firmly convinced that everyone must contribute to the achievement of this wonderful Utopia. Sir, your election to preside over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly is a timely tribute to your outstanding professional and human qualities. It also reflects the high regard in which your sister country, Côte d’Ivoire, is held due to the sagacity and level-headedness which it has shown in rising to the challenges of its 19 national destiny and in performing its role on the regional and international levels. Your election is also a tribute to our continent, Africa, which this year sent to the international community a message of hope through the emergence of the united, democratic and non-racial South Africa, which was solemnly welcomed to our ranks here a few months ago. Your predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, added to his prestigious career an outstanding performance in discharging his mandate, effectively and authoritatively. To him we extend our best wishes in his future activities in the service of Guyana, the Third World and the international community as a whole. To the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, I should like to reiterate Algeria’s support of his efforts to strengthen the role of our Organization as the crucible for international action toward peace and development. As we move toward the end of a century which has made us aware of the global threats to peace, we stand in need of a collective response, a new kind of political thinking and an elucidation of the stakes involved in order for us to better grasp the challenges that face the community of nations today. Given the heterogeousness of players and the complexity of strategies, the present global disorder seems to be shaping a new order of things wherein the various strategic, economic, political, cultural, social and ecological spheres tend to move closer together. This means that in the highly fluctuating and fluid situation of the world in which we now live, the international order makes it more difficult to coordinate the practices of States and is forcing improvisation and an absence of logic on the initiatives of the international community. Hence the international order’s penchant to find balance only in heavy-handed tendencies that shape the future of peoples and of nations. Therefore, it is urgent to remove those ambiguities that are preventing the international community from moving toward becoming the master of its own collective destiny. In this respect, the United Nations, the repository of human hope and the receptacle of human fears, has a particular and important role to play as it represents an irreplaceable forum for dialogue and concerted action. Because it is also the vector of a vision of change that would bring the course of international relations into line with the purposes and principles of the Charter, the United Nations must find in the convergence of wills the motivation likely to advance our collective action toward new horizons of peace, and of universally and equitably shared security and prosperity. The possibilities offered by the ending of the cold war and the profound changes in the international system have favoured new modes of interaction. We note here that the streamlining of international interaction and of social and economic dynamics has highlighted inequalities and is shaping and reshaping constellations of forces that are beyond the rules of the world system. These manifestations of ambivalence and rupture are cause for concern. They foreshadow a disturbing redefinition of the global balance through a reshaping of the destiny of numerous peoples and nations that are faced with insecurity and injustice. The arduous progress of the international community toward building a global order whose norms of functioning and laws of development would benefit from universal acceptance clearly requires a new impetus to ensure control over the changes that are taking place and to integrate them into an orderly conception of transition. Thus a security brought about by disarmament and an agreed-upon and fully assumed solidarity that give meaning and content to the Agenda for Peace and an Agenda for Development as well as the results expected from the first World Summit for Social Development would carry this promise by offering a framework and a raison d’être for a healthy remobilization of the community of nations in tackling the next millennium with the guarantee of a better future. The Non-Aligned Movement and the Group of 77, who, in their efforts, identify themselves with the persistent quest for such a future, naturally and more than ever manifest their interest and willingness to engage resolutely in an effective and equitable partnership which would mobilize energies in the service of this great endeavour. My country will spare no effort in making its contribution. Nearly 40 years ago, on 1 November 1954, Algeria undertook to stamp its own history with the seal of the principles and objectives of the United Nations through its struggle for liberation which it waged under the banner of the equality of peoples and of their right to self- determination. 20 As an active member of the Organization and one that has been involved in the realization of so many achievements which brought honour to the United Nations, Algeria has continually reiterated in this forum the aspirations of its people which are the same as those of so many other peoples whose experiences and identity it shared. Whether it be a question of decolonization or of development, of disarmament or of human rights, of the democratization of international relations or of the actual functioning of the Organization, Algeria has joined its voice and its efforts to all those of good faith in setting its stakes confidently on the capacity of the international community to transcend conditions of expediency in order to harness the great surges of consensus and universal mutual assistance. It is this same spirit which has ceaselessly motivated the specific actions of my country within the framework of the solidarity and cooperation of Maghreb, of the Sahelian- Sahara, of Africa, and of the Arab and Muslim world as well as in the Third World and the Mediterranean basin. In that context, Algeria is fully aware of the significance, the scope and the effects, in its immediate area and beyond, of the profound work of national renewal in which it is currently engaged with a great deal of faith and determination. It is also aware of the sacrifices involved, for its own sake as well as for others. As during the November Revolution, which roused awareness and freed creative energies, today it there is a need to break with other forms of behavior and other burdens, in order to anchor a young and ambitious society in progress and modernity through pluralist democracy, the valorization of the elements inherent to the national character and the realization of universal ideals of social justice and collective development. The restoration of political stability, the consolidation of a State of law and order, the relaunching of economic growth which generates wealth and well-being, are a necessary step in the multi-dimensional actions of the authorities responsible for the period of transition during which the inner resources of the citizens and the intangible principles of the Republic must converge so that the open political dialogue currently being conducted by the President of State, Mr. Liamine Zeroual, may culminate as soon as possible in the resumption of a pluralist, healthy electoral process, that would express the popular will in a spirit of full sovereignty. It is in this spirit of determination and consistency that the resolute battle of Algeria against violence and terrorism - both in their manifestations and in their causes - is inscribed. This necessary campaign derives from the State’s obligation to ensure, foremost among Human Rights, the protection of the fundamental right to life. It implies that we bring to bear the same vigour in our collective denunciation of all governments who prove guilty of inciting and supporting terrorist violence or who display willingness to engage in selective steps to prevent the international community from implementing a counter-strategy. This year, Algeria has the privilege and the responsibility of coordinating those Institutions engaged in the building of Maghreban unity. In carrying out this mandate which for Algeria represents a genuine commitment to act in the service of all the peoples of the region, we are engaged in consolidating gains and promoting new initiatives while keeping in perspective, given the historical juncture in which they occur, the scope of certain difficulties, both indigenous and exogenous, which impede progress toward the objectives of the Arab-Maghreb union. Among these difficulties is the particular situation in which Libya has been put, namely that of being unable to play its role in the valorization of regional complementarities and in contributing to the economic and social expansion of the region. One must hope that the constructive proposals of Libya for the implementation of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council will enable it to quickly achieve a peaceful and just solution to outstanding questions as well as to the lifting of international sanctions which have a negative impact on the living conditions of our Libyan brethren. Similarly, the people of the Western Sahara, whose legitimate national aspirations it would be futile to hide, await the scrupulous completion of the joint mission of peace of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity. The holding of a fair and impartial referendum for self-determination in conformity with the settlement plan agreed upon by the two parties and endorsed by the Security Council is one of the primary responsibilities of the United Nations, under the Charter and under the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. No adverse factor should stand in the way of the discharge of that responsibility. 21 A just and lasting solution to the question of the Western Sahara is also an important component of the peace and stability of the region as a whole. It is also inherent to the achievement of the liberation of the African continent. This is why Algeria is encouraging the United Nations Secretary-General to ensure credibility and the utmost probity in the implementation of the settlement plan while increasing efforts to have the Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front create a political dynamic which can overcome all difficulties in the implementation of the referendum process and beyond. It was thanks to such a political dynamism that South Africa honoured its rendezvous with history, to the satisfaction of all, and that the United Nations was able to play a positive role - something that Algeria welcomes and finds gratifying. Apart from such specific elements, the peaceful dismantling of apartheid in South Africa is also an example for other African nations that are being torn asunder by fratricidal strife. With the continued assistance of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations, Burundi and Rwanda should be able to overcome the tragic circumstances that have beset them and to opt for harmonious coexistence among the elements of their respective peoples, with a view to mobilizing their energies in the service of national unity, democracy and reconstruction. The return of peace and concord in Angola and Mozambique, in line with the agreements concluded and in answer to the popular will freely expressed, should finally enable those two brotherly peoples to heal the wounds of past years and to contribute to making southern Africa a region of prosperity. Thanks to the effective participation of the countries of west Africa, the situation in Liberia is moving toward a lasting solution, to which all parties must feel committed if the country is to be secured against a recurrence of violence and instability. The conflict in Somalia continues to be cause for serious international concern. The international community’s important presence in the field has had satisfactory results in terms of humanitarian assistance and of reduced tension. The time has come for all the Somali factions to work toward facing up to the challenge of coexistence and national reconciliation in line with their people’s legitimate aspirations. Starting with the Madrid Conference, the Middle East has embarked on the path of negotiation with a view to building a comprehensive just and lasting peace in that sensitive area of the world which has endured terrible bruising and suffering. Over the past year, important steps have been taken on the road to peace, through the conclusion of the Palestinian-Israeli and the Jordanian- Israeli agreements. Algeria hails the conclusion of those agreements and expresses the hope that these first steps will be consolidated through effective and scrupulous implementation of the provisions agreed upon and that they will quickly be followed by significant breakthroughs that meet the legitimate expectations of both Lebanon and Syria. The edifice of peace in the Middle East has solid and positive foundations in international legality, and it is important that in the building of that edifice care should be taken to make it a structure of permanent validity and comprehensiveness which future generations would accept fully. Clearly, return of all the territories occupied by Israel in 1967, including Al-Quds al-Sharif, and implementation of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people are prerequisites which should be at the heart of the desired settlement. Algeria, which participates in the multilateral working groups that emanated from the Madrid Conference, will continue to work with conviction for maintaining the unity of the Palestinian and Arab ranks with a view to consolidating the parameters of peace. The unity of Arab ranks, which has been affected by the consequences of the Gulf war, is an essential prerequisite of the peace which the international community encourages and supports in the Middle East. From that point of view, an ultimate improvement in relations between Kuwait and Iraq, on the basis of international legality and with respect for the principles of independence, national sovereignty, territorial integrity, the non-use of force or of the threat to use force, and non-interference in internal affairs, is an imperative. Now that the geographic framework of coexistence and peaceful neighbourliness between the two countries has been internationally enshrined, our hope is that the unresolved humanitarian issues will be satisfactorily resolved so that an atmosphere of reconciliation may prevail and lead to concrete steps in that direction. The economic sanctions that are causing such suffering to the Iraqi people should be lifted, not only because the Iraqi authorities have cooperated in implementing the Security Council’s resolutions, but also because keeping the 22 sanctions in place will be seen as a manifestation of indifference toward a people in danger. In the same spirit, I should like to reiterate Algeria’s support for the reestablishment and preservation of the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates over the islands of Abou Moussa, Greater Tumb and Lesser Tumb, which are still under foreign occupation. The tragedy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is daily becoming more serious, and which endangers the very foundations of the United Nations in view of what is happening to one of its Members, is a horrific test of the credibility of the alleged movement, in international relations, toward the reign of law and justice. Welcome as they may be, the developments in international action that have been taking place for a year now as a result of awareness of the horrors of ethnic cleansing and of the inhuman conditions imposed on the Muslim elements of the population such developments have not put paid to the extremism of the activist Serb minority or to its irredentist ambitions which threaten the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In discharging its national responsibility for the higher interests of its people at such a critical juncture in their history, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is assured of the solidarity and support of Algeria. At a time when the Haitian people and the international community have in sight a peaceful and positive outcome to the crisis that has beset the Republic of Haiti for some three years now, Algeria hopes that peace, stability, democracy and progress will be established in that country. The twentieth century in the course of which mankind has achieved considerable control over nature through extraordinary scientific and technological advances will, nevertheless, go down in history as the century which failed to meet the need for real and full security for the human race. The shortening of distances, the interdependence of nations, and the globalization of the economy and of communications, coexist with an untenable inability to wipe out hunger, poverty and numerous epidemics, while the apocalyptic power of nuclear arsenals has exceeded all rational limits. The end of the cold war has made possible the emergence of a concept of security based on general and complete disarmament and on economic and social levers. It is important that nuclear disarmament be relentlessly pursued and that the few notable results obtained in the reduction of nuclear arsenals by the United States and the Russian Federation be expanded and strengthened by the rapid conclusion of a treaty for a complete ban on nuclear tests. It is this spirit which has made Algeria work for a new vision of collective security that would be based on general and complete disarmament. Hence, my country’s insistence that questions relating to disarmament and to non-proliferation, and therefore to international security, cannot be dissociated from those which relate to economic and social development. It is also in this same spirit that my country adopts a clear and committed attitude to the peaceful use of the atom. That is why it is an honour and pleasure for me solemnly to announce from this rostrum the decision of Algeria to deposit, during this session of the Assembly, the instruments of adherence to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. By its adherence to that Treaty, Algeria hopes to contribute to the collective enterprise of general and complete disarmament, by means of which the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons must be raised, during its next review, to the level of an effective instrument for disarmament and a tool for the peaceful uses of the atom in the service of development. Moreover, it is important that the Convention banning chemical weapons should enter into force and be fully effective. Such a challenge imposes itself by the full weight of its imperatives and through awareness of the dangers that face a world in transition and in the grip of turmoil, a world of uncertainty and one which bears powerful seeds of fragmentation. Clearly the growing gap in development between North and South, which has been particularly exacerbated by the lack of genuine dialogue, shows, with a renewed sense of urgency, the need for the international community to embark on the path of concerted action to take in hand the phenomena of interdependence and, by so doing, to extract the elements of firm cooperative action in the service of development in a spirit of solidarity. In this context of accelerated globalization of international economic realities, cooperation for development clearly forms the only possible answer to the 23 demands for new global regulation to ensure the conditions for lasting and shared international security. The message of the United Nations to which the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter are of an unprecedented nature and scope in terms of their concept and extent has encircled the globe and has won for the Organization a degree of participation which brings its membership close to a universality which is worthy of its authority and influence. The work of restructuring the United Nations system and the debate on equitable representation within the Security Council in this respect provide a valuable opportunity for a close scrutiny of the institutional functioning of the bodies of the Organization as well as a future-oriented overview that takes into consideration the need for democratization and participation in the decision-making process so that all the bodies of the Organization may always enjoy full legitimacy by working on behalf of the international community as a whole. The revitalization of the United Nations through its liberation from the practices and legacies of the cold war presupposes that an outstanding role be given to it in terms of the conception of global strategies and policies for economic and social development. The year which lies ahead now before the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations could be put to good use to promote the control and ordered sharing by all countries of the stakes at the end of the century. Thus the international community can find, by acting in solidarity and through concerted action, the springs for a new dynamism of peace and cooperation. What is at stake here is our common future. My delegation is pleased to convey warmest greetings from the Government and people of Grenada to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. We also wish to extend sincere congratulations to Your Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, on your election to the presidency of this session. The Government of Grenada takes this opportunity to commend Ambassador Samuel Insanally, the first representative from the Caribbean ever to hold the high office of President of the General Assembly, for his exemplary conduct of the proceedings of the forty-eighth session. We are indeed proud of his performance. Grenada also wishes to express profound appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his relentless efforts in the pursuit of the purposes of this Organization. Grenada is pleased to welcome the new South Africa to the United Nations, and we pay special tribute to His Excellency President Nelson Mandela for his resolute will and firm determination in the fight against apartheid, which eventually resulted in this new, democratic and non-racial South Africa. Grenada is pleased that in recent efforts to bring an end to the illegal seizure of power by the military in Haiti and to halt the ensuing human rights abuses there diplomacy prevailed and further bloodshed was averted. We now eagerly await the reinstatement of the duly elected Government and its President, Father Jean- Bertrand Aristide, and the return of democracy to Haiti. We support the actions taken by the United States of America and other multinational forces in implementation of United Nations resolutions on Haiti, and we join like-minded nations as they move to establish the structures in which development and democracy can be sustained. Grenada is prepared to do its part to ensure a more fertile ground for the growth of democracy in Haiti, our sister Caribbean country. We are proud that, within the limits of our resources, personnel from Grenada’s law enforcement services are among the multinational contingent to help in 'Operation Uphold Democracy'. After all, it was 11 years ago this month that Grenada itself profited from a similar multinational operation, affording us the historic opportunity to restore democratic principles to our way of life. It is therefore only natural that Grenada should wish Haiti well and should be prepared to support democracy in that country as fully as we do. Over the last several years many of the small developing countries within this Organization have been experiencing growing economic problems. The forced response has been to take stringent corrective measures aimed at stabilizing their economies and creating the conditions for sustainable development. Speaking specifically of my own country, Grenada, I can inform the Assembly that in 1992 we embarked on a voluntary three- year structural adjustment programme in an effort to correct serious fiscal imbalances and to put the country on a path of sustained growth. This year marks the end of the programme, and I am happy to report that some success has been achieved. The Government has significantly reduced the fiscal deficits from 25 per cent of gross domestic product in 1992 to 11 per cent in 1993 and 9 per cent to date. Moreover, Grenada’s credit rating has improved notably, with its creditworthiness restored by the World Bank in June of this year after having been forfeited in 1988. Whatever success has been recorded by that programme is a credit to regionalism, since the programme was instituted with enormous regional inputs. Grenada wishes publicly to thank the regional Governments and 11 institutions which contributed to the effort. This particular development means that Grenada is now viewed more favourably by the multilateral and specialized donor agencies and friendly Governments in terms of external financial assistance for its development programmes. Despite the good fiscal performance, the structural- adjustment programme has not been able to achieve its targets in terms of the growth rate of the gross domestic product. Thus, over the next two years much emphasis will be placed on achieving a reasonable rate of economic growth. In addition, efforts to reduce the fiscal deficits further will continue to be vigorously pursued. You, Mr. President, are well aware that a topic of particular currency in the area of international economic relations is the issue of trade and investment. Of course, over the past months new trading blocs have been created, with the result that in the Western Hemisphere we now have several such arrangements, which include the very important North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). While all the implications of NAFTA are not yet known, we must nevertheless now seek to position our economies to interface with the realities of this new economic environment. In that context, the conclusion of the latest round of the negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) has very far-reaching consequences for trade. The requirements of trade liberalization and reciprocity mean that small island developing States like Grenada must now interact on the same playing field as the more developed countries, which, in effect, signals a rapid erosion of the preferential treatment that some of us have enjoyed over the past two decades. The removal of access to market arrangements traditionally favourable to fledgling industries in our societies - the banana industry, for example - compounds our difficulties and presents a major threat to the overall well-being of our small economies. Furthermore, the creation of the World Trade Organization would most definitely change the face of international trade, and while every independent nation has the opportunity to become a party to that Organization and thus attempt to influence its operations, it is evident that, on that score, equality will not necessarily ensure equity. We are cognizant of the fact that we must now seek to enhance our productivity and competitiveness in carefully selected areas if we are to survive in this era of trade liberalization. But, more often than not, we cannot do it alone, and this is why my delegation appeals to the developed countries to be considerate of our fragile economies and the need to adapt to this seemingly hostile economic environment. The recent success of the United Nations Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in Barbados, and the adoption of its Programme of Action underscore the urgent need for international co-operation and assistance, not only in the form of financial resources for the implementation of the Programme of Action, but also in access to markets, acquisition of new technologies and institutional and human-resource development, so as to enable us to respond more capably to the challenges of finding new paths to sustainable development. The advances made since the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development must be built upon, and in this regard the importance of forging new global partnerships between developed and developing countries ought to be given priority. The protection of the global climate and biological diversity, the sustainable use and conservation of all marine resources and the protection of our oceans and high seas require urgent international assistance and cooperation. My delegation therefore looks forward to the fulfilment of the obligations of the developed countries that have pledged their commitment to assist developing countries and, in particular, small island developing States, in the implementation of the decisions and recommendations of Agenda 21, the conventions on climate change and biodiversity and all the follow-up conferences of the Rio Conference. For several years Grenada has expressed its concern at the apparent unbalanced resource commitment to security issues versus development. Consequently, my delegation commends recently expanded efforts aimed at giving greater prominence to the development needs confronting the world, particularly in the developing countries. We applaud the Secretary-General’s report 'An Agenda for Development' and we applaud the former President of the General Assembly, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, for his visionary initiative in organizing the World Hearings on Development in June of this year. We urge that the momentum gained therefrom be maintained, and we wish to place on record our support for Brazil’s call for a global conference on development in the year 1996. The question of population and development is a very sensitive issue, one that demands continuous conscientious global effort. Grenada is encouraged by the consensus which emerged from the recently concluded International Conference on Population and Development 12 at Cairo, and we are hopeful that increasingly balanced development will be viewed as the essential basis on which to treat the issue of population. We are also confident that the Conference on Women to be held at Beijing in 1995 will address one of the long- standing issues critical to development, that is, the issue of women in development. In March of 1995 world leaders will gather in Copenhagen to address one of the most pressing questions of our time, the question of social development. We will be asked to rule on the debilitating issues of poverty, meaningful employment and social inclusion. We will be asked to rule particularly in the interest of youth, the aged, the disabled and all those outside the mainstream of social integration. Grenada is confident that the World Summit for Social Development and all the other follow-ups to the Rio Conference are replacing despair with hope worldwide. At the same time, we are concerned about the different spins that may be put on the interpretation of those agreements. For example, we are concerned that environmental causes should not be used as barriers to access for goods produced in developing countries to the markets of those with more prosperous economies. We hope that, on the contrary, the developed countries will appreciate the need to assist the poorer countries to gain access to the technologies and technological know-how necessary to the promotion of more-balanced development on a global scale. Stability within and between States is a prerequisite for international peace and security. Grenada is encouraged by certain developments, beginning almost a year ago with the signing of the historic peace treaty between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. We believe that the emergence of self-rule in Jericho and Gaza is of great significance. We look forward to further positive developments in the Middle East peace process and wish all the countries in that region the peace and stability upon which lasting prosperity will be built. Grenada is encouraged by the diplomatic efforts in the search for a permanent solution to the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We commend the United Nations for its resolve and determination in this regard. We fully support the establishment of the International Tribunal to try allegations of war crimes in the former Yugoslavia. By the same token, Grenada fully supports similar initiatives in response to situations in other parts of the world, where these are deemed appropriate. In the light of the unfortunate circumstances in Rwanda that resulted in the loss of hundreds of thousands of lives, and bearing in mind other situations of human devastation, Grenada wishes to express its satisfaction with the responses from those members of the international community that have gone to the aid of people in various sorry situations. We also wish to convey our appreciation to the relief agencies and others whose tireless efforts have saved lives, restored health to the sick and hungry and brought comfort to countless victims - particularly women and children. My delegation wishes to underscore the importance of human rights, freedom and good governance as vital preconditions to domestic quietude, international harmony and the creation of the climate necessary for the achievement of progress within societies. In this regard, the promotion and protection of the rights of children is an issue that cries out for greater attention. The well-being of children cannot wait for the unprompted evolution of societies. Deliberate efforts must be expedited at various levels, global and national, to ensure the promotion and protection of children’s rights. Likewise, in this the International Year of the Family and beyond, emphasis should continue to be placed on the pivotal role of the family in national and global development. The end of the cold-war era presents opportunities for a shift from political and ideological divide to cooperation in the areas of economic and social development. New economic Powers on the world scene seek to occupy positions that were once the prerogative of the traditional super-Powers. Grenada believes that the structure of the organs of the United Nations should reflect these new developments and, at the same time, make provision for geographical representation that is consistent with today’s global, political and economic realities. Reforms currently being undertaken in the United Nations system provide an opportunity to examine the question of expanding the Security Council and the question of the veto power in the light of these new realities. Grenada supports the principle of universality and encourages the General Assembly to give renewed consideration to the wish of the Republic of China - a founding Member of the United Nations - to participate in the Organization and its specialized agencies as a full Member. We believe that this appeal from the 21 million people of the Republic of China in Taiwan for a voice and proper representation in the international community 13 is both moral and legitimate. The inclusion of the Republic of China in Taiwan in the United Nations would further contribute to global cooperation in trade, economic development and environmental and ecological protection. In addition, it would assist in the promotion of international development assistance to developing countries. Grenada believes that a committee should be set up to examine the exceptional nature of the situation of the Republic of China in the present international context. So long as drug traffickers and international arms dealers continue to ply their trade, and so long as mercenaries, terrorists and other adventurists exist, the protection and security of small States will remain particularly vulnerable to acts of aggression, from without as well as from within. While the United Nations Charter recognizes the right of States to take measures in self-defence, the reality is that often small States faced with serious threats lack the means to do so. Small States invariably look to the provisions of the United Nations Charter to secure respect for and preservation of their sovereignty. It is therefore necessary that the protection and security of small States remain a very pertinent issue among the concerns of the United Nations. The tasks of the organs and bodies of the United Nations are by no means easy. Old tensions have given way to new tensions and concerns, which demand imaginative approaches if solutions are to be found. As we embark upon preparations for the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations in 1995, let us train our sights on the factors that brought the United Nations into being in the first instance and on what gives the Organization its special worthiness. The challenge is to attain and maintain long-term global peace and stability and to enhance the prospects for solving global problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian nature. To this end, we as a community of nations must rededicate ourselves to working ever relentlessly and concertedly towards the goal of making our planet a safer, better and happier place in which to live. I am pleased to extend to you, Sir, my sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly and to express to you my great delight at seeing you, a distinguished friend from a sisterly country, conducting the work of this session. Your competence and great diplomatic experience are assets which ensure the success of our deliberations. We are convinced that, through you, Africa will bring to this session its well-known capabilities and talents in order to secure the best results for our work. Allow me to assure you of the full cooperation of the delegation of the Kingdom of Morocco. I should also like to pay tribute to His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally, the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Guyana and President of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, for the laudable work he accomplished. I should like also to express to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, my sincere regards and appreciation for his untiring efforts in upholding the principles of the Charter and for the wisdom and the perspicacity with which he faces the increasing responsibilities assigned to the United Nations in recent years. The end of the cold war gave the peoples of the world cause for hope that they were about to see the dawn of a new era in international relations, an era of democracy, justice and an effective international solidarity which would take into account the interests of all. Years after that historic opportunity, we have come to realize that our optimism was unjustified. We are to see yet any sincere international effort towards the creation of a new world order and of the hoped-for peace dividends we have seen nothing concrete yet. On the contrary, what we see now makes us fear that that historic opportunity is on the verge of being dissipated in the fog of an ambiguous international political atmosphere. A close examination of the characteristics of the present world order reveals that its thrust focuses almost totally on the issues of economic openness, freedom of international trade, democracy and human rights. There is no doubt that these two last questions deserve every attention, since they are among the underpinnings of any system of honest government and of social justice and have always been among the goals of enlightened civilizations in their search for a fair society in which justice and social peace may prevail. Maybe it would be going too far to insist, as some do, on the adoption of one model of democracy, out of all the other models, by all the countries and societies of the world without taking into account the numerous factors which have to do with the civilizations of the peoples of those countries, their customs, traditions, cultures, the degree of their development, their general conception of the universe we live in, or their views concerning life and society. As regards our Organization, the principles of democracy require us to examine its methods of operation in order to secure a unified implementation of its resolutions and ensure efficiency in the discharge of its duties. In view of the ever-increasing importance of the role the Security Council now plays in international affairs, we must debate the extent of its adaptation to the great changes that have taken place in the world recently and which have affected the balance of power, side by side with the new political and economic trends, so that we may find consensus solutions in reviewing the Security Council’s methods of work and in trying to enhance its efficacy. The changes I have spoken of require us to review also some of the provisions of the Charter with a view to enabling our Organization to face up to the new international challenges with the participation of all in the interests of all. As for the question of human rights, the Kingdom of Morocco attaches great importance to those rights, which are enshrined in our constitution. However, I wish to point out - as I did in past years - that human rights have different aspects which must be respected fully. We should not focus solely on the political aspect whose importance has been established. The rights of the human being to the essential, basic human needs such as food, clothing, medicine and shelter are inalienable and fundamental, just exactly as the right to life. That is why the World Conference on Human Rights, which was convened in Vienna last year, determined that economic 17 development which makes it possible to satisfy those needs was a fundamental human right. Consequently, the affluent nations have an obligation to pay more attention to the economic interests of the developing world in order to help it reach the levels of development that will allow it to accord to those rights the priority they deserve. In this context, we expect the World Summit for Social Development, which will take place in Copenhagen next year, to define the essential needs of man the satisfaction of which would guarantee a decent life and expect the Summit to set up a plan of action to stimulate social development and economic progress in the countries of the third world. The world has entered upon a new era marked by fundamental changes in the traditional international relations which emphasized the primacy of political beliefs. In addition, the great Powers have engaged in a new race for economic interests in place of the arms race. The race that now concerns them is characterized by the strengthening of relations within great economic groupings with a view to the creation of new economic blocs. These developments will undoubtedly alter the economic and political map of the world and will, thereby, widen the gap between the developed and the developing countries. In a much more interdependent world, thanks to the new means of communication and technology, such as live television broadcasts, it has become ever more difficult to persuade the peoples of the developing countries to be content with their lot while the disparities between the affluence of the developed countries and the misery of the developing countries are constantly worsening. Therefore, it would be illogical to expect that lasting peace and security could prevail in a world wherein the overwhelming majority of people live in despair, deprivation and social misery. The rich countries should find satisfactory solutions to the economic problems of developing countries - in particular, to those related to the deterioration in terms of trade, the decline in commodity prices, external indebtedness and technological weaknesses. In April 1994, the city of Marrakech hosted the signing of various agreements under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Through these agreements, the international community established the primacy of the rule of law in international economic and trade relations and put an end to the law of the primacy of strength that prevailed in the past. The agreements, which were signed by 109 States, included a number of extremely positive elements. One of the most significant results of the Marrakech agreements was the creation of the World Trade Organization, which will come into being next year and will have competence in the areas of control and implementation. We hope that this new organization, thanks to its competences, the policies laid for it, and the programme of work designed to pursue those policies will be able to lay real foundations for international trade that would free trade from the protectionism that plagues it under many guises such as the so-called social considerations that relate to workers’ rights and environmental considerations. In the aftermath of the Second World War and the setting up of the United Nations, international relations have been characterized essentially by the movement towards the liberation of peoples from the colonial yoke, especially in Africa and Asia. Nowadays, only some enclaves remain from the colonial era. For particular reasons, those enclaves required more time for their liberation, and they are now involved in settlement processes with the agreement of the interested parties. The British colony of Hong Kong will revert to Chinese sovereignty in 1997, as will the Portuguese colony of Macau in the near future. Similarly, the status of Gibraltar is the subject of continuous discussions between Spain and the United Kingdom with a view to the return of that Territory to Spanish sovereignty. These are settlement processes that we in Morocco strongly support. As we know, some enclaves in the northern part of Morocco are still under Spanish control. These are the cities of Sebta and Melilia and the neighbouring islands. Since its accession to independence, my country has tirelessly asked Spain to return those enclaves so that we may restore our territorial integrity and put an end to this long-standing dispute. There is no doubt the ideal solution in this respect would be to follow the same procedure that was adopted in the case of each of the territories I have just mentioned, namely, dialogue, natural understanding and harking to the voice of wisdom by heeding the logic of our time and taking into account the interests of both parties. 18 We believe that the Moroccan-Spanish group proposed by His Majesty King Hassan II to reflect and consult on that question is the best framework within which it would be possible to reach a settlement that may safeguard the sovereign rights of Morocco and, at the same time, allows Spain to protect its economic interests. We are convinced that the historic ties of civilization between Morocco and Spain as well as our relations of good-neighbourliness and our fruitful cooperation in several areas will make it possible to overcome the difficulties that lie in the way of the settlement of this dispute. The freeing of relations between Morocco and Spain from the remnants of the past is a matter of significant importance in view of the fact that both countries belong to the Mediterranean region, that sensitive part of the world which should be a region of cooperation, stability and solidarity. In this context, we are convinced that the prosperity and security of Europe and particularly of its Mediterranean countries could not be fully achieved without genuine efforts to contribute to the development of the southern Mediterranean countries. We are also convinced that this will be achieved only through the eradication of the existing gap between the countries of the two sides of the Mediterranean and the establishment of a multifaceted cooperation that would be inspired by a comprehensive vision of the concept of cooperation and anchored in the will of both sides to enter into a partnership that may provide a solid foundation for the prosperity and stability of the region. Proceeding from this conviction, the Kingdom of Morocco proposed to the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe at its fourth session held in December 1993 in Rome, the convening of a ministerial meeting to address the issues of security and cooperation in the Mediterranean region in which all the Mediterranean countries as well as all other countries interested in the future of that sensitive region would participate in order to consult over the various issues and problems that face the region. We do hope that the proposal will gain the support of the countries concerned. Along with our brethren from the countries of the Arab Maghreb, Morocco has made sustained efforts aimed at securing the unity of the region and ensuring the coming to being of the institutions of such unity. However, it is no secret to anyone that the achievement of the desired unity still faces certain difficulties regardless of all that has been accomplished so far at the institutional, structural and regulatory levels. Nevertheless, it is the conviction of all concerned that the setting up of that edifice will benefit all the people of the region and will open up great vistas in the areas of development and progress. It is obvious that the pace of progress towards the achievement of the desired objectives is rather slow at the time. However, my country remains prompted by a sincere determination and by a firm will to overcome those difficulties, in the conviction that its future and that of the countries of the region depend to a great extent on the achievement of such unity and solidarity amongst them. In all this, there is the awareness that the ties of common heritage, of common history, of culture, of language and of religion bind all our peoples together. With regard to the so-called question of Western Sahara, the United Nations settlement plan has entered the final stage of implementation. The Kingdom of Morocco has cooperated sincerely with the Secretary-General, as attested to in the Secretary-General’s reports, with a view to facilitating his mission and speeding up the ongoing process. Therefore, we look forward with optimism to the holding of the referendum within the next few months. The past decade was one of the most disastrous for the African continent in economic and in social terms. The limited international effort provided to assist the continent has not yielded any improvement so far. As a matter of fact, standards of living in many sub-Saharan countries continue to worsen as the per capita income continues to decline while the growth rate of the gross national product dropped to less than 1.5 per cent at a time when the population grows at a much greater rate. Thus the overall economic situation in Africa has fallen to a level below the one recorded in the seventies. Because of such constant deterioration and the marginalization from which Africa suffers, partial and temporary solutions cannot satisfy us. Exceptional international efforts should be undertaken and drastic solutions designed to remedy to the situation. On the occasion of the holding of the historic meeting of Marrakech, in the context of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) Agreements, His Majesty the King has called upon the leaders of the 19 world to integrate the economy of Africa in the global economy and urged the elaboration of a Marshall Plan with a view to reducing poverty and alleviating the suffering of millions of human beings in our continent. As an African country, the Kingdom of Morocco continues to do its utmost in assisting sisterly countries in the sub-Saharan region by all the means at its disposal. In fact, my country channels 90 per cent of the funds it allocates to international cooperation to the assistance of sisterly African countries. During the month of April 1994, the African scene witnessed an important event, namely, the victory of democratic forces, the forces of peace and freedom, against the forces of racial discrimination. Thus, South Africa’s first free elections in which all segments of its people participated have resulted in the election of Mr. Nelson Mandela to the presidency of the Republic. The Kingdom of Morocco had earlier expressed its satisfaction at those decisive developments, which ended a half-century-long conflict and allowed South Africa, a sister country, to usher in a new era of national harmony and democracy and give it reason to look forward to a prosperous future for all its people. My country made its contribution by giving an impetus to the reconciliation process through meeting with and offering encouragement to Presidents Mandela and De Klerk, both known for their wisdom and clearsightedness. We were one of the first countries to establish diplomatic relations with the new South Africa - more than two years ago now - and we will make every effort to strengthen the basis of our cooperation with that country, which, to our great satisfaction, has taken back its rightful place within the United Nations. We have no doubt that South Africa will greatly and positively contribute to the enrichment and effectiveness of the work of our Organization and to the well-being of the entire African continent. One year after the signing in Washington of the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government Arrangements in Gaza and Jericho, between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel, we note today that the peace process in the Middle East is moving along at a steady pace, thus giving rise to some optimism for the first time in the last 50 years. In spite of the hindrances and obstacles it faces from time to time, this agreement is being effectively and practically implemented. We hope that this encouraging start will continue and will include all the occupied Palestinian territory, and that it will result in the transfer of all powers to the Palestinian National Authority to pave the way for a comprehensive solution that would grant the totality of its legitimate rights to the Palestinian people, including the creation of an independent State with Al-Quds as its capital, in accordance with the United Nations resolutions. It was only natural that the Palestinian self- government experience should face initial difficulties and experience sensitive beginnings. We hope that the States members of the international community that have followed this issue for decades and that supported the struggle of the Palestinian people throughout its different stages will not fail to grant all the necessary material aid and assistance to the Palestinian National Authority during this delicate period, in order to help it build its national institutions and its economic structures, and to ensure the success of this experience. Similarly, Jordan and Israel have signed an agreement recently in Washington. However, the advent of peace and security in that region will always depend on the achievement of a comprehensive solution, which would guarantee the recovery of Syrian and Lebanese territories, in conformity with international legality and in particular Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). The Kingdom of Morocco, convinced of the virtues of dialogue and concerted action among the parties to the Arab Israeli conflict, was one of the first to recommend and promote this approach as the ideal means for the settlement of disputes. My country strongly believes that the logic of war and violence does not lead to permanent solutions. That is why we feel a great deal of satisfaction today as we see the parties in the Middle East engaging in a constructive dialogue to achieve an agreement that would put paid to conflicts and tragedies and usher in a new era of peace, cooperation and well-being in the region’s history. In order to encourage peace efforts and to make the Arab world benefit from their dividends, Morocco will host next month, in Casablanca, an Economic Conference for the Middle East and North Africa. Highly placed government officials, and businessmen as well as financial and economic experts will participate in the Conference. This gathering will aim at setting the rules for boosting the economy and development in the two 20 regions, and at creating economic programmes based on partnership for the benefit of the countries of the two regions and their peoples. Regarding the dispute between Iran and the United Arab Emirates, we hope that the two countries, which are members of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, will resort to dialogue to resolve their dispute over the future of the islands of Abu Moussa and the Greater and the Lesser Tumbs. The historic and friendly relations between the two peoples, which allowed them to coexist under United Arab Emirates sovereignty on Abu Moussa island, should enable them to return to normal relations. Contemporary history has known few tragedies comparable to the one being experienced by the people of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have been, and still are, subjected to all kinds of collective punishments, massacres, 'ethnic cleansing', displacement, confiscation of property, destruction of places of worship and demolition of cultural monuments. The inability of the international community and of the United Nations in particular to put an end to these outrageous criminal acts and their inability to uphold the principles of international law, which is violated daily by Serbian practices, is intolerable and unacceptable. Our Organization will celebrate next year its fiftieth anniversary. The period that has elapsed since its inception has known many activities and accomplishments but also some failures and setbacks. As regards its accomplishments, one should underline its sustained action to liberate peoples from the colonial yoke and to assist them in obtaining their political independence, as well as its activities aiming at the settlement of many conflicts by peaceful means and the maintenance of international peace and security through, inter alia, peace-keeping operations. Its specialized institutions and agencies have also made considerable contributions through their great efforts in social, health and cultural matters. However, our Organization has been unable to accomplish some tasks entrusted to it by the Charter. I refer in particular to economic and development issues. No large-scale action has been taken to help developing countries in particular achieve economic development, despite the efforts and the many meetings devoted to this question. This fiftieth anniversary will take place in an international environment that is totally different from the one that followed the Second World War. Our Organization must adapt to this change by exploring the prospects of the twenty-first century, of which we are on the threshold. To this end, several ideas have been put forward with the aim of strengthening our Organization, reforming its structures and affording it the means whereby it could meet the new and increasing demands made upon it in many areas. In short, the aim is to enable the Organization to satisfy the current needs of the international community. The Secretary-General’s report 'An Agenda for Peace' appeared at the right moment to show us the appropriate means by which the organs of the United Nations might serve international peace and security. The report also introduced new ideas concerning preventive diplomacy with the aim of preventing the eruption of new conflicts and dealt with the issues of building and maintaining peace, as well as many other issues, and put forth proposals which we are sure will improve the functioning of our Organization. There is no doubt that the fiftieth anniversary celebrations will be an opportunity for many world leaders and other high officials that are rich in experience to rethink the future of our Organization in order to enable it to meet the highest aspirations of mankind in the twenty-first century: to live in peace and security, in social justice and human dignity. At the very outset I would like to congratulate you, Mr. Amara Essy, on your election to the high post of President of the General Assembly at its current session. I view this as a sign of recognition of your country’s authority in the international community. The United Nations is approaching its fiftieth anniversary, and the entire world has grown older along with it. What is the world like nowadays? Has it become better? Has it become wiser? And, most important, what will the present generation leave behind to its successors? No State, no people can be indifferent to these questions. Here in the United Nations we must find answers to them. This is particularly important for Russia. We are trying to understand what kind of world we want to live in, and exactly what kind of world we should spare no effort to build. The new Russia was born in 1991 as a democratic State. Its birth was witnessed by the entire world. For several years now we have been engaged in a tremendous, and painstaking task, the essence of which is to remove the legacy of totalitarianism and the cold war. Freedom has come to Russia. The people have obtained fundamental civil rights long denied them. Profound economic reform is in progress in Russia. A free market economy is being put into effect. Thus, each of our new success stories reinforces Russian democracy. Russia has decisively drawn a final line under the Second World War. Our forces have been withdrawn from Germany, Central Europe and the Baltic States. Of its own accord, and at great effort, Russia has removed any threat to the security of other States. Furthermore, our country, through its own efforts, has promoted the end of confrontation in Europe, setting up new security structures there, not only for a select number, the chosen but for all. The Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) should become a powerful driving force in that process. 1 We expect there to be more understanding on the part of our partners with regard to the problems of security in Russia. We count on their ability to overcome the old suspicion inherent in a world divided into blocs, suspicion that is now unjustified. Russia is undergoing changes and regaining its identity, but in every respect it remains a great Power. Russia is ready for equal cooperation within the framework of the international community, which should in turn accept an active, open Russia. We would like nuclear weapons and other kinds of weapons of mass destruction to cease to exist. Efficient control over the non-proliferation of the technologies for their production is imperative. Russia needs a world without wars and armed conflicts and without environmental calamities. We favour the development of international economic ties without discrimination. Russia stands for a world capable of combating terrorism, drug-trafficking and other types of international crime. To make such gigantic changes possible, efforts by all the Members of the United Nations will be required. There is no room for either soloists or supernumeraries. Naturally, we cannot do without new relations between the two major nuclear Powers. I am convinced that the entire world has a vital stake in the establishment of a strategic partnership between Russia and the United States. I am ready for a serious and fruitful dialogue with President Bill Clinton, who today gave an optimistic forecast of our interaction. Russia’s economic and foreign-policy priorities lie in the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), the former Republics of the Soviet Union. Russia’s ties with them are closer than the traditional relations of good-neighbourliness; we have, rather, an extraordinary blood relationship. In virtually all the CIS countries today there is a growing desire for closer cooperation and a genuine, rather than merely proclaimed, integration. Its foundation will be good will and mutual benefit. Attempts to use the contradictions between the CIS States for selfish ends are extremely short-sighted. Conflicts in a number of CIS countries threaten not only the security of our State, but also security at the regional and global levels. We are acutely interested in the active participation of the world community in settling these difficult problems. However, the main peace-keeping burden in the territory of the former Soviet Union sits is being borne by the Russian Federation. Our efforts have not been fruitless. A solid truce has already been established in Moldova. The peace process in Georgia is developing; hope of stopping the bloodshed in Nagorny Karabakh is already emerging and initial agreements on Tajikistan have also been reached. Everybody knows how difficult life is for millions of Russians in newly independent States; it is not a time for complacency. Once they were in their own home, but now they are guests - and not always welcome ones. We cannot remain indifferent to the fate of our countrymen. I an not referring to special rights or privileges. But the people in Russia will not understand if I do not state here and now that the democratic States have to prove through their actions that guaranteeing human rights is indeed the cornerstone of their foreign policy. And in this area neither a selective approach nor double standards are permissible. Two years ago the General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the rights of national minorities. At this session we propose to come to an agreement on the principles of that Declaration being embodied in the legislation of all United Nations Member States. Russia makes no distinction between settling its problems and the problems of others. That is why we particularly highly value what is done within the United Nations. The world is now at a crossroads. The tragedy of the struggle of two opposing blocs is finally over. The delicate balance based on power, fear and mutual intimidation has disappeared for ever. But the world is still not stable. The changes that are taking place entail not only hopes for a better future, but also profound anxieties. It is not only Russia that is trying to respond to the emerging challenges. To a certain degree, the united Germany, Japan, the United States and other countries of the West face the same problem. The same applies equally to many countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America. 2 The fundamental changes in international relations are accompanied by the emergence of new problems. More and more countries see strengthening the effectiveness of inter-State structures as the solution. At the same time, this does not always prevent an increase in the activity of those who hold separatist and nationalist aspirations. A veritable floodgate of regional and local conflicts, national, tribal and religious enmity and economic, social and political confrontations has been opened wide. The bleeding wound in Bosnia has not healed. It is a tragic paradox that in the wake of the cold war in Europe hotbeds of war have flared up there anew. The unprecedented tragedy in Rwanda resounds painfully in the hearts of all people. This has proved to be a defeat for us all. But let us look around. Are there not other parts of the world where more refined and civilized unlawful actions are being taken against national and cultural minorities? Are their rights and their security not threatened? Have racism and anti-Semitism disappeared? Is there no longer any discrimination against those who are categorized as non-indigenous? When aggressive nationalism is made into State policy it is a grave danger for all mankind. These problems are all the more urgent today because the threat of local conflicts has not waned. Each of these conflicts could cause a veritable avalanche of geopolitical changes all over the world. The cold war is over, but its material infrastructure - the mountains of arms and the military-industrial complexes of the developed countries - still remain. The spread of nuclear weapons could make them into instruments of terror. Huge amounts of weapons have been dumped onto international markets. Unfortunately, vested interests frequently prevail over the awareness of the danger implicit in this process. In fact, this is nothing but an arms race that has simply been transferred to the developing countries through the market. The worsening ecological crisis and the proliferation of AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) and other dangerous diseases are also realities at the close of this twentieth century. The lessons of history can be learned only with great difficulty. Obsession with the idea of supremacy is extremely dangerous. The pathological failure to accept something different has time and again resulted in numerous ethnic and religious problems and conflicts. The fear of open political territory wind up once again with a 'cordon sanitaire' or 'iron curtain'. Let us be honest: equality, partnership, mutual benefit and cooperation still remain, to a large extent, words used to cover State egotism. Such a situation indicates an urgent need to develop a solid system of security on the basis of principles and mechanisms of cooperation on the part of everyone, and a need for the reform of international institutions. Such a system should be in keeping with the new conditions that now prevail and should function under the auspices of the United Nations. As a specific contribution towards the establishment of such a system, I would propose the following measures. First, we must speed up the negotiations on the conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty. Russia advocates the signing of this treaty next year, when we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. We should also give thought to further steps to limit Russian and American strategic nuclear weapons in order to make it possible eventually to renounce the inherited 'balance of terror' based on mutual nuclear deterrence. Secondly, we must extend non-proliferation measures to cover weapons of mass destruction. Next spring, when the Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons takes place, it is essential to adopt a decision to the effect that the treaty should be open-ended and of unlimited duration. No one has the right to deny this. In this context, we believe that the non-nuclear-weapon States will need to be given additional and more precise security assurances. We propose the holding in the near future of a special meeting of the Security Council, at the Foreign Minister level, to coordinate and adopt a new resolution on so-called 'positive' security assurances. Thirdly, we should launch a multilateral debate on the issues with regard to the regulation of the international traffic in weaponry and military equipment. Moreover, there is an urgent need for all nuclear-weapon States to participate in the process of the control and 3 limitation of nuclear weapons. We propose that a treaty on nuclear security and strategic stability be elaborated by the five nuclear-weapon States. Such a treaty could provide for cessation of the production of fissionable materials for military purposes, for prohibition of the recycling of fissionable materials for weapons purposes and for further elimination of nuclear weapons and the reduction of their means of delivery. Fourthly, it would be advisable to open discussions on regional programmes to strengthen peace and security. Regional security systems are being formed even now: I am thinking particularly of the treaty on collective security between the members of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) of the former Soviet Union. We believe that at the present stage that the United Nations could direct its efforts towards coordinating the process of building up regional security systems. Finally, the experience of recent years demonstrates that the renunciation of the arms race is a complicated and highly expensive process. Conversion of the military industry gives rise to extremely difficult economic and social problems that have to be dealt with, particularly as they relate to the elimination of chemical and bacteriological weapons. In this context, it is important to pool the efforts of the international community. Such cooperation among States would help to enhance the level of mutual trust. In 1996, it might be possible to hold a conference, under the auspices of the United Nations, on international cooperation in the field of conversion. Implementation of these measures will enable us to substantially stabilize the situation in the world. However, from the long-term point of view, these measures will not be sufficient. The former purely military understanding of the concept of 'security' has today become obsolete. The range of problems faced by mankind is much wider than it was. The modern definition of security is inseparable from the notion of stable development. The world is urgently in need of a strategy for the twenty-first century - a strategy of mutual responsibility. The most important points of reference for such a strategy could be defined as follows: - Stable economic and social development, not only for individual regions and States but, indeed, for the entire planet as a single entity. People themselves must assume the responsibility of carrying out this immense task; - The renunciation of diktat by the powerful vis-à-vis the weak. Any country, whether large or small, should be aware of its responsibility for the maintenance of order based on law and morality; - The unconditional recognition of human rights, including the rights of national minorities. In view of the great diversity of cultures, traditions and the historical experience of countries and peoples, fundamental human rights are a universal value and we cannot permit them to be devalued; - Strengthening the ecological security of mankind. The world is now facing a most serious crisis because of the deficit of resources, deterioration of the natural environment, and many other negative trends. Common sense and the instinct for survival tell us to stop exploiting our depleting resources to the detriment of nature, society and mankind. Russia supports the programme on Global education and observation to preserve the environment. Moreover, this programme is entirely consistent with the strategy of shared responsibility. We intend to participate actively in its implementation. At the same time, I should like to emphasize that only a profound understanding, on the part of each participant in international cooperation, of his or her individual responsibility can engender a common sense of responsibility for the world situation. To paraphrase a well known expression we could say that the United Nations is a good idea whose time has finally come. I should like in particular to note the great personal contribution of the United Nations Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to the cause of advocating peace and settling regional conflicts. If the United Nations is to achieve maximum effectiveness in the twenty-first century, it must undergo a well-thought-out reform. Obviously, changes will be required both at Headquarters and in the functioning of the specialized agencies. Also, it will be impossible to avoid changes in 4 the Security Council, which should remain sufficiently compact and an effective functioning body. This is especially important because, according to the Charter, the Security Council bears primary responsibility for supporting and maintaining world peace and security. We have to strike a new balance of law, morality and force in world politics. The United Nations could play a decisive role in these efforts in accordance with the Charter. Russia stands ready, as provided in Article 43 of the Charter, to enter into an agreement with the Security Council to make available national military contingents for United Nations operations. If a sufficient number of other States follows this lead, then it could be possible to go ahead with the realization of the concept of United Nations stand-by forces. The Military Staff Committee has already been formally in existence for several decades. According to the Charter its function is 'to advise and assist the Security Council on all questions relating to the Security Council’s military requirements'. Let them finally do just that. The pertinent task now will be to work out a strategy of peace-keeping, conflict and crisis prevention and, if necessary, operations on peace enforcement. Through specific actions, Russia has shown support for United Nations efforts aimed at setting up efficient mechanisms of response to humanitarian emergencies. We stand ready to cooperate with all countries anxious to reinforce the capability of the world community to produce a rapid humanitarian response. Because the problems we are increasingly encountering are multifaceted, they require adequate solutions. The question is not about who should enjoy more rights - the United Nations, the regional structures or States. The future world system can be truly durable only if it is possible to find efficient and effective mechanisms to address problems at all levels - national, regional and global. Sharing responsibility will make it possible for the United Nations to remain flexible and a pragmatic and effective structure and enable it to focus its efforts on the solution of the genuinely key problems faced by mankind. Russia believes that these are all fundamental issues that have a direct bearing on the fate of the world community. Both the authority of the United Nations and the future of world politics as a whole will depend on the way these issues are dealt with. People have always sought stability, happiness and prosperity. But history provides evidence of the fact that these goals cannot be achieved with the help of brute force alone. Once again we become acutely aware of this fact now that we are approaching a sacred date for mankind: the fiftieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War and the restoration of peace. Let us remember with gratitude those who gave their lives for this great victory. Let 1995 become the universal year of commemoration of the victims of the Second World War. For the sake of those living and those who have not yet been born, we must preserve peace and establish stability on our planet. Mankind should finally feel that it is at home, a home which is both kind and reliable. Our civilization has always been varied. It is precisely in the variety of cultures, traditions and values that the possibility of development is basically found. At this time, we have reached a stage when different interests and aspirations of peoples can be achieved only through cooperation among them. The world community should make every possible effort to ensure that its policies are embodied in the new thinking about the influence of States, national pride and patriotism. The United Nations is a child of the world. Fifty years ago when the Second World War was in progress, it became abundantly clear that the future of mankind is to be found in the realm of cooperation and tolerance rather than aggression and hatred. Cooperation and tolerance are prerequisites for the next century. This is the most important condition for there to be a worthy future for our planet. This is a unique opportunity that has been given to the human race. I believe that the United Nations, in fulfilment of its general responsibility, will not allow us to pass it up, and I hope that the great dream of peace to which all peoples and States aspire to will take its due place in the life of our planet. At the outset I wish to seize this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his election as the President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I am confident that he will guide our deliberations with wisdom and skill. Permit me also to rejoice with the people of South Africa, who have at long last eradicated apartheid and created a plural society in which all citizens of South Africa shall live in harmony, freedom and equality, irrespective of their ethnic, religious or class backgrounds. Their victory is a victory of good over evil and a tribute to the concept of unity in diversity, as well as a unique example of the concerted, unremitting and successful struggle of humanity against a pernicious assault on human dignity and nobility. We are also happy to note that in the Middle East age- old adversaries have come close enough to resolve some of the most intractable problems of our time by negotiations based on understanding and the accommodation of the interests of all parties. We welcome the agreements reached between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), as well as subsequent agreements reached between Israel and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. We hope that this initial move, whose momentum must be maintained, will augur well for a comprehensive, permanent and enduring peace in the region as a whole. We have now entered a new era of renewed hope. As the United Nations approaches its golden jubilee, it has become increasingly evident that the majority of the nations and peoples of the world believe that the world Organization is essential and are reposing renewed hope and confidence in it. In the aftermath of the cold war, we are witnessing a transition towards a new pattern of international relations. With the uncertainty of the historical process that is establishing a new world order, the United Nations has once again become the eminently relevant, perhaps even the indispensable, Organization that its founding fathers wished it to be. The emerging new international system and the universality of the membership of the United Nations, as well as the abundant good will it has garnered, offer it the unique opportunity not only to establish new guidelines to address international challenges but to ensure that the coming new world will be permeated with the values of collective security, peace, democracy, social justice and cooperation for mutual benefit. This is also a favourable time for the United Nations to raise global awareness, fashion a common world outlook, probe new frontiers and create new standards, particularly in the realms of sustainable and equitable global development; conflict prevention, management and resolution; human and democratic rights; and social justice. Those great tasks, my delegation is convinced, will inevitably require commensurate changes in the structure and functional modalities of the United Nations system itself, if it is to cope with the challenges of the new international order. The institutions and agencies that reflected the exigencies of the last half-century must be modified or yield to new ones that mirror not only the optimism and needs of the present but also the hopes and aspirations of the future. The international system must turn — obviously, at a gradual and measured pace — towards a fairer and more equitable representation of its constituencies in all the organs of the system, and especially in the Security Council. This may indeed be the most opportune time to review structural issues with new vision and boldness, the ultimate purpose being to instil and build into the system a dynamism that will enable it to respond and adjust promptly to changing global realities. 20 General Assembly 22nd meeting Furthermore, we feel that the United Nations must place significant emphasis on the creation of a reliable early warning system that would enable it to avert disasters and conflicts. An active, rather than a reactive, role on the part of the United Nations can go a long way towards reducing, if not preventing, human suffering and towards mitigating disasters and conflicts at reduced cost to the international community. Secondly, all available evidence on the structure of the United Nations emphasizes the need to restructure it on the basis of equilibrium between the forces of centralization and decentralization. Certain problems, such as the environment, population and disarmament, may necessitate coordinated international action and centralized authority. Others, including the breakdown of political systems and regional inter-State conflicts may be better and more correctly understood and solved by regional actors, institutions and approaches. There is thus an imperative to set in motion a dynamic arrangement balancing centralization and decentralization to create the desired juridical basis for a new world order underpinned by a political culture of peace, justice, economic well-being and a healthy environment. Playing such a catalytic role should be the major preoccupation of the United Nations. Only such an environment can make the Organization an effective actor that protects and promotes peace, development and human rights. The situation in the Horn of Africa is far from satisfactory, although it may be improving day by day. I must perhaps emphasize here that the impoverishment that stalks the region as a whole is largely man-made and cannot be attributed to the vicissitudes of nature, as is often done. Decades of war and civil strife have sapped the energy, productive capacity and problem-solving mechanisms of the populations, leaving them easily susceptible to even minor imbalances in rainfall patterns and natural calamities. Hence, international emergency assistance and, even more, development assistance will remain vital for years to come in overcoming the consequences of decades of war and turmoil. We in the Government of Eritrea, along with our regional partners, realize that reliable and sustainable economic development will lie in effective regional cooperation hinging on durable peace and stability. It is in this spirit that we and our partners are prepared to pool our resources to secure regional peace through mechanisms of close consultation and coordination for conflict prevention and resolution, and by broadening areas of economic interaction and cooperation. It is against this backdrop, and within the framework of a regional approach, that we have attempted to address the quest for collective security in our region. In Somalia the countries of the region, under the chairmanship of President Melles Zenawi of Ethiopia, have done much to restore normalcy to the country by bringing the warring factions to the negotiating table. This regional effort has complemented and acted as a vital linkage to international intervention at a number of crucial junctures. In this connection, we believe that this is an auspicious moment for the United Nations to decide to focus in the period ahead only on the provision of assistance for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the devastated country of Somalia. The opinion advanced by some in the last few days that the extension of the mandate of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) is vital for and will enhance political reconciliation is, we are convinced, seriously flawed. Indeed, all evidence from the country indicates that such action is likely to complicate or delay the process. On the other hand, the Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD) should take upon itself, and be encouraged to continue, the political reconciliation it has facilitated in the past. In the Sudan, the countries of the region have applied the same regional approach and have proposed different frameworks of conflict resolution to facilitate a comprehensive political settlement that takes into account the best interests and welfare of both sides. Here, too, the international community should encourage and support the regional efforts undertaken under the auspices of IGADD. Some of the major problems that have existed for many years are still with us and, indeed, there are now new ones. Thus, the crisis in the former Yugoslavia does not appear to be any nearer to solution. The events in Rwanda are a tragic reminder of human folly and have etched an indelible mark on the collective conscience of humanity. These events no doubt reinforce the necessity for preventive measures and perhaps the need to make a fresh assessment of the conventional limitations of the United Nations in peace-keeping. The Government and people of Botswana salute your elevation to the Presidency of the forty-ninth session of the Assembly. Your election by acclamation is a fitting tribute not only to your personal distinction but also to the African continent, on whose soil you were bred and nurtured. It goes without saying, therefore, that the confidence we repose in you as you guide our deliberations is beyond measure. The Secretary-General’s legendary tenacity of purpose at the helm of our Organization has continued to serve us very well indeed. He remains undaunted by the complexities of the problems he faces as the world’s chief diplomat and peacemaker in an era marred by the continuing absence of peace. We salute him and his staff of dedicated international civil servants. Let me also pay a deserved tribute to our dear brother, last year’s President, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, whose tenure of office was most effective, productive and creative. We wish him a happy, hard-earned retirement from the service of our General Assembly. The new world order remains a misnomer. Misery and wretchedness are the order of the day in many parts of the world. The post-cold war era was to be the era of democratization, peace and development, so we hoped. Yes, democratization has taken root in many parts of the world, including our own continent, Africa. That is to be celebrated, and should be celebrated. Unfortunately, the energies and resources that the international community could be deploying to help buttress and nurture emerging democracies have to be expended on the search for solutions to a multiplicity of intractable civil wars. Tragically, some of these civil wars show no sign of amenability to solutions. They have become perennial; so is the United Nations mission to mitigate them. This places the United Nations in a terrible dilemma, both moral and material. Unfortunately, there is very little choice for our Organization. It would be absolutely unconscionable to abandon a Bosnia or a Somalia to its own wretched devices. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that the United Nations peacekeeping commitments are threatening to overwhelm the Organization’s capacities. Financial resources to sustain these commitments may soon dry up, if indeed they are available, in tandem with the drying up of support for peace-keeping generally, particularly among the big contributors. The past year has been a year of mixed blessings for Africa. The continent won a major victory with the liberation of South Africa from the shackles of apartheid and racism. Three-and-a-half centuries of white minority domination have ended, and the construction of a new non-racial society has begun in earnest in South Africa. We heartily congratulate all the people of South Africa, in their racial and cultural diversity, on the wisdom and courage they have shown in coming to terms with their common destiny. We welcome the new South Africa into our midst with open arms. Southern Africa, the erstwhile cockpit of conflict, has suddenly found salvation and begun the process of reconstruction and regional cooperation and integration. Since peace and stability are universal prerequisites for orderly economic and social development, both of which we have begun to savour in southern Africa, there is every reason why we should be excited about the future of our region. With the holding of multiparty elections in the sister Republic of Mozambique, the process of democratization in the region will have come closer than ever before to culmination. Increasingly, the region is being guided in the ordering of its political affairs by a set of common democratic values. Through the Southern African Development Community’s economic fraternity, mechanisms are being developed to promote regional approaches to the protection of human rights and the safeguarding of the democratic milieu that the region has laboured so hard and shed so much blood to bring about. As an example, I would mention the case of Lesotho, about which members will have heard. Recently, when democracy was placed in danger there, the region, through the good offices of three Presidents of southern African countries - Zimbabwe, South Africa and Botswana - sprang into action to engage the Basotho leaders in a dialogue, which happily culminated in the cherished Lesotho democracy being saved without a shot 30 being fired. It was regional conflict-resolution and diplomacy at their very best. Yet we remain troubled and pained by the fact that not all is well in other parts of the African continent by any stretch of the imagination. Our south western sister Republic of Angola has never had a moment of tranquillity, peace or stability ever since it attained its independence 19 years ago. Blood has continued to flow in that tortured country in ever-increasing profusion, even as we are told the Lusaka talks are on the verge of a successful conclusion. This is the precious blood of innocent Angolans shed needlessly because the multiparty democracy demanded by UNITA and its supporters was won three years ago, only to be subjected to another round of brutal civil war. We remain hopeful, however, that the marathon talks in Lusaka, capital of the Republic of Zambia, will produce an agreement for the parties to implement without reservation. The Somali tragedy remains intractable. The presence in the fractured country of 18,000 United Nations peace- keeping troops, including Botswanans, has not made much of a difference in the restoration of peace and tranquillity to the Somali people. Now we are faced with a threat to abandon the country to its fate. The international community has every reason to be frustrated and exasperated by what looks like a total absence of any intention on the part of the warring Somali factions to reconcile and give their nation a chance to drag itself out of the quagmire of civil war. We understand this frustration and exasperation, and yet we would find it absolutely unconscionable for the United Nations simply to uproot itself from Somalia when it is abundantly clear that such a course of action would have catastrophic consequences. The decision to withdraw the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II) must be carefully weighed against the obvious consequences of the vacuum it will create. There is also Liberia, whose agony clearly knows no limit. The madness that is being displayed by the warring factions there is surely beyond comprehension. Is the newly intensified fighting which has caused another exodus of refugees to neighbouring countries and wasted more innocent lives the way to thank the monitoring Group of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOMOG) and the international community for the cost in lives and material they have suffered and incurred in an attempt to save Liberia from self-destruction? The first world is already showing signs of extreme weariness about the cost of peace-keeping. Soon even ECOMOG may run out of the means and the will to persist in its seemingly impossible mission to save Liberia from itself. And as long as Liberia is in the state in which it is there is the certainty that peace in the region at large will be and remain imperilled. Although the carnage has ended in Rwanda, the tragedy that has befallen its people has not. The Rwandese nation cannot reconcile so long as chunks of it are languishing and dying in refugee camps in foreign lands. Rwanda cannot endure any more cycles of civil war and genocidal massacres. The tens or hundreds of thousands of refugees encamped at present in the neighbouring countries must be helped to return to their homeland lest out of the frustrations of exile in their squalid refugee camps they ignite another cycle of genocide. On the perennial question of Western Sahara, Botswana shares the view that it is taking far too long to hold a referendum in the Territory to allow the Sahraoui people to decide their future. The Territory cannot and must not be allowed to mark time forever in a limbo of uncertainty as if the fulfillment of the aspirations of its people can be delayed until their final submission. Beyond the African continent, the agony of Bosnia and Herzegovina has continued to outrage the conscience of mankind. The senseless bloodletting in that tormented region of Europe remains stubbornly impervious to solution. Peace plan after peace plan has failed to impress one side or the other, and the result is that the patience of the international community, which has to deploy enormous resources to maintain a massive peace-keeping presence in the area, is being tested beyond endurance. The question we ask is: How can the perpetrators of that cruel conflict ever make sense out of it? We appeal to them to stop the carnage. Meanwhile, we urge the International Tribunal set up to bring to justice the authors and perpetrators of that barbarous war to spare no effort in doing so. We hope that in the Caribbean, the people of Haiti will take advantage of the massive assistance they are receiving from the international community to normalize the situation in their country. They have a golden opportunity to do so and to resume the journey they started three years ago towards a democratic future. There may be no second - or third - chance. 31 Botswana believes that the time has come for Cuba and the United States to negotiate an amicable end to their protracted estrangement. Intractable problems all over the world, are being resolved through negotiations, and we do not believe that the cold war between Cuba and the United States is beyond resolution by negotiation. Botswana values the friendship of both countries and cherishes the hope that soon there will be peace and reconciliation between the two neighbours. The Middle East has broken out of the straitjacket of no war- no peace. We hail the agreement clinched last year between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the rapprochement between Israel and Jordan symbolized by the signing of the Washington Declaration to bring to an end the state of war between the two countries, and we urge that no stone be left unturned in the quest for a comprehensive solution to the problems of that very important area of the world. Unfortunately, the sound of the drums of war in the Gulf area are piercing our ears once again. We hope that this time the parties involved in the war dance are merely trying to exorcise the demons of the politics of brinkmanship, without any intention whatsoever of bringing world peace to the brink and beyond. The arbitrary division of the island of Cyprus remains unrepaired. We urge the parties to reintensify their search for a mutually acceptable dispensation that will make possible the reunification of the island and its people. The same applies to the two Koreas. The people of the North and South are Koreans in every sense and soon they must realize that, like the people of South Africa, who have just triumphed over racial division, they too can triumph if they try harder, over ideological division. We live in the age of dialogue and negotiation, the age of reconciliation and forgiveness. No one will be excused for refusing to negotiate an end to a disagreement. Over the past two decades my country has experienced an unprecedented period of economic growth. Between 1970 and 1992 Botswana achieved an annual real growth rate of 12 per cent per year in gross domestic product. After being viewed as one of the world’s poorest countries, with a per capita income estimated at $70, Botswana suddenly became Africa’s success story, a success born out of a stable, democratic political system and a free-market economy. Our democratic system is now so entrenched that it has become our nation’s second nature. The happy result is that Botswana is free from any ethnic or tribal conflict. Regrettably, we have not been spared the wrath of the world recession and have thus experienced dramatic declines in growth rates. Our economic growth, heavily influenced by the development of minerals, particularly diamonds, has experienced adverse effects arising from the fall in the price of diamonds. Our country has entered the most challenging period since independence. Africa as a whole is engaged, in one form or another, in economic and political reforms that need the support and cooperation of the donor community and the multilateral financial institutions. Poverty is an underlying factor of underdevelopment that many African countries have to contend with today. Regrettably, implementation of the structural adjustment programme, welcome as it is in the restructuring of African economies, has in many instances worsened the social conditions of the poor in the short term. This is why Botswana looks forward to the forthcoming World Summit on Social Development, where we will have the opportunity to address these anomalies in a very serious manner. Botswana is encouraged by the ongoing process of reform and revitalization of the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields. The adoption of General Assembly resolution 48/162 has brought about unprecedented changes in the working of the United Nations system, at the level both of the Economic and Social Council and of the Second Committee of the General Assembly; we welcome all of this. It is our hope that these changes will bring about efficiency and effectiveness in addressing the needs and concerns of developing countries at the policy-making and operational levels. With regard to reform of the Security Council, I can do no better than quote the African Common Position Paper on United Nations Reforms: 'The expansion and equitable representation in the Security Council has become imperative because of the need to democratize and make the Council more 32 efficient and transparent. In this era, the democracy that is being preached at national level should pervade the international system. It is thus necessary to review both the composition and the decision-making process of the Council, in line with the above principles, and taking into account the relationship between the Council and the General Assembly. In implementing these ideals, it is necessary to bear in mind the need for equitable geographical representation, which emphasizes increased permanent membership for developing countries, particularly in Africa.' We are due to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of this Organization. The United Nations has amply vindicated its existence. It survived the distractions and ravages of the cold war with its sense of purpose relatively intact. Botswana’s fidelity to the purposes and principles of the Organization’s Charter remains unstinting. It is therefore our cherished hope that the next century will usher in an environment in which the Organization will thrive in the pursuit of these purposes and principles. It is a great honour for me, as President of Colombia, to speak in the General Assembly, which, as the Organization reaches the fiftieth anniversary of its establishment, remains the principal forum for the discussion of topics of concern to mankind and for the search for peaceful solutions to its distressing problems. Fifty years ago, when the United Nations system was created, the world hoped that the spectre of war was finally being laid to rest. But lack of understanding between nations, ideological fanaticism and the politics of force led to the world’s polarization into two antagonistic blocs. For many years, the cold war put on ice the hopes held at the beginning for developing a world-wide system of coexistence. Such coexistence reappears today when we see a black person at the helm of South Africa; when we see Palestinians and Jews discussing fruit groves in the hills of the Golan; and when we see all Berliners drinking good Colombian coffee on the spot where the wall of infamy once stood. Before the end of this century, we shall have to strive to resolve peacefully the most important conflict to outlive the cold war: the conflict with the brotherly Republic of Cuba. We now have the happy opportunity of reviving the spirit of the San Francisco Charter and of reinitiating the deferred task of building a new world system based on solidarity, respect for the self-determination of peoples and the real search for better living conditions for all - as was stated a few years ago before the General Assembly, by a distinguished Colombian, Indalecio Liévano Aguirre, in his capacity as its President. The history of the 1990s must not be one more record of the frustration of our aspirations to peace, well- being and justice. Our objective can be nothing less than the human person. Our actions must be directed towards the struggle against poverty and for the attainment of social justice. Our commitment is to make the arbitrary use of power and abuses of human rights things of the past. But this task - this vital task - is not free of threats. Neoprotectionism threatens the free-trade prospects of developing countries. It is true that tariff protectionism has come to an end, but a new and dangerous form of protectionism is now emerging: non-tariff protectionism: barriers to the export of plants and vegetables, customs barriers, quotas, anti-dumping clauses, social clauses, the rationale of 'reasons of State', and fears of losing elections. We developing countries are no longer struggling against the barbed wire of hostile tariff barriers: we are struggling against an army of invisible enemies moved by the most diverse interests and systematically opposed to the rhetorical aspiration to free trade - an aspiration that would seem to have something in common with our feelings about paradise: we all want to get there, but not quite yet. Impoverishment is another threat. Granted, we are all committed to the openness of our economies, but that must not mean that we can ignore the need to manage the obvious social costs. Unemployment, the postponement of social investment programmes and neglect of the living conditions of the rural population can ultimately delegitimize in vast regions of the world - this, at least, is true of Latin America - the efforts made over many years to democratize our political systems. The only thing more serious than poverty is impoverishment, and it is beginning to make itself felt in many parts of the world. Either we leaders renew our commitment to the people or the social costs of economic change will in the end destroy our achievements in political consolidation. Finally, there is the threat of the formation of blocs. The development of economic blocs runs counter to the 6 idea of a world based on the democratic rules of free trade for all on an equal footing. What is at stake today is not the exchange of goods and services but rather the exchange of the means necessary to produce those goods and services. Selective appropriation of the means of production puts those of us in the developing countries in the worst of worlds. We do not have the means of production nor do we have fair access to them, but we do have the arduous responsibility of competing on an equal footing with the world’s most industrialized countries. It is not a matter of repeating the third-world litany of complaints and demands. The point here is to define new rules that can enable us to gain access to technology and to finance our infrastructures on favourable terms, that can enable us to reach acceptable levels of competitiveness, that can enable us to break with dependency on the cartels of service companies and to buy market outlets in a world where what counts and what is important is not producing, but selling. That aspiration to develop new conditions that can enable us to play a vital role within the new spectrum of world forces must take the shape of a new development model for our countries, an alternative model which I should like to discuss with you this afternoon in this Hall. I am speaking of an alternative model that will be an alternative to the protectionist system of the 1960s, for the globalization of the economy requires not only open and competitive economies but an alternative to the neoliberalism that irresponsibly leaves it to the market to correct all imbalances. I am speaking of an alternative to the old assistance populism, for there must be social change based on economic criteria, and for an alternative to fierce capitalism, which sets up the rule of every man for himself as a form of social selectionism. I am speaking of an alternative to the blind criteria of public interventionism as well as an alternative to attempts to sell out the State to the highest self-interested bidders, to the Government abandoning its own responsibilities with regard to the unprotected masses. I am speaking of an alternative to anachronistic concepts of representative democracy but also of an alternative for meeting attempts to reduce the free play of democracy to sterile confrontation between private interests. The objective of this alternative model, the model of the South, should be the establishment of a new and more productive citizen in the economy, a citizen who participates to a greater degree in politics and who is more supportive in the social sphere. Words and phrases like 'social investment', 'good governmen t' , 'ag r i cu l tu ra l deve lopmen t' , 'competitiveness', 'harmonization' and 'gradualness' are all part of a new alternative vocabulary that will enable us to speak the language of a new identity, of our own identity as countries seeking our own way. The new model of development, if it is to be genuine and not simply an abstraction, must take into account some basic elements. First, it must allow for the modernization of our productive structures. We gain nothing if we continue to open markets when we have nothing to sell, because we produce nothing or very little. Modernization goes hand in hand with the development of an adequate infrastructure of transportation and communications and the optimum use of energy sources. We must develop new conditions of productivity, especially in the field of technology, and adopt more efficient and environmentally sustainable production processes. The world today is not divided between the haves and the have-nots but, rather, between those who know and those who do not, and we, the developing countries, are among those who lack knowledge. We must buy, develop and assimilate new technologies. Secondly, there is the concept of social solidarity. Our greatest challenge in this sphere is to give legitimacy to a new economic system through real social- development proposals. Investing in the human being is the best business. Investment in health, education and housing is highly profitable, not only in social terms but - especially - in economic terms. Thirdly, in addressing those two great revolutions of competitiveness and solidarity it is necessary to change the ideas of those who today act as agents of the economic process. What should the role of Government be? Above and beyond the dilemma of privatization or nationalization, the dilemma of whether or not to reduce the size of 7 Government, it is imperative that Government work, and that it do so honestly. Good governance must be our goal in reforming Government. Good Government means building a new type of Government, one that promotes efficiency. It means the training of technically skilled bureaucracies. It means transparency and the streamlining of administrative procedures in such a way that the roots of corruption are extirpated. It means administrative decentralization and citizen participation, and it means the organizing of civil society on bases other than the old contradictions between capital and labour. Fourthly, and lastly, we must bear in mind that this process is occurring in the context of the globalization of the world economy and of interindependence among peoples. The principal problems affecting every country today are no longer merely national in nature; they are global, and for that reason they require the coordinated action of all nations. The new cooperation the international community requires is based on adjusting domestic policies to global objectives within a framework of respect for the sovereignty of States, the principles of international law and domestic legislation. Only if we can attain a new concept of cooperation will we avoid the pitfall of interventionism, which threatens to make its way through the open door of interdependence and globalization. Cooperation, as an alternative to intervention, is the route that can ensure for the community of nations the fulfilment of its aspirations for peace and stability. I come from Colombia, a country that respects international law and the principles that ensure peaceful coexistence; a country that has placed its faith in Latin American and Caribbean integration; a country with a dynamic Constitution and an economy sound as few others in Latin America; a country that is moving forward thanks to the sacrifices and steadfast labour of its people, creative people avid for progress and imbued with a sense of the magic of life about which García Márques, our Nobel laureate, has written; a country searching for peace because it so loves life. The times we are now living in are times of crisis, but also of opportunities. In Colombia we have had to learn to live with terrible difficulties, always inspired by the biblical invitation to maintain a vision as a people in order to prevail as a nation. I know that some here must have asked themselves why I have not referred in this speech to the problem with which my country is everywhere associated: the problem of drug trafficking. I have not done so because in Colombia we believe that we are entitled to be recognized by other, positive factors: those that identify us as an honest, hard-working people that offers respect to friendly countries and expects respect in return. Of course, we have struggled and will continue to struggle out of conviction, while paying a high price to fight the scourge of mankind that is drug trafficking. But I must confess that we sometimes feel alone in this task. We feel alone when we see the drug consumption rates increase in countries that request our help to defeat a problem whose origins and consequences concern all of us. We feel alone, very much alone, when we see mayors who are avowed chronic drug users elected by popular vote. We feel alone when, after extensive efforts to eradicate illicit crops, the doors are closed to us when it comes to selling exactly those products that we have managed to cultivate, with great effort, as alternative crops. Therefore, in the midst of this lonely struggle that has left many victims dead in the fields, a struggle of which I count myself a fortunate survivor, what many of us want is for Colombia to be looked at from a different perspective - that it be recognized for the soundness of its economy, that Colombia be taken into account when it comes to investment decisions. We want those present here to get to know the Colombian people - my people. We want visitors to see our country so that many more people the world over will be as much in love with my country as are those of us who were born, who live and who will die in that privileged corner of Latin America - Colombia. On behalf of the Nigerian delegation, I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your election is a tribute not only to you personally and to your great country, but to Africa as a whole. As a representative of Côte d’Ivoire, a country with which Nigeria enjoys excellent and brotherly relations, you have our full confidence in your ability to successfully discharge the responsibilities of your high office. I wish to express our sincere appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana, for the admirable and effective manner in which he conducted the business of the forty-eighth session. Let me also commend our esteemed Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the purposeful manner in which he has discharged the duties of his office. My Government heartily welcomes South Africa back to the General Assembly. For decades, the policy of apartheid kept that great country from participating in the work of the Assembly. Happily, apartheid has now been consigned to history. We salute all those who identified with, and contributed to, the long struggle to eradicate apartheid and racism in South Africa. A special tribute must be paid to our brothers and sisters in South Africa who were the direct victims of that evil system and who led the struggle for its eradication. We commend the vision and statesmanship of President Nelson Mandela for his effective leadership in managing so skilfully the transition of a once-divided society to a united, non-racial, democratic nation. We commend the courage and the untiring efforts of his Government and the entire people of South Africa to heal the wounds of the past and launch their country on the path of economic growth and prosperity on a foundation of justice and equity for all its citizens. We are confident 11 that the new South Africa will contribute positively to the work of the United Nations. In the last few years we have witnessed rapid and profound changes on the international scene. Not only have complex challenges arisen, but also new opportunities for the United Nations to redouble its efforts and contributions to the quest for peace and security and to build a world characterized by cooperation and an international community nurtured by a common concern for humanity. It is a matter of serious concern that the peaceful world expected to be ushered in by the end of the cold war has not materialized. The world continues to face some of the worst forms of conflict and new threats to international peace and security. Violent conflicts arising from resurgent nationalism and religious intolerance between and within States have proliferated. The unresolved situations in Rwanda, Liberia, Somalia, Afghanistan, Cambodia, parts of the former Yugoslavia and parts of the former Soviet Union have caused wanton loss of life and destruction to property and have given rise to humanitarian crises of immense proportions. We must find early and lasting solutions to these conflicts, as they constitute continuing threats to regional stability and to world peace. Against this backdrop, the United Nations, as the focal point of international cooperation, should seek to redefine its role and establish new structures and mechanisms that can respond effectively to the challenges of crisis management and conflict resolution. The United Nations must retain its primary responsibility for taking the lead in addressing these problems. The Secretary-General’s Agenda for Peace provides a novel and imaginative framework towards this end. In the emerging world order Africa must not continue to remain a continent beset with crises and dependent on others for resolution of its internal conflicts. In realization of this, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) established in 1993 a Central Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Resolution and Management. However, it is evident that the OAU’s capacity to effectively mobilize the required financial and logistic resources for this purpose is severely limited. There is, therefore, a necessity for the international community and the United Nations to encourage, through increased financial and logistic support, Africa’s efforts at peaceful settlements of disputes through regional and other arrangements, in accordance with the United Nations Charter. We urge the international community to contribute urgently and generously to the Africa Peace Fund, established by the Organization of African Unity. The capacity of the United Nations to respond promptly and effectively to the demands made on it for peace-keeping operations depends on the willingness of Member States to accept that there is a primary role for the United Nations and that they be ready to contribute the necessary resources to enable it to fulfil such a role. Since our admission 34 years ago, Nigeria has been an active participant in global efforts at peace-keeping, conflict resolution and crisis management. Our experience over the years has convinced us that there is a clear need to re-examine and reorient the peace-keeping efforts of the United Nations. Since initiating in Liberia the Economic Community of West African States Military Observer Group (ECOMOG), a subregional peace-keeping force, Nigeria has become Africa’s and, indeed, the world’s largest troop contributor to international peace-keeping operations. Even though one or two Member States may choose not to recognize its contribution, the records at the disposal of this Organization will clearly show Nigeria’s significant contribution to the shared responsibility of global peace- keeping, with its attendant sacrifices, including loss of Nigerian lives. That is why we are concerned at the incessant harassment, kidnapping and killing of peace-keeping personnel in various theatres of conflict. As an encouragement to other countries to participate in these costly and often dangerous operations, the United Nations must develop a capacity of effective deterrence against such attacks and adopt appropriate measures to provide prompt and adequate compensation for the victims. One of the disturbing consequences of the proliferation of conflicts is the increasing incidence of refugees and displaced persons. It is our firm conviction that Governments must create structures and suitable conditions which will enable peoples to live in a secure and safe environment in full enjoyment of their human rights and fundamental freedoms. Regrettably, Africa has the largest number of refugees and displaced persons in the world. This imposes additional and enormous financial, material and social burdens on the already distressed economies of receiving States. We commend the efforts of the international community in addressing the refugee problems through the provision of humanitarian assistance. We call on all Governments to eradicate the root causes of the existence of refugees and displaced persons and to create the appropriate conditions 12 for facilitating their voluntary return to their various countries. Despite the end of the cold war, nuclear weapons continue to pose the greatest threat to international peace and security. Consequently, the need to reduce substantially and ultimately eliminate them must remain our primary goal. Recent reports of a rising trend of trafficking in nuclear materials represent a disturbing new dimension to nuclear proliferation which must be checked as a matter of urgency. Next year’s review and extension conference of the non-proliferation Treaty, which has so far served the international community rather well, must be pursued with vigour. The review and extension of the Treaty must be consistent with objective reality and the basic expectations of Member States. Questions of peace and security are inextricably linked to issues of development. We therefore welcome the presentation by the Secretary-General of 'An Agenda for Development' (A/48/935), which is a fitting complement to his earlier proposals in 'An Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277). In 'An Agenda for Development', the Secretary-General has identified five strands: peace as the foundation for development; the economy as the engine of progress; the environment as a basis for sustainability; justice as a pillar of society; and democracy as good governance. Nigeria welcomes these presentations because we believe that the people must be at the centre of all governmental activity, including the goals of development, peace and security. Global efforts in addressing the crisis of development have, over the years, reflected a dichotomy of perception between the industrialized countries of the North and the developing countries of the South. We must recognize that development, like peace, is indivisible. It is therefore of vital importance that the North and the South should see cooperation in development in terms of mutuality of interest and partnership. The expectation that the end of the cold war would make more resources available for development, especially in developing countries, has regrettably remained unfulfilled. In the circumstances, the international community should initiate bold and imaginative measures to bridge the widening gap between the rich and the poor nations. Affluence in the midst of poverty provides neither peace nor security either to the rich or to the poor. Africa continues to face grave economic difficulties, at the heart of which is the debt crisis. The perennial problems of declining investment, capital flight and fall in commodity prices remain. The response of the international community has been feeble and rather inadequate. The United Nations Programme of Action for Africa’s Economic Recovery and Development (UNPAAERD) did not achieve its desired objectives. It does not appear that the New Agenda for Africa’s Development in the 1990s will meet with much success either. It is therefore imperative that Africa should be enabled to make a fresh start to address these problems effectively through an imaginative solution to the debt crisis and the diversification of its economies. For our part, we recognize the need for credible macro-economic policies, as well as for fundamental reforms of our political institutions and processes, and we are taking measures in this regard. However, there is a need to evolve new mechanisms and strategies for international cooperation and partnership. In the wake of the efforts made in structurally reforming our economy and the democratizion of our political institutions, Nigeria, like many other African countries, has come to grips with certain realities, the ramifications of which are usually misconstrued and need to be fully understood. Political pluralism, as a facet of democratization, is so deeply ingrained in our national way of life that over the years we have tried to evolve appropriate democratic institutions and values arising from and responding to our specific national experiences, circumstances and aspirations. We remain committed to this process, which is on course, despite its difficulties and challenges. Too often the process of democratization in Nigeria and, indeed, in several other parts of Africa, has not been correctly presented to the international community. Recent advances in information technology and our lack of resources and capacity for information delivery have hampered our ability to objectively project developments occurring in our societies. For instance, in Nigeria, we continue to make impressive progress in rebuilding sustainable democratic structures and institutions. A Constitutional Conference whose members were largely elected and representing a wide spectrum of our society and diverse interests, has been working assiduously to create an environment conducive to mutual trust, confidence and common purpose among our people. The objective of the Conference is to establish appropriate modalities, institutions and frameworks for a viable democratic order, by laying down the ground rules for the formation of political parties, and for conducting free and 13 fair elections at all levels of government. The Constitutional Conference will complete its work by November 1994. Following the progress made so far, political activities have already commenced and full-fledged political party activities leading to general elections will commence early in the new year. The resolve and commitment of the Nigerian people and Government to democracy remain firm and unshakeable in the full realization that the task of democratization is primarily our responsibility and is for the good of our people. The United Nations has no doubt distinguished itself since its inception as an indispensable forum for harmonizing the actions of nations. We are confident that it will continue to serve in the years ahead as a platform for galvanizing and channelling our collective efforts towards lasting peace and justice. This is especially so if we look inwards with a view to revitalizing and strengthening the Organization itself. The Government of Nigeria endorses the view of the Secretary-General in his report 'An Agenda for Peace' to the effect that to meet the challenges of a new era, the United Nations must reinforce its capacity to respond as well as to reorient its approach to issues which confront it. We subscribe to his recommendation that Member States provide the necessary political commitment and financial resources to enable the Organization to expand, adapt and reinvigorate its work. The reforms undertaken by our Organization so far have been essentially piecemeal and incremental. We have made it clear on several occasions that the time was ripe for a fundamental restructuring of the United Nations system. The present composition and the decision-making process of the Security Council do not adequately reflect current realities brought into sharp relief since the end of the cold war. As an instrument for multilateral cooperation, the United Nations must be transparent, efficient and democratic. The Security Council, as the most important organ of the United Nations, should embody the global quest for democratization in its structure, composition and decision-making processes. In this regard, Nigeria attaches particular importance to the work of the Open-Ended Working Group on the question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council. It is our expectation that the recommendations that will emerge will make the United Nations more responsive to the needs of the international community. We also expect that the criteria for permanent membership of the Council should include such considerations as population, capacity to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, and a track record assessed over a period of time in international peace-keeping and peacemaking efforts. All permanent members should enjoy the same status and privileges and assume the responsibilities incumbent on membership. No less important is the imperative of equitable geographical representation, which must include permanent membership for Africa in the Security Council. In this connection, it is appropriate that I reconfirm Nigeria’s offer to serve the international community as a permanent member of the Security Council. In this last decade of the twentieth century, two issues have preoccupied the United Nations: the promotion of peace and security and the intensification of international cooperation for development. On both issues, the United Nations has responded to our collective aspirations with varying degrees of success. As we approach the twenty-first century, we must dedicate ourselves anew to the full realization of these core goals and objectives of our Organization so that mankind can enjoy peace, freedom and prosperity. I wish to join my fellow Heads of State who have spoken before me in congratulating you most sincerely on your well-deserved election as President of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. As a distinguished son of Africa, you bring to this high office valuable experience, diplomatic skill and wisdom, all of which equip you superbly well to lead this Assembly - an assembly in which the faith and hopes of our people are reposed. Let me assure you, Mr. President, of Tanzania’s whole-hearted cooperation and support as you execute your noble and immense responsibilities to humanity. I should also express the great appreciation which my delegation feels for the dedication to duty and great leadership displayed by your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally of the Republic of Guyana, who very ably led the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly to its successful conclusion. I wish also to acknowledge the untiring efforts of another son of Africa, our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who, together with his Secretariat, has continued to serve our Organization very well indeed. The Secretariat needs, and deserves, the support of all Member States in facing the challenges of their day-to-day work, often under very trying circumstances. This is my second appearance before a session of the General Assembly since being elected President of the United Republic of Tanzania in 1985. I had the honour to address the forty-second session of the Assembly on 8 October 1987. I used that occasion, as the new President of my country, to reaffirm our faith in the United Nations and our commitment to the principles of the United Nations Charter. Today, I am addressing this Assembly for the last time as President of my country. As members may well know, Tanzania has embarked on extensive political and economic reforms, which are proceeding very well, in peace and in harmony. As part of the political reforms, the constitutional term of a president is limited to a maximum of two five- year terms. My second and last term, therefore, will come to an end towards the end of next year, a time when we will hold our first general elections under a multiparty democratic system. It is my great wish that I should bequeath to the Tanzanian people a functioning democratic system that will allow them to choose their own leaders in a free and fair atmosphere. As I prepare to pass on the baton of the leadership of my country to someone else, I can only reaffirm the faith and confidence my country has always had in the United Nations system. All its imperfections notwithstanding, the United Nations remains the only hope for poor and weak countries like mine, for it is only through the United Nations that we can raise our concerns for human development, world peace, justice and equality without fear. The imperfections of the United Nations system have nothing to do with the principles set forth in the United Nations Charter; rather, they are a product of the action or inaction of the Member States. In this connection we are pleased to extend to all the new Members a warm welcome and sincere congratulations. Their admission has brought us much closer to our cherished goal of universal membership of the United Nations. We pledge to continue working closely with all nations to make our world a much better place for all humanity. During my time as President of Tanzania, fundamental changes have occurred in the world. Some of these changes have given us reasons for hope; others have not. Our hopes that the post-cold-war era would bring a new impetus in our Organization for peace and development in all corners of the world have not yet been realized. The so- called peace dividend is not reaching those who need it most, that is, the poorest sectors of humanity. It is a pity that global tensions have been replaced by regional and national conflicts, with devastating consequences for innocent men, women and children. Whether on development questions or security issues, the developing countries, which constitute the vast majority, have seen little respite following the end of the cold war. The collective security system envisaged under the United Nations Charter has not always worked to the satisfaction of many Members. This is because some Member States have, in the past, been reluctant to implement both the letter and the spirit of the Charter. Instead, loopholes and pretexts have often been used to justify action contrary to the spirit of the Charter. Today, as we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we all need to rededicate ourselves to the goals and ideals embodied in its Charter. This includes the need to make the United Nations and all its organs more representative of all its Members and more democratic. It is both hypocritical and a mockery of the ideal of democracy that some Members should preach democracy to the rest of the world and yet not accept the full democratization of the United Nations system. This matter is particularly urgent in this post- cold-war world era. The emerging new power relations in the world can be either an asset or a liability, depending on whether all Members have the political will to enhance the representative nature and the democratic traditions of this world body. If such political will exists, I am sure we can make rapid progress on the expressed desire of many Member States to look again at the role, powers and membership of the Security Council. I am equally sure that if we all have the political will to reform the United Nations system for the better, we can quickly agree on enhancing the powers of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. It is these two organs that are important agents in focusing our Organization on the real and urgent issues confronting the overwhelming majority of humanity. In his comprehensive report to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session, the Secretary-General drew our attention to the peace-keeping role of the United Nations in the changing international context. While United Nations peace-keeping and peacemaking responsibilities have been on the increase, the means to implement those responsibilities have hardly kept pace with these new requirements. With more than 80,000 civilian and military personnel serving in 17 peace-keeping operations worldwide, the Organization requires new commitment towards meeting the costs involved. We should all strive to honour our financial obligations as assessed to meet United Nations peace-keeping expenses. We must not reach the point where training and deployment of personnel will be undertaken only by those Member States who can afford such expenses on their own. Such an eventuality will not only make peace-keeping the monopoly of a few rich countries but will also deal a fatal blow to our cherished principle of universality of participation. In this connection, we entirely support the proposal made by Canada last week in this Assembly for the establishment of a permanent United Nations peace-keeping force. This idea has been with us for a long time, and now is the time to act. 2 My delegation takes this opportunity to salute all United Nations personnel in the field for their devotion to duty and their perseverance under increasingly dangerous situations. Many, including Tanzanians, have died in action. We mourn them. Many more have been wounded. They deserve our heartfelt sympathy. The safety and security of United Nations personnel must continue to be a priority, and we support every initiative taken to establish an international treaty for their protection. As a neighbour of both Rwanda and Burundi, Tanzania has found itself deeply involved in the search for peace and reconciliation in those two most troubled countries. Last year in Cairo, we, the African Heads of State, decided that the time had come for Africans to take charge of preventing, managing and resolving conflicts in their continent, for our countries may be poor, but our poverty does not extend to the realm of humanity, dignity and wisdom. In both Rwanda and Burundi, there was a time when our hopes rose high, when we thought that at last a permanent solution had been found to their endemic problems. In the case of Burundi, the high point was the election of July 1993, which was declared by international observers to have been free and fair. The transition of power from President Buyoya to the late President Ndadaye was equally impressive. That man, whom the people of Burundi had chosen to lead them, personified not only hope for peace, unity and reconciliation in Burundi, but also the dawn of a new era of peace, stability and cooperation in our subregion. But some people in the military establishment decided to put their private and parochial interests above the wishes of the ordinary people of Burundi. What the Burundi people got through the ballot was taken away by the bullet. The attempted coup that followed in October 1993 resulted not only in the death of President Ndadaye but also in the death of many innocent people of Burundi. No one knows exactly how many died; estimates range from 100,000 to 200,000. But statistics alone are unimportant, as not a single life should have been lost in the first place; above all, behind these cold statistics are real people - husbands and wives, sons and daughters, all of whom perished leaving behind widows and widowers, as well as orphans. In addition to those who died, over 700,000 others fled their country in order to save their lives; about 500,000 of them fled to Tanzania alone. Another 200,000 or more were displaced internally. With those events of October 1993, our hopes for peace and reconciliation in Burundi were dashed to the ground; since then we have been waiting anxiously for new developments that could rekindle our hopes. We are encouraged by the efforts of moderate elements in Burundi to create a transitional government of unity, based on the concept of power sharing. It is incumbent upon those of us neighbouring Burundi and upon the international community as a whole to support and encourage the Government of President Sylvestre Ntibantunganya during this transitional period. In the case of Rwanda, the event that gave us hope was the signing of the Arusha Peace Agreement on 4 August 1993. The Agreement provided a comprehensive framework for the permanent solution of the political and security problems in Rwanda. But the Agreement, which had been so painstakingly negotiated, was held hostage by those who were keen to protect their own interests rather than the interests of the ordinary citizens of Rwanda. For eight months, the timetable agreed upon for the implementation of the Arusha Agreement was not followed. The only transitional institution provided for in the Agreement was the presidency. The death of President Habyarimana, therefore, denied us the only legal transitional authority in Rwanda at that time. Then began the worst carnage in African history - which, even as I speak, is still claiming the lives of innocent people, not to mention having been the cause of over 1.5 million refugees in neighbouring countries. Most of those who participated in the Arusha negotiations on behalf of the then Rwanda Government were massacred. Following its military victory, the Rwandese Patriotic Front (RPF) established in July 1994 a fairly broad-based Government of National Unity. Tanzania was among the first countries to recognize this new Government. We recognize and appreciate the efforts and good intentions of this new Government to restore peace in Rwanda, to rebuild State institutions and to bring about genuine national reconciliation. In particular, we encourage and support all efforts of the Rwandese Government to create conditions within Rwanda that will give Rwandese refugees the confidence to return home as soon as possible. Rwanda needs to revert to a state of normalcy as soon as possible. A country from which its own citizens run away to save their lives cannot be normal. Even as I speak, some Rwandese refugees continue to enter Tanzania. This means that the Rwandese people, especially the Hutus, still feel insecure - whether for valid reasons or as a result of the 3 propaganda war waged by the ousted regime and its agents. In this connection, the Government of Rwanda needs the encouragement and practical assistance of the international community to restore essential services and to re-establish the rule of justice and law and order. The traditional discipline within the ranks of the RPF needs to be maintained, and individual acts of vengeance must be contained. Innocent Hutu refugees must feel secure and confident that no reprisals will be meted out to them for previous atrocities associated with their tribe. On the other hand, all those guilty of the genocide in Rwanda must face justice. In this respect, we urge the United Nations, in collaboration with the Rwandese Government, quickly to make operational the international tribunal that will investigate and put to trial all those suspected of committing these atrocities. This, we hope, will reduce the motivation for individual acts of revenge. The urgency of stemming the tide of refugees, and of effecting their subsequent repatriation, is of paramount importance. The refugee camps must not be allowed to acquire the character of permanency, as this would create an environment conducive to the political and even military mobilization of the refugees. In the meanwhile, we who are hosts to these refugees have a duty to disarm them and take whatever action is necessary to make it impossible for them to be mobilized, whether for political or military purposes. Neighbouring countries and the international community should also warn the deposed regime and its army not to entertain thoughts of a military return to power. We cannot allow another chapter of this tragedy to be written in the history of Rwanda. For, as an English political philosopher, Edmund Burke, said two centuries ago: 'The use of force alone is but temporary. It may subdue for a moment; but it does not remove the necessity of subduing again; and a nation is not governed, which is perpetually to be conquered.' In this connection, I wish to emphasize the need for the Rwandese Government to proceed on the basis of the framework of the Arusha Peace Accord, which in my view remains the best hope for a permanent solution to the problems facing that country. As Facilitator to the peace process in Rwanda, I wish to commend the Secretary- General of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), Dr. Salim Ahmed Salim, and the OAU Secretariat for the outstanding commitment they have shown to the resolution of this problem, despite the many disappointments along the way. I also wish to use this opportunity to thank the United Nations, as well as Belgium, Burundi, France, Germany, Senegal, Uganda, the United States of America and Zaire, which acted as observers to the Arusha peace negotiations. I wish also to thank the United Nations agencies and all Governments and non-governmental organizations that joined hands with my Government in providing relief to the Rwandese refugees in my country. But the relief work is far from being over; new refugees are still coming in. The local communities which have hosted the refugees need to be compensated for the food and other services and supplies they have shared with them. The environmental damage caused by the huge and sudden influx of refugees also needs to be addressed as soon as possible. The people of Ngara district in Tanzania have themselves been forced to live like refugees in their own country. The local population has been outnumbered by the refugees by a ratio of one to two. They face overcrowding in social service centres and endure tremendous price hikes, sometimes reaching 300 per cent over a short period, for all their requirements. And to this must be added increased security risks and criminality. As for environmental damage, the influx of refugees into Ngara and Karagwe in Tanzania, between April and June 1994 alone, caused a loss of 18,000 tons of trees, with an estimated value of $12 million. The 400,000 refugees living in Ngara have since April consumed 200 tons of firewood daily, with far-reaching consequences for the environment. The international community needs to continue to be seized of this matter and increase its support to those of us hosting this huge influx of refugees. It is only honourable for us as Members of the United Nations to accept that the role of our Organization in Rwanda has been far from honourable, and has been quite contrary to the principles of our Charter. While aid agencies and non-governmental organizations can do wonders on the ground, Governments wring their hands and wait for one another to lead the action. The crisis in Rwanda was made worse by political indecision within the international community. My delegation can only agree with the OAU Secretary-General that, by our failure to act promptly, we too stand to be blamed for the loss of innocent lives and the suffering of an entire people. 4 African troops pledged at the OAU Summit in Cairo last June should quickly be given the necessary logistic support to enable the redeployment of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR) at its full strength to start without undue delay. The enlarged UNAMIR should then create safe zones along the Zairian and Tanzanian borders, which should be fully stocked with relief supplies so as to encourage refugees to enter these safe zones as a first step towards returning to their own homes. Since my country became a member of this Organization, there has perhaps been no issue before this Assembly which has preoccupied us like the question of decolonization and the struggle against the apartheid system in South Africa. It is therefore a matter of tremendous satisfaction to us that decolonization is now almost complete and that apartheid has finally landed where it belongs - in the dustbin of history. South Africa’s return to the membership of the United Nations is a victory for all the people of that country, whatever their colour, a victory for the United Nations and certainly a victory for the international community as a whole. The political and economic reintegration of South Africa into the rest of Africa is one of the biggest triumphs for Africa for many years. We in the southern African sub- region are happy that at last our people can sleep peacefully without fearing a surprise attack or a destabilization campaign from South Africa. We are happy that the emerging peace and security in our region can now release scarce resources for the development of our people. On the economic front, we have quickly begun to reverse the years of disengagement from South Africa and to work together to integrate our economies through the Southern African Development Community (SADC), in which the new South Africa will play a very important role. This, unfortunately, does not mean that all our problems in southern Africa have been resolved. Events in Angola continue to cause us a good deal of anxiety. Through its endless intransigency, UNITA continues to create problems for the Angolan peace talks in Lusaka under United Nations mediation. I think the time has come for the international community to exert final pressure on UNITA to stop it from continuing to obstruct these peace efforts. We must not forget that the MPLA party won the elections sponsored by the United Nations in September 1992. Yet, regardless of its victory, the MPLA has been generous in inviting UNITA to join a government of national unity. We cannot see why certain foreign Governments should continue to pamper UNITA as it comes up with new excuses to delay the process of national reconciliation in that country. Our Organization should tell Mr. Savimbi that he cannot have his own way forever. We therefore call upon all those with influence on Mr. Savimbi to ask him either to cooperate or face the consequences of the full sanctions promised in resolution 932 (1994). In Mozambique, thanks to the determined efforts of the Secretary-General and the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ), most of the difficulties have since been overcome. We look forward with anticipation to the national elections later this month in the hope that they will not only be free and fair, but also that all parties will respect and abide by the election results. We hope that the lessons from the Angolan experience have now been learned well and that the people of Mozambique will be spared the menace that Mr. Savimbi continues to present in Angola. We commend, in particular, the outstanding goodwill and generosity of the Government of President Chissano, which was demonstrated throughout the negotiating process. Despite overall economic growth in the world, and the creation of numerous developmental and social institutions, poverty has been on the increase in most parts of the developing world, particularly in Africa. A supportive international environment is crucial if we are to attain sustained economic growth in developing countries, especially in the least developed ones. The United Nations must be able to play a much greater role in this matter because, unlike the Bretton Woods institutions, the United Nations is universal; its programmes operate everywhere; and it does not ignore countries. But I must add that the United Nations has to be strengthened, as mandated by its Charter, to enable it to play a complementary role vis-à-vis the other international organizations involved in development. Most of the least developed countries, including Tanzania, remain among the most debt-distressed countries. It is true that the magnitude of our debt is marginal by international standards. Indeed, the indebtedness of the least developed countries does not have a substantial effect on the international financial system. But in relation to the size of their economies, the debt burden is far too heavy and constitutes a major obstacle to sustained growth. In the light of an already grim financial flow situation, caused by declines in official development assistance, the crippling burden of 5 international debt has seriously hampered development prospects for most of our countries. As an illustration, if we in Tanzania were to apportion our total national debt of $6.3 billion to each of our citizens, every poor man, woman and child would be indebted to our rich creditors by the equivalent of their total earnings for over two years. Put differently, even if the Tanzanian Government were to devote all its foreign exchange earnings to paying off this debt, it would still take us over 12 years to do so. With a debt burden of this magnitude dragging us down all the time, it will be difficult for our economy to take off. There is an urgent need for the international community to adopt a unified and coordinated approach towards a durable solution of the external debt position of countries like mine if we are serious about reducing poverty in the world. To achieve this, there should be a full cancellation of all bilateral and official debt, as well as a substantial reduction of the debt stock and the debt service burden owed to multilateral financial institutions and commercial creditors. Nowhere in the world today are the social conditions more desperate and calling for more urgent attention than in the least developed countries. Declining income aggravates poverty and threatens the social fabric of entire societies. It is our hope that the forthcoming World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen will be an important forum for the world community to focus on the social and developmental concerns of developing countries in an attempt to free them from the vicious circle of poverty. The protracted Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) finally came to a conclusion in December 1993. We then met at Marrakesh, Morocco, on 15 April 1994, to sign the new agreement that establishes the World Trade Organization. We from the developing world, and especially those of us from Sub-Saharan Africa, signed that agreement not because we were happy with it or because we thought it took care of our interests. We signed it because the alternative was equally tragic. In truth, this new agreement will only mean the entrenchment of poverty in our countries unless compensatory measures are urgently taken in our favour. It is already being estimated that Africa is the only continent that will actually lose rather than gain from this new agreement. Sub-Saharan Africa is expected to lose about $2.6 billion a year by the beginning of the next century. The cause of this loss is largely the entrenchment of unfavourable terms of trade, and the opening up of African markets to transnational corporations based in the rich countries, which will now have wider and unhindered access to markets in Africa and elsewhere. We will therefore continue to demand better terms of trade for our products in international trade, as well as preferential treatment where this is felt to be necessary. It is now two years since we assembled at Rio de Janeiro to bring to its conclusion the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. The implementation of the agreements reached at that world summit has been extremely slow and in most areas non-existent. The world is still far from the concept of sustainable development. The Agenda 21 document remains an academic masterpiece while the issues involved remain unresolved. Among other things, the United Nations, through the Commission on Sustainable Development, should assume a major role in helping developing countries to build their indigenous capacities in science and technology and in promoting access to existing technology on favourable terms. We are none the less gratified that the desertification Convention has been concluded. This is a great relief for the 900 million people world wide affected by this phenomenon. We look forward to the signing of the Convention later this month. We commend our development partners that supported the negotiations on this important Convention for Africa. The African annex to the Convention contains our commitments to implement the programmes of action in an effort to contain the processes of desertification and drought, which are exacerbated by poverty and underdevelopment. Unless there is a serious commitment by developed countries and multilateral financial institutions to extend the financial resources required to implement the Convention, the social and economic consequences of desertification and drought will be irreparable. We welcome the timely initiative taken by the Secretary-General in preparing the Agenda for Development. The Agenda provides an appropriate framework for dealing comprehensively with the interrelated issues of economic and social development, the environment, peace, justice and democracy. 6 Development is a shared concern of all nations and the acceptance of this fact by the entire international community will result in great success in dealing with this Agenda. While we recognize that States must assume responsibility for their own socio-economic development, we must also recognize that this will be increasingly difficult without the assistance of the international community. The solutions to the problems created by poverty, rural-urban migration, the degradation of the environment and the complexity of the refugee situation will require an integrated approach. It is our hope that the Agenda for Development will project a coherent strategy for achieving a new and inclusive vision of world development. Such a strategy must bind all countries, both small and large, rich and poor, in a planned and implementable programme for human progress. Tanzania attaches great importance to the full and effective participation of developing countries in decision- making for the resolution of economic problems facing our common planet. In addition, the Agenda should incorporate the various agreements and strategies for international development already adopted over the years in different forums and conferences. We must also identify the reasons why so many of these commitments and agreements, especially those related to developing countries, are still on paper only. In conclusion, I wish to reiterate our faith in and commitment to the United Nations. In this post-cold-war era, the temptation to bypass, or dictate to, this world body might be quite high. We must not allow that to take place. We must instead work to strengthen the United Nations and its agencies and to entrench their democratic tradition. We must, at the same time, recognize that poverty, like the environment, knows no borders. It is in our collective interest that, as we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations system, we dedicate ourselves in practical terms to the eradication of poverty the world over. We must agree that poverty is as much a threat to peace and security and as much an affront to humanity as injustice, oppression and discrimination. Let me, on behalf of the Bulgarian delegation, congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I should also like to extend my appreciation to his predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, for his proficiency in presiding over the forty-eighth session. Diverse, often conflicting trends and events characterize the present year, which has marked the end of apartheid in South Africa, a significant breakthrough in the Middle East peace process and steps towards a settlement of the problems in Northern Ireland. We have also witnessed, however, the incredible human tragedy in Rwanda and the continuing bloodshed in Bosnia. New hotbeds of tension have emerged in some parts of the world. What are, in our view, the parameters of the political situation in the world, and Europe in particular? Efforts to build a new world based on the idea of developing the collective security system envisaged in the United Nations Charter have received additional impetus. Universal standards for human rights and international mechanisms for safeguarding them are being devised. The problems of population, poverty and the global ecosystem are being addressed with increasing attention. A concept for renewed cooperation for development is being considered in which peace, the economy, the environment, social justice and democracy are viewed as aspects of the same movement towards a better world. At the same time, the elimination of the contradictions between the East and the West has been followed by destabilization - temporary, we hope - in some regions of the world. Acts of aggressive nationalism and xenophobia, of violence and terrorism, are becoming more frequent. The numerous conflicts based on national, ethnic and religious intolerance are difficult to manage. Among other things, this has disturbed the balance between the efforts to maintain international security and the activities in the social and economic sphere, against a background of spreading 20 hunger and poverty and the aggravation of economic and environmental problems. These global problems have left their mark on relations in Europe as in other places. On one hand, new, historic possibilities for wide cooperation between all European States have opened up in the process of promoting a common European identity. On the other hand, new, as well as reawakened, national interests and policies are taking shape, and these are interacting with and, at the same time, counteracting the integration processes. The end of the ideological and military confrontation on the old continent has not yet led to the removal of all barriers. Europe is still divided into zones that differ in terms of security and economic welfare. It is desirable that this division be overcome, as the problems of the zones with less security could be transferred to those with greater security. The global political dimension of the ongoing transition to democracy and a market economy in Central and Eastern Europe has been largely recognized. Despite the serious decline in living standards and rising unemployment, the Bulgarian people voted for transition. The process of market-orientated reform that started about five years ago is irreversible. Our association with the European Union is a manifestation of the European orientation of my country’s policy and an expression of the political will to adhere to the universal values of democracy. We are adapting our economic, social and trade mechanisms to those of the European democracies and are actively participating in political dialogue with the European Union. Though slower than we anticipated, the economic reforms in Bulgaria are moving ahead. As a participant in the Partnership for Peace initiative of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and as a State with associate status in the Western European Union, Bulgaria will contribute to the improvement of cooperation between the Euro-Atlantic and European security institutions and the relevant United Nations structures. On the eve of the session of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) in Budapest later this year, Bulgaria is confident that the high-level representatives of European countries will come up with new ideas to improve the functions of the CSCE, including cooperation with United Nations. The Council of Europe - one of the oldest of the international organizations in Europe - has won recognition as an organization capable of responding adequately and in a timely manner to the challenges of our time by promoting pluralistic democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. As Bulgaria currently holds the chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, I should like to refer briefly to this body, which already comprises 32 members. Nine States have joined since 1989, and nine others are involved in a process of accession. Cooperation between the Council of Europe and United Nations institutions and between the Council and some of the specialized agencies has been developed over many years and has produced concrete results. This cooperation has now become triangular - combining the efforts of the Council of Europe, of the CSCE and of the United Nations. In addition, there is a developing partnership with the European Union. In this complex and interdependent environment the United Nations must increase its capacity to confront the new challenges if it is to be effective in peace-making and in the development of social and economic cooperation between countries. In this context, important views and concepts are contained in the Secretary-General’s report 'An Agenda for Peace', in his report on new dimensions of arms regulation and disarmament and in his agenda for development. Bulgaria values highly the role of the United Nations in solving problems directly related to the strengthening of regional and international security. We support a peaceful and equitable solution of the conflicts in the Caucasus region, the Caribbean, Africa and other places. We are particularly concerned about the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has become one of the most serious challenges facing European States and institutions, the entire civilized world and the international organizations. We call for an immediate end to the war and the suffering of the population. A political solution in Bosnia and Herzegovina must be based on respect for the interests of all parties. There must be compromise and realism on all sides. In our view, concerted action by the participants in the Contact Group is the second prerequisite for the achievement of a lasting and just solution to the conflict. Let me once again reaffirm the position of Bulgaria on the crisis in the former Yugoslavia. My country will not participate, directly or indirectly, in any military 21 activities on the territory of the former Yugoslavia - not even under the flag of the United Nations - and we call upon the other Balkan States to do likewise. 'Restraint' should be the key word for the Balkan region. Bulgaria will continue to pursue a constructive and balanced policy and will not take part in any one or other grouping of Balkan countries. Thus it will maintain its stabilizing role in the region. Bulgaria subscribes to the view that in the current circumstances it would not be appropriate to lift the arms embargo against Bosnia and Herzegovina. This, in our view, would make the conflict even more uncontrollable. We welcome the adoption of Security Council resolutions 941 (1994), 942 (1994) and 943 (1994), which reflect in a balanced way the current developments in the region. We hope that the easing of the sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro will be followed by the adoption of a responsible policy by the party concerned, thus leading to further normalization of the situation in the region. We appeal to the leadership of the Bosnian Serbs to accept the proposed peace settlement and to act in accordance with the norms of civilized behaviour. The crisis in the former Yugoslavia is directly related to yet another important problem - that of equitable burden- sharing, not only in implementing the sanctions imposed by the Security Council but also in overcoming their adverse effect on the economies of third countries. The decision to abide strictly by the sanctions has not been an easy one for us. We joined in the sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro - sanctions mandated by the United Nations - in the conviction that they are one of the peaceful means by which the international community can contribute to a solution of the conflict. The sanctions have, however, caused significant direct and indirect losses to my country. On three occasions since 1991 - as a result of the sanctions against Iraq, Libya, and Serbia and Montenegro - Bulgaria has requested consultations with the Security Council regarding its special economic problems. Let me point out that the adverse effects of the sanctions have came at a time of major economic transformation. They distort trade seriously and hence have a significant negative impact on the economy, affecting primarily the emerging private sector. At a time of reorientation of foreign trade within our European integration policy, the implementation of the sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) has cut off our normal trade routes to European markets. The lack of adequate alternative transport corridors makes our export activity much less competitive and sometimes even impossible. The sanctions are far from being the only source of our problems and difficulties, but they definitely have a considerable negative impact on the overall political, economic, security and social situation in my country. I would say that the burden of the sanctions exceeds the point of reasonable economic and social tolerance in Bulgaria, given the lack of adequate financial, economic and trade assistance. Urgent measures are imperative to overcome all those negative effects. Bulgaria would welcome a more active involvement of international institutions and the developed countries in, for example, financing projects for improving the transport infrastructure of the country as part of the alternative road, railroad and communication links in Europe. Another measure could be the provision of better market access for Bulgarian goods and services. We also hope that the sanctions Committee established under resolution 724 (1991) will give favourable and timely consideration to the applications submitted by Bulgarian companies, especially those for providing humanitarian aid to the Bulgarian minority in eastern Serbia, whose situation is of primary concern to us. The United Nations has shown considerable understanding of our difficulties and has given us moral support. I would like to recall the adoption by consensus of General Assembly resolution 48/210, initiated by Bulgaria and sponsored by a number of countries. We now look forward to constructive discussions on the Secretary-General’s report on this resolution. This should lead to the General Assembly’s adoption of further recommendations for practical steps aimed at assisting third countries in alleviating their special economic problems. Bulgaria is of the view that in the process of restructuring the United Nations account should be taken of the new political and economic realities of the world, as well as the specific problems of countries in transition to a market economy and of small States, while at the same time observing the principles of international law and equality set forth in the United Nations Charter. The improvement of interaction between the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretary-General, as well as the restructuring of the 22 major United Nations bodies in the social and economic sphere, will contribute to reinforcing the role of the United Nations in the pursuit of the necessary balance between preventive diplomacy, promotion of sustainable development and protection of human rights. Bulgaria is following with great interest the ongoing discussion on the question of equitable representation on the Security Council and increasing its membership while preserving its effectiveness. Our country is ready to participate actively in the search for consensus decisions. We believe that the Security Council’s work would be much more effective if, in the decision-making process on regional issues, the positions of neighbouring countries and States concerned, as well as those of the respective regional organizations, were taken into consideration. This is particularly important in cases where the Security Council considers the imposition of economic sanctions. It would be useful to prepare and examine in advance a complex evaluation of the negative effects sanctions would have on the economies of neighbouring countries. There is also a need for greater transparency in the activities of the sanctions Committees. We therefore suggest that their meetings should be open to interested States. The respective Chairmen could also conduct briefings after each meeting to inform the States of the decisions taken. The States willing to provide contingents for peace-keeping operations should also be involved in the Security Council deliberations regarding these operations. In addition, the recently established practice of holding regular meetings of the heads of current operations, the member States of the Security Council and representatives of other interested States should be institutionalized, especially in cases where the Security Council considers the mandate, composition and nationality of the contingents involved in a particular peace-keeping operation. Bulgaria supports the efforts of the international community aimed at preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and at their elimination. At the forthcoming Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) review and extension conference, we will advocate an indefinite and unconditional extension of the Treaty. We are also happy to announce that this year Bulgaria ratified the 1993 Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. The Republic of Bulgaria will continue to support regional and global initiatives on conventional disarmament and arms control. In today’s world, peace and security, democracy and sustainable development are inseparable. We therefore support the strengthening of the United Nations role in the social and economic field. The further liberalization of world trade is an important factor in development. The successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations provides favourable prospects for wide liberalization and stable growth of world trade. The World Trade Organization will be of paramount importance for the efficient functioning of the global trade system for the benefit of all countries. We expect that Bulgaria will be able to finalize its negotiations on accession to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), including the results of the Uruguay Round, within a time-frame that will allow us to become a charter member of the World Trade Organization. Bulgaria is interested in taking all possible measures aimed at achieving economic stability through sustainable development. Regional cooperation has a considerable role in this regard. We hope that the Conference of Ministers of the Environment of the European countries, which is to take place in 1995 in Sofia, will contribute to reinforcing the positive trends in the solution of regional environmental problems. The promotion and protection of human rights and cooperation in the humanitarian field has an especially important place in Bulgaria’s domestic and foreign policy. We support the strengthening and promotion of the United Nations monitoring mechanisms in the field of human rights, the establishment of the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the increased public awareness regarding human rights in all parts of the world and the activities of the non-governmental organizations. The World Summit on Social Development in Copenhagen and the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing are expected to give a major impetus to the development and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Next year we will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. We await it with a sense of responsibility and hope. I am confident that the efforts of the international community to build a new world security 23 system based on the effective maintenance of world peace and stability, respect for human rights and promotion of the market-economy principles and of universal democratic values will dominate the future of the world Organization. Bulgaria is prepared to contribute to the achievement of these goals. On behalf of the Government and people of Thailand, I extend warmest congratulations to Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I am confident that he will provide the General Assembly with the leadership to guide the session to a successful conclusion. I should also like to pay tribute to Ambassador Insanally, the General Assembly’s President at its forty-eighth session. My delegation very much appreciates his untiring and effective leadership and his dedication to the work of this body. Under his presidency, the General Assembly had an eventful year, and its role was enhanced in ways which were beneficial to the Organization. Thailand joins the rest of the international community in congratulating the Government and people of South Africa on having established a united, democratic and non-racial country. They have shown us that compromise is possible and that even the most long-standing and bitter of conflicts can be resolved peacefully. This achievement is due entirely to the exceptional vision, courage and pragmatism of the country’s leaders - in particular, President Nelson Mandela and Executive Deputy President F.W. de Klerk. Tribute must also be paid to the United Nations, and in particular to the Special Committee against Apartheid, for its contributions to the positive changes in South Africa. There is another bright spot giving all of us hope for a more peaceful world. Since the Thai Government has long supported the Middle East peace process, the 18 termination of the state of war between Jordan and Israel, announced in Washington in July this year, following last year’s historic agreement between Israel and the PLO, gives all of us reason to rejoice. We hope that it will lead to further agreements on 'other tracks' acceptable to all parties concerned, so that a durable peace in the Middle East may finally be achieved. We also welcome the positive developments concerning the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula and hope that dialogue and negotiation between the parties concerned will eventually result in that part of the world enjoying lasting peace and stability. However, in spite of the promising outlook for international peace and security, there remain political and military conflicts of both global and regional magnitude. It is therefore imperative that countries continue unfailing efforts to secure a stable and peaceful international environment. As a first step in this direction, the international community could support and cooperate in efforts towards comprehensive reform and total revitalization of the United Nations to enable the Organization to meet the new challenges of today’s world and to assist Members efficiently in their peaceful endeavours. Thailand pledges its continued support for the Secretary-General’s proposals in 'An Agenda for Peace'. These constitute an innovative and practical framework for the maintenance of international peace and security and deserve serious consideration by all Member States. In South-East Asia, realizing the need to ensure a secure and peaceful international environment, the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) took the lead in promoting political and security dialogues and consultations in the Asia-Pacific region by initiating the establishment of the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF). Designed to be a high-level consultative forum on political and security matters, the ARF held its first meeting in Bangkok on 25 July 1994, after the twenty-seventh ASEAN ministerial meeting. Nineteen ministers from countries in the Asia-Pacific region and from the European Union attended this historic meeting to discuss political and security cooperation issues, such as the latest developments on regional situations, and decided to carry out some practical confidence-building measures applicable to the Asia-Pacific region. As Chairman of the first ARF meeting, Thailand is pleased with the results of the meeting and its achievements. In particular, Thailand is grateful for the kind cooperation it received from all countries concerned. Since the success of this first meeting, the ARF has become a viable forum for the promotion of trust as well as political and security cooperation within the Asia-Pacific region. The ARF has also demonstrated its potential to make substantive contributions towards the United Nations efforts at preventive diplomacy and at maintaining international peace and security. In other words, the ARF got off to a good start. Thailand is fully aware that the first meeting of the ARF in Bangkok was only the beginning. For this reason, Thailand views the inter-sessional activities at various levels among officials from ARF countries as necessary for the ARF’s continued success. These activities could help the ARF find its future direction and enable it to become more efficient and productive. Political and military security are but one aspect of the bigger picture facing us. As we search for a new international order based on a common set of principles and values, we need to change our way of thinking. We also need a new culture of development cooperation and new definitions of the notions of security and development. The winds of change have begun to sweep across the globe. We are now witnessing the creation of major landmarks of international consensus-building. In 1992, the Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit set a new stage for global partnership on the environment and sustainable development. Last year (in Vienna), the World Conference on Human Rights was held, producing a world programme of action. Last month in Cairo we witnessed the International Conference on Population and Development. Next year in Copenhagen, the World Summit for Social Development will be held. This Summit will serve as a bridge between this year’s Conference on Population and Development in Cairo and next year’s Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. It also presents a unique opportunity for the international community to respond, on a global level, to urgent human and social concerns that place people at the centre of the development process. The Thai Government accords special importance to social development. In light of this, we have established a social cabinet dedicated to formulating policies and finding solutions to a number of pressing social problems. We have also organized a joint committee comprising members of the private sector and of Government and 19 chaired by the Prime Minister. Its mandate is to oversee efforts to alleviate the social problems that beset a growing economy, such as those being experienced by my country and others in the region. Thailand has participated and will continue to participate actively in all global deliberations. These conferences create new paradigms of international conduct which give rise to the various comprehensive global plans of action. They have also started the new process of redefining the notions of security and development. Security in this final decade of the twentieth century goes well beyond the familiar concepts of old. It must involve people - how they live and how they exercise their choices. It should be security with a human face, because it must deal directly with political, economic, environmental and social aspects of our lives in a comprehensive manner. Development, as pointed out by the Secretary-General, must be seen in its five interlinked dimensions: with peace as the foundation; the economy as the engine of progress; the environment as a basis for sustainability; justice as a pillar of society; and democracy as good governance. My country shares these perceptions and supports their premises as envisioned by the Secretary-General. It is with this awareness that Thailand approaches its work on the international agenda for development. Such an agenda should reflect and indeed promote self-reliance as well as interdependence among Member States. There is no doubt that development is primarily a national responsibility. Yet, it is also a shared responsibility of the international community. It is our firm belief that the development effort of any State in today’s world must be supported by a conducive international environment, based on free and fair trading practices. The completion of the Uruguay Round and the creation of the World Trade Organization now hold out the prospect of providing significant benefits to the world economy. A United Nations agenda for development should not be given any less importance than the agenda for peace. These two intertwined issues must be the core of any effort to strengthen the role and activities of the United Nations as we approach the next century. Together with the 'An Agenda for Peace', 'An agenda for development' should serve as an instrument for the coordination of activities within the United Nations, as well as between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions, and other non-governmental organizations. It should be an instrument to create unity of purpose, at both the policy and operational levels, within the Organization. The United Nations cannot be a strong force for peace unless it is also a strong force for development. The United Nations remains humanity’s best hope for creating a more desirable world - a world with a conscience, a world which recognizes that humans everywhere, young or old, strong or weak, are at the centre of our communal and individual efforts. To this end, I should like to reaffirm Thailand’s commitment to this vision, which cannot be fulfilled without the active participation of Member States. Thailand will do its part in contributing to this end. We hope that other countries will also chip in with their fair share of contributions. A world united by this vision and this unity of purpose will surely be a better place for us all and, more important, for our children and grandchildren. The delegation of Myanmar would like to congratulate you most warmly, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty- ninth session and to assure you of our fullest cooperation in the discharge of your responsibilities. We are confident that the wealth of experience and wisdom that you bring with you will prove invaluable in guiding us successfully through the present session. We also wish to express our appreciation to the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Rudolph Insanally, for his sagacious and outstanding stewardship of the previous session of the General Assembly. In South Africa, four decades of the despicable system of apartheid have finally been laid to rest. The election of President Nelson Mandela by the country's first multiracial Parliament has given birth to a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa. A nation that has so courageously overcome such adversity and overwhelming pressure deserves our support and acclaim as it faces its future with optimism. I am pleased to see the delegation of South Africa rejoining us in this Assembly. Its presence here reflects the momentous changes taking place in the world today. The concerted effort to abolish apartheid in South Africa has finally succeeded. We welcome our brothers from South Africa, wish them every success in rebuilding their nation and look forward to working closely with their Government and people. The importance of adhering to the five principles of peace coexistence that form the basic tenets of Myanmar's foreign policy bears reiteration. Myanmar, together with the People's Republic of China and India, enunciated those principles nearly five decades ago. These time- tested principles have crystallized as the universally accepted legal norms of inter-State relations. In strict observance of these principles, Myanmar has never allowed, and will never allow, its territory to be used as a springboard for action or threats against another State. By the same token, Myanmar expects that other nations will likewise abide by these principles in their conduct of policy towards Myanmar. At this time of dramatic and profound changes, the United Nations represents the best hope for mankind in the maintenance of international peace and security and in the promotion of international cooperation in other areas of human endeavour. Whatever character and shape the emerging new international order may eventually assume, we have no doubt that the United Nations will constitute 6 a vital element in that new order and will continue to play an increasingly important role in international relations. As we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, it is the appropriate time for us to rededicate ourselves to the purposes and principles of the Charter and to redouble our efforts to further strengthen the role of the world Organization. In order to mark this auspicious anniversary in a fitting manner, we have formed a high-level National Committee in my country to carry out necessary preparatory work and to coordinate commemorative activities at the national level. Myanmar firmly believes that the United Nations plays a pivotal role in promoting international cooperation for development and for the maintenance of peace and security. There is a close link between peace and development; it is therefore the view of my delegation that the Agenda for Peace and the Agenda for Development must go hand in hand. Now that the cold war is over and the avenues for peace and development are more pronounced, we would like to call upon the international community to create a favourable environment that ensures sustainable development. My delegation shares the view that at the present time the search for security and peace in the world lies in development, not in armaments. For most people throughout the world, and particularly in developing countries, any feeling of insecurity arises more out of anxieties about daily subsistence than out of the dread of a cataclysmic global conflict. Underdevelopment creates poverty, hunger, malnutrition, environmental degradation and so on, collectively leading to civil strife, ethnic conflicts and, eventually, the collapse of peace and security. These problems may in some instances be confined within national borders; however, some will definitely have international and even global ramifications and consequences. Both “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development” are top-priority tasks facing the United Nations, and they deserve equal attention and equal allocation of resources. United Nations peace-keeping missions are stretched out across the globe, and United Nations agencies for development and humanitarian affairs fan out over an even wider area. Myanmar shares the view that economic and social developments are prerequisites for lasting peace and security. We would therefore like to see a strengthening of the Economic and Social Council in tandem with the call for a restructuring of the Security Council to respond adequately to the new challenges of international peace and security that have emerged in the wake of the cold war. Fifty years ago, against a political background that was very different from today's, the United Nations was born with the purposes of maintaining international peace and security, promoting development and safeguarding human rights. Now that the cold war is over and the international community is free from the super-Power rivalry that so crippled the United Nations in the past, the Organization should be restructured to meet the needs and challenges of the present-day world. Peace-keeping is an area in which the United Nations is being called to take on increasing responsibilities. These operations constitute an important instrument of the world Organization in the prevention and containment of conflicts and in keeping peace where it is most needed. Peace-keeping operations have a mixed record of successes and some set-backs. Experience and lessons from past operations should be carefully reviewed and re-evaluated to ensure the more effective and proper conduct of such operations. It is imperative that United Nations peace-keeping operations be carried out only with the consent and willing cooperation of the parties concerned and that all aspects of such operations strictly conform to the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter. There is also a need for such operations to be rationalized, streamlined and made more cost effective. In the field of disarmament we are encouraged by the positive developments of last year. Intensive negotiations are now under way in the Geneva-based Conference on Disarmament to achieve a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. The steadily increasing trust and confidence between nuclear- and non-nuclear-weapon States has provided an opportunity for the international community to come to grips with the prevention of the vertical and horizontal proliferation of nuclear weapons. This opportunity should be seized by bringing the negotiations on the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty to a successful conclusion in the most expeditious way. The United States has announced its decision to extend the moratorium for one year until September 1995. We believe that such a moratorium, if also observed by other nuclear-weapon States, would create conditions conducive to the ongoing process of negotiating a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. The review and extension Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is less than a year away. We are of the view that substantive progress in crucial areas, namely the comprehensive test-ban treaty, negative security 7 assurances for non-nuclear-weapon States and a ban on the production of nuclear fissile material in all its aspects, will contribute to a successful outcome of the review Conference. A careful evaluation of the progress achieved in these crucial areas should be made before taking a decision at the review Conference on the further extension of the Treaty. Myanmar looks forward to working and cooperating with other delegations for the successful outcome of the 1995 review and extension Conference. While I am on the subject of the NPT, may I take this opportunity to inform the Assembly that, as a State Party to the Treaty, the Myanmar Government has decided to sign the International Atomic Energy Agency Safeguards Agreement and Protocol. The signing of the Agreement and Protocol will take place in the near future. Myanmar is also actively taking part in the preparatory process for the implementation of the chemical weapons Convention since becoming an original signatory to it. Like other signatories to the Convention, the ratification process is currently under way in Myanmar. The signature on 4 May 1994 of the agreement to implement the Israel-Palestine Declaration of Principles marks an important milestone towards a lasting peace in the Middle East. The recent approval by the Israeli Cabinet of the transfer of civilian powers to the Palestinians in the areas of culture, youth and sports, international cooperation, education, health, social welfare, tourism and finance is another positive step that will further pave the way to self- rule by the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and Jericho. We congratulate the parties concerned for their courage and mutual accommodation. We are also heartened to note that both Israel and Jordan are implementing the Washington Declaration signed by both parties in July. It is hoped that these initiatives, in the context of both bilateral and multilateral negotiations, will facilitate and brighten the chances of lasting peace in the Middle East. After years of recession and stagnation the world economy has resumed a modest growth. However, the recovery remains fragile and uneven, and it is in the interests of both developing and developed countries to strive for accelerated growth and sustainable development. While a number of developing countries have acted as the main engines of world economic growth, most of them are beset by a deteriorating economic and social situation. Developed countries are also facing slow growth and high unemployment. In this era of growing globalization and interdependence, concerted efforts by the world community are urgently needed to resolve the acute economic and social problems. We welcome the Secretary-General's report, “An Agenda for Development”, as most timely and appropriate. The report has highlighted economic growth as a crucial dimension of development and has singled out a supportive and favourable international economic environment for sustained growth. We fully share the view that the advancement of developing countries is being hindered by such obstacles as external-debt problems, declining external resource flows, sharply deteriorating terms of trade and mounting barriers to market access. We hope that the programme of action on the implementation of the agenda will be agreed upon at this session. Our aspirations for a new world economic order which is equitable and non-discriminatory have not yet been realized. The major challenges of these decades — acceleration of development, alleviation of poverty, narrowing the widening gap among countries — need to be addressed on an urgent basis. We fully support the call by the Group of 77, the Non-Aligned Movement and the Assembly for the resumption of the stalled North- South dialogue. A constructive dialogue based on common interests and mutual benefits should enhance international economic cooperation for development. We also welcome the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round, although our aspirations were not fully realized. We had hoped for an open, equitable and transparent multilateral trading system which would benefit all countries. We are most concerned with new forms of protectionism, particularly the attempts to impose social and environmental conditions that discriminate against exports from developing countries. These protectionist measures will adversely affect world trade and growth. We are heartened by the Communiqué issued following the Naples Summit of the Group of Seven, which states that the Seven will continue efforts to enhance development assistance, trade and investment in developing countries. It states also that the Seven favour a reduction in the stock of debt and an increase in concessionality for those countries facing special difficulties. My delegation notes with appreciation the report of the Secretary-General on the status and role of cooperatives in the light of new economic and social 8 trends and welcomes the recommendations contained therein. Today, cooperative societies constitute significant components of the economies of developed and developing countries alike and play a crucial role in their economic development. In my country, we attach great importance to the cooperative sector as one of the main pillars of our economy and as an effective means of accelerating socio-economic development. It is an important part of the economic strategy of the Myanmar Government to promote and expand the cooperative sector in our national economy. As we shall next year be celebrating the centenary of the establishment of the International Cooperative Alliance, it is most fitting that the Assembly should proclaim the first Saturday of July 1995 the International Day of Cooperatives and that Member States should observe this day in future years as an annual event. The Earth Summit held in Rio two years ago firmly placed environmental issues on the global agenda, and since then hardly any international meeting has taken place without calls for common action to save our planet. The protection and promotion of the environment has emerged as one of the most pressing issues facing the world. No longer is the natural world perceived as a vast and inexhaustible frontier to be explored and exploited. Today there is growing recognition that the environment is not to be subjugated, but is to be treated with respect and care. An increasing number of countries now recognize that environmental issues warrant as much attention and effort as issues such as disarmament, narcotics and human rights. Myanmar is pleased to note that, in all of this, the region of Asia and the Pacific has not been left behind. A regional meeting to prepare for the 1995 report on the state of the environment was held in Yangon in July this year. This meeting provided senior Government officials with an opportunity to discuss, in an integrated manner, issues related to the assessment of the state of the environment at the national and regional levels. The region of Asia and the Pacific comprises a large number of nations differing in size, resource endowment and stage of economic development. It is a region facing all the conceivable environmental problems of the world - deforestation, desertification, climate change, and so on. While several countries of the region, particularly those in South-East and North-East Asia, have registered remarkable economic growth in the last few decades; others have yet to achieve their objectives. In many of our countries the eradication of poverty and greater equity in income distribution remain major challenges. Poverty and environmental degradation are closely related. Therefore, the alleviation of poverty is no longer simply a moral issue; it is a practical imperative. At the same time, achieving sustainable development will require that all countries, particularly the developed countries, change their consumption patterns. In the past we have tended to focus more on remedial measures than on the causes of environmental degradation. But if we are to overcome the challenges that we face we must deal with the underlying causes. As in the case of health care, prevention is just as important as, if not more important than, cure. We must therefore formulate strategies that will set out to alleviate poverty and provide the basic needs — food, water, clothing, shelter, energy and health care — of our peoples, while protecting the environment. Aware of the fact that poverty is the fundamental cause of environmental degradation, we in Myanmar are concentrating on breaking the vicious circle of poverty and environmental degradation. With a view to remedying the situation, the Government launched in 1989 a programme for the development of border areas and national races. This integrated approach is expected to generate higher incomes and productivity by providing employment opportunities and increased welfare. The border areas, which are inhabited by the national races, have lagged far behind in all aspects of development, owing mainly to the difficult terrain and the lack of an adequate infrastructure. However, the situation is being improved rapidly. There is extensive building of roads, bridges, schools, hospitals and reservoirs. The Government’s support for the development of mini-plants to generate hydroelectric power will result in the provision of alternative sources of energy, which will enable towns and villages to promote rural industries and, at the same time, lessen their dependence on fuel wood. This integrated rural-area-development programme will not only have positive effects on the socio-economic environment but also drastically reduce the area under shifting cultivation. The result will be conservation and the regeneration of forest resources in the fragile mountain ecosystem. The sustainable management and conservation of forests has long occupied a place of pride in Myanmar’s environmental efforts. Sustainable production from forest 9 resources and the conservation of biodiversity are assured by a forest working plan and a time-tested selective felling system. About 50 per cent of Myanmar’s total land surface is still covered by natural forests. Even though the forest area is about 33 million hectares, the prescribed allowable annual cut is less than 3 million cubic metres for teak and other hardwoods. This volume of commercial extraction is significantly less than the volume harvested by other countries in the region. The Government’s current development activities in the forest sector include the special project for greening the nine driest districts of the country; extension of the area under reserved forests; the establishment of new plantations; overall reforestation of the dry zone to provide much-needed timber and fuel wood for rural communities; and measures to improve the watersheds. Myanmar attaches high importance to population issues and recognizes the close link between population and sustainable development. We participated in the Cairo Conference, and we heartily welcome the adoption by consensus of a non-binding 20-year Programme of Action. Our population-policy focus is on voluntary birth-spacing to promote the health of mother and child. The Myanmar Maternal and Child Welfare Association — a non-- governmental organization — is actively carrying out its assigned task in this field. Much has been accomplished by the United Nations in the field of human rights. The Organization’s most recent accomplishment in this area is the appointment by consensus, at the General Assembly’s last session, of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. The appointment of such an important personage by consensus testifies to the fact that both the developed and the developing countries attach importance to the promotion and protection of human rights, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. My delegation wishes the High Commissioner every success in carrying out his mandate. As a responsible Member of the United Nations and as an unwavering advocate of the values that the Organization represents, the Union of Myanmar has always upheld and adhered to the basic norms of human rights, as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As is confirmed by the Bangkok Declaration, the principles of national sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in internal affairs should be respected by all nations, and attempts to use human rights to encroach on the essentially domestic jurisdiction of States should be avoided. In saying this we do not mean that human rights may be systematically violated behind the barrier of non-interference. We wish to see human rights promoted through cooperation and consensus-building, and not through the imposition of values that we do not share. We believe that, even as we seek universality of human rights, we must never minimize or forget diversity in historical, cultural and religious backgrounds. We are also against double standards and the temptation to use human rights as a means of achieving political ends. The right to sufficient food, clothing and shelter, the right to a decent quality of life and the right to live peacefully and in security are often neglected in the clamour for individual rights. At this delicate juncture in our history, when Myanmar is in the midst of transforming itself to a multi-party democracy with a market economy, the interests of its 45 million people as a whole must take precedence over the interests of any individual. Confrontation and incitement to unrest and instability have no place when the nation is in the process of reconciliation and reconsolidation. In keeping with the aspirations of all the national races, Myanmar is also at present at the critical stage of drafting a firm constitution. My Government would certainly not like to see the present momentum of the constitutional process and the efforts for national reconciliation impeded in any way, nor can it allow a return to the chaos and anarchy of the incidents of 1988. The Myanmar Government does not condone human rights abuses. In fact, it is totally against them. We have cooperated fully with the United Nations in every field and, in this regard, with the Commission on Human Rights by providing information in connection with communications and queries concerning the situation in Myanmar. Not only have we provided information sought by the Commission, but we have also received the Independent Experts and the Special Rapporteur appointed by the Commission on Human Rights. The Special Rapporteur, Mr. Yozo Yokota, was received in 1992 and in 1993. In deference to the United Nations and as a gesture of our goodwill and cooperation, we will receive him again this year. 10 The Memorandum of Understanding between Myanmar and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) signed on 5 November 1993, setting out UNHCR’s role in Myanmar’s border development projects, is an illustration of our steady cooperation with the United Nations and its subsidiary bodies. It is normal that some issues should arise from time to time between neighbouring States. In such cases, we always seek peaceful solutions based on mutual goodwill, respect and understanding. A case in point is the matter of transport and movement of people between Myanmar and Bangladesh across our common border. Although some quarters tried to exaggerate the situation by invoking potential regional destabilization, our two countries were able to resolve the situation in a spirit of mutual friendship and understanding resulting in the repatriation so far of nearly 70,000 returnees to their hearths and homes. At the initiative of the Secretary-General, Myanmar decided to establish a dialogue with the United Nations to exchange views on various issues of common concern. I should like briefly to apprise the Assembly of the developments leading to this decision. During his visit to Myanmar in March this year, Under-Secretary-General Mr. Rafeeudin Ahmed, Executive Secretary of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), delivered a letter and a verbal message from the Secretary-General to Secretary I of the State Law and Order Restoration Council. The Secretary- General, in his letter, made constructive remarks in regard to the measures taken by the Myanmar Government and showed keen interest in the developments in Myanmar, particularly the process of national reconciliation and steps taken in drafting a firm constitution through the National Convention. The Secretary-General also expressed his desire to establish a dialogue with the Government of the Union of Myanmar to exchange views on the various issues with a view to considering how the United Nations could assist in facilitating continued progress towards the resolution of these issues. Secretary I, in his acknowledgment, informed the Secretary-General that a communication would be made on this subject in the near future. While attending the Ministerial Meeting of the Association of South-East Asian Nations in Bangkok, I transmitted, through the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Thailand, on 21 July 1994, our initial response to the Secretary-General. Further to this response, the Myanmar Government informed the Executive Secretary of ESCAP that the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Myanmar had been designated to initiate the dialogue proposed by the Secretary-General at a mutually agreeable date and, in this regard, sought his advice on the modalities of carrying out such a dialogue more fruitfully. I am happy to apprise the Assembly through you, Sir, that I had two meetings earlier this month with Mr. Marrack Goulding, Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs of the United Nations, and that the dialogue between the Myanmar Government and the United Nations is now well under way. The global spread of drug abuse has become a major international concern in recent years. The evil consequences of illicit drugs transcend borders and the threat of illicit drugs can be overcome only with effective international cooperation. We share the view that concerted action is needed at the national, subregional, regional and global levels. Myanmar has always treated anti-narcotics measures as a national responsibility. At the national level, the Government has adopted comprehensive plans for the effective implementation of drug-suppression measures. A new law against narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances was enacted in 1993, encompassing effective measures against the widening scope of the drug menace. In our national strategies against drugs, a new approach was launched in 1988, the key concept of which was to alleviate the poverty of the peoples of the border areas by providing them with a means of alternative income, while at the same time working to raise their awareness of the magnitude of human misery resulting from drugs. This approach is being carried out as one of the main objectives of our master plan for the development of the border areas and national races. It is evident that the most effective approach to the eradication of poppy cultivation would be to implement a comprehensive programme for the social and economic development of the national races in the border areas. We have now established a mechanism for coordinating action against illicit drugs in all their aspects. We have also been coordinating our national efforts with those of our neighbours to ensure a maximum impact in drug eradication in the region. The Myanmar Government has signed agreements with the People’s Republic of China and the United Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), as well as with Thailand and the UNDCP. Bilateral narcotics-suppression agreements have been signed with Laos and India, and we aim to work out a similar agreement with Bangladesh. In 11 October 1993, in New York, Myanmar, the People’s Republic of China, Laos, Thailand and the UNDCP signed a Memorandum of Understanding which would further harmonize collective activities aimed at reducing drug trafficking and production, eliminating poppy cultivation and reducing drug demand and consumption. There have been two ministerial conferences at the subregional level in which Myanmar has actively participated. Myanmar is a State party to the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and to the 1988 United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. Moreover, on 7 June this year Myanmar deposited the instrument of accession to the United Nations Convention on Psychotropic Substances. We are also carrying out a series of measures in implementation of the recommendations contained in the Global Programme of Action adopted at the seventeenth special session of the General Assembly in February 1990. Members of the Myanmar security forces are engaged in a relentless war against drug trafficking. They may not be wearing blue helmets like the men and women from different lands serving as guardians of peace under the United Nations banner, but the cause for which hundreds of them have sacrificed life and limb is no less internationalist and no less worthy. There are those who express doubt about our commitment to the eradication of narcotics, and I would ask them: “Which country in the world has sacrificed the lives of over 190 soldiers, with an additional 350 wounded, in the combat against drug traffickers in a matter of only four weeks?” With this serious dedication and commitment in the fight against illicit drugs, we in Myanmar are ready and willing to cooperate fully with all our neighbours and the international community for sustained efforts against this scourge. Myanmar is a union of over 100 different national races residing there. Unity among the different national races is essential for the preservation of our independence and sovereignty as well as for the economic and social progress of our country. Since regaining independence in 1948, Myanmar unfortunately has had to face internal strife started by various armed groups. Because of this, the country has suffered immensely and lagged behind in economic development in comparison with other nations of the region. In these dire circumstances, it is only natural that the State Law and Order Restoration Council should attach the utmost importance to the preservation of independence and the strengthening of unity and national solidarity among all the national races of Myanmar. Since it assumed the responsibilities of the State, the State Law and Order Restoration Council has given priority to the achievement of national reconciliation. Beginning in 1989, less than one year after it assumed responsibility, the Government made overtures to the armed groups to return to the legal fold. Since April 1992, the armed forces have suspended military offensives against the armed groups in the interest of national reconciliation. Over four decades of internal strife has not benefited anyone, but has only caused death and destruction and untold suffering for the people. No one appreciates peace more than a soldier. It is therefore most gratifying that a total of 12 groups having trust in the sincerity of the Government’s offer have returned to the legal fold and are working together with the Government for the development of their regions. These groups are also being provided with the opportunity to participate in the national political process — the National Convention — to shape the country’s future. With the Shan State Nationalities Peoples’ Liberation Organization, which returned to the legal fold on 9 October 1994, the armed groups in the reconciliation process now number 13. They will be integrated in the same manner as previous groups that are participating in the National Convention. To the remaining groups that have yet to return to the legal fold, the Myanmar Government reiterates its call not to miss this golden opportunity but to join hands in building a peaceful, democratic and modern union. Guns have fallen silent in the country as never before in the history of modern Myanmar, and these groups should look at the greater interest of the country and work for the benefit of all the national races, in accordance with the proclamations they themselves have been making for so long. At this juncture, let me turn to another aspect of the Government’s objectives: the drafting of a firm and enduring constitution. Towards this end, a National Convention has been meeting since the beginning of last year to draft a new constitution. Consensus has already been reached on the 15 chapter headings for the 104 fundamental principles of the State and for the chapters on State, State structure and Head of State. At the resumed session of the National Convention, which commenced on 2 September 1994, the Chairman of the National Convention Convening Work Committee elucidated the points relative to the matter of self- administered divisions or self-administered zones in the 12 Union, and to constituting the legislative, executive and judicial branches for detailed discussions and deliberations among the delegates. As for those who allege that the process is moving too slowly, let me ask: Is the world today not full of examples where too much haste has led to chaos and confusion, even to armed conflict and the disintegration of nations? At the same time, let me assure the Assembly that the State Law and Order Restoration Council has no intention of unnecessarily prolonging the process or causing delays. However, a balance must be struck between the need to reach consensus among the nearly 700 delegates on very urgent and vital issues, such as the national races, and the desire for the process to be completed in timely fashion. Anyone following these deliberations closely will realize that they lucidly give the lie to the allegations that the deliberations in the National Convention were orchestrated by the Government. At the same time, I wish to indicate to certain observers that in our society reaching consensus is more important than debating who is right or wrong or who won the debate. We would like the constitution to reflect as much as possible the wishes of the national races, while at the same time we would be most happy if consensus on the remaining chapters could be reached as soon as possible. What the Government has done, and is doing at the moment, is to ensure peace, stability, law and order while striving for the economic development of the entire nation so that the transition to democracy will be smooth and tranquil. Today the National Convention is in full session for further discussions on the fundamental principles to be enshrined in the new constitution. The very fact that the new State structure will be a union system is a manifestation of the consensus that has been reached by the Convention. The new Union of Myanmar that is envisaged by the National Convention will be a genuine multi-party, democratic State in order to bring the nation modernity, unity, stability, peace and harmony. The new constitution will have safeguards to guarantee non-disintegration of the Union, non-disintegration of national solidarity and perpetuation of sovereignty and territorial integrity. As in the case of other modern Constitutions, the three organs of government - the legislative, executive and judicial — will be properly constituted and separated as much as possible and will be able to exert reciprocal control with checks and balances among themselves. Among the fundamental principles already laid down, independent administration of justice in accordance with the law, administration of justice in public except where restricted by law, the right to defence and the right of appeal will be guaranteed. Furthermore, there will be constitutional remedies, and the Supreme Court will have the power to issue writs. Citizens will be able to enjoy the rule of law, which is the fundamental legal safeguard necessary for a democratic State. Because of the separation of powers envisaged in the new constitution, the judiciary will be the ultimate guardian of fundamental rights. Freedom of thought, freedom of expression, freedom of belief, freedom of worship, freedom to seek a livelihood and freedom of organization will be guaranteed. There will be equality of status, equality of opportunity and equality before the law. The entire Myanmar nation is currently engaged in our national endeavour to establish a truly democratic and modern society in accordance with the aspirations of our people. We the people of the Union of Myanmar are doing our utmost to advance the ongoing political and constitutional process and the current programme of national economic development in the interest of all our national brethren. We have a popular saying in Myanmar: “As we sow in our deeds, so shall we surely reap in our future destiny.” We are therefore fully confident that, with continued dedication, determination and diligence in our national endeavour, we will surely be able to successfully establish a democratic society based on the universal values of justice, liberty and equality. I should like to congratulate Mr. Essy of Côte d’Ivoire on his election to the post of President of the General Assembly of the United Nations at its forty-ninth session. I wish him much success in this highly responsible mission. At the same time, I should like to thank Mr. Essy’s predecessor as President, His Excellency Ambassador Insanally, for his great personal contribution to the success of the last session of the General Assembly. I also avail myself of this opportunity to express deep appreciation of all the work and effort of the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, as the head of the United Nations. Allow me to open my statement with a personal remark. During the past few years we have witnessed dynamic changes in world politics. The dynamism of development in international life is reflected in my personal life. In the course of the past four years I have represented two States as their Ambassador to the United Nations. Today I am honoured and proud to represent one of them - my native country, Slovakia - as its Minister of Foreign Affairs. The fact that the Permanent Representative to the United Nations was nominated as the Minister of Foreign Affairs of his country is yet another manifestation of the respect that the United Nations enjoys in Slovakia. The fact that my country, less than two years after its admission to membership of the United Nations, became a full-fledged component of the community of nations is confirmation of the credibility of our foreign policy, which is based on respect for international law and for principles of democratic coexistence among nations. It is also a result of the implementation of our foreign- policy principles, which originate from the hierarchy of values of Slovak society. These values are characterized by respect for democracy, human rights and a free-market economy. It is evident that Slovakia, as a small country in the geopolitically sensitive central European region, must have a transparent and clearly defined orientation in its 20 foreign policy. We therefore aim our activities at European integrationist trends and strive to join the stable, democratic and prosperous countries. Joining the European Union and participating actively in the elaboration of an efficient model of European security are among the main priorities of Slovak foreign policy. Our international contacts are, of course, much wider and are of a more multilateral character. We are interested in the best possible relations with neighbouring countries. I am glad to state that we have recently managed to fulfil this aim successfully. We believe that subregional arrangements, such as Visegrad 4 or the central European initiative, also help to strengthen the stability of the whole region. Close contacts with western European countries - and these are being strengthened in respect of economic, political and security matters - also contribute to the fulfilment of this objective. At the global level, the priority of the Slovak Republic, which is part of the European region, is the maintenance of solid transatlantic relations through the development of intensive cooperation with the United States of America and Canada, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Further, we consider the development of cooperation with our eastern neighbours - Ukraine, the Russian Federation and other countries - as being especially important. Regardless of the fact that Slovakia is a small central European country, we strive to maintain and further develop good relations and cooperation with the countries of Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Pacific region. Our tasks and goals are very demanding, and their fulfilment depends on sufficient support from the public and on the consensus of the major political parties. I am glad to state that in Slovakia there is wide public and political agreement on the principal issues of our foreign policy. This is a positive signal for foreign countries, which can count on Slovakia as a reliable partner. As I indicated at the beginning of my statement, today’s world is defined by dynamic changes that are due to the growing multipolarity of international relations. Many important events that occurred in the last year advanced the international community towards achievement of the goals of the United Nations - to guarantee the peaceful coexistence of nations - but there have also been events that cannot fill us with optimism. One positive event has been the peace process in the Middle East. Slovakia has supported this process from the very beginning with the aim of reaching a comprehensive and final peaceful settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict. The conclusion of agreements between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization on the provision of limited autonomy in the zone of the Gaza Strip and Jericho, and the Jordan-Israeli declaration on terminating the state of war, as well as on measures to settle mutual relations, justified once more the peace efforts of the parties involved, as well as those of the international community, which is convinced that peace can be restored in this region. We also welcome the democratization of South African society demonstrated by the elections in April of this year. Though South Africa is far from Slovakia, we put special emphasis on the continuation of this development. The visit of the President of the Slovak Republic to South Africa for the inauguration of President Mandela is evidence of this. On the other hand, even these positive examples will not help us in successfully ending conflicts in other parts of the world. We are deeply concerned over the continuing conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is taking place some 300 kilometres from our borders. Slovakia is among the countries that yearn for an end to the continuing tragedy in that country. We wish to underline the superiority of a political solution to a military one, which by definition cannot eliminate the antagonism between the opposing sides. The Slovak Republic, as a user of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, is a State without nuclear weapons. We therefore support a speedy signing of the comprehensive test-ban treaty. We wish to emphasize that such a treaty should apply to all tests without exception and for an indefinite period, including tests for peaceful purposes. Sustaining the moratorium on nuclear tests by all members of the nuclear club is considered by Slovakia to be the main precondition for concluding such a treaty, and at the same time, it is a clear sign of the real intentions of the nuclear club members. We consider next year’s Review Conference of the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) to be closely linked to the nuclear-test ban. The NPT has been playing an important role in the history of humanity, and has managed to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We support unequivocally the unconditional and indefinite extension of the NPT. The Slovak Republic appreciates the steps undertaken at the United Nations in the sphere of 21 transparency in armaments, whether conventional or chemical and biological. We welcome the first positive universal step regarding conventional weapons: the establishment of the Register of Conventional Arms. The verification level of the existing multilateral treaties is in most cases either inadequate or incomplete. Many of the multilateral treaties on arms control do not contain verification clauses - and if they do contain such clauses, they do not make full use of verification, as in the case of the NPT. I believe that the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction will be a test case for a new type of multilateral treaty on disarmament. The ratification of this agreement is among the top priorities in the agenda of our Parliament. I can assure the Assembly that Slovakia is fulfilling responsibly and in a timely manner the obligations concerning confidence building, security, control of armaments and disarmament that have been undertaken at universal and regional negotiating forums. We firmly support all disarmament activities; hence we are well aware of the important role of the Conference on Disarmament in this field. I would like to confirm the permanent interest of the Slovak Republic in resolving the issue of its membership in the Conference, since the former Czechoslovak federation was a founding member of the Conference. It is truly a paradox that a country in which arms production decreased to 9 per cent of its 1989 level is not yet a member of the Conference. We are aware of the need to improve existing organizational structures and strengthen cooperation between the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) as a regional arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. The CSCE continues to adapt to the new realities. Slovakia, however, is of the opinion that the basic character of the CSCE should not change. It should remain a wide political forum and its basic principle - the adoption of decisions by consensus - should be maintained. Peace-keeping operations are currently at a level that is perhaps the highest that the international community can provide and sustain. They drain our financial resources, while not even sparing human lives. The original enthusiasm for peace-keeping operations has gradually cooled down with the knowledge that there are many obstacles that the United Nations cannot overcome. The tragic situation in Rwanda, where even the presence of United Nations forces could not avert a civil war and massacres, is a clear example. The United Nations peace- keeping operation on the territory of the former Yugoslavia has also encountered serious problems. The Slovak Republic has a contingent of 600 soldiers in the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) - members of the engineering unit who among their military tasks provide highly specialized expert work and assistance in restoring that country, which has suffered so much tribulation. Along with their efforts in the maintenance of peace, they have undertaken the dangerous task of removing mines from the country. Slovakia strongly supports President Clinton’s appeal in his statement before the General Assembly on Monday for the conclusion of an agreement that would reduce the number and availability of anti-personnel land-mines. I would like to mention that Slovakia, in accordance with resolution 48/75 K, has already implemented, on 17 April 1994, a moratorium on the export of anti-personnel land- mines for an indefinite period. In connection with United Nations efforts to resolve several problems that have arisen in the field of peace- keeping operations, the Slovak Republic welcomes the decision to establish stand-by forces that can be dispatched on short notice and under the command of the United Nations. We have declared our interest in contributing to these units with engineers of the Slovak Army. Such units need highly specialized and thorough preparation and training designed for specific purposes. My country is in the process of building such a training centre and has already used it to train more than 1,200 members of United Nations peace-keeping forces since May of this year. Experience has shown that the traditional type of peace-keeping operation is no longer sufficient. If a peace-keeping operation is to succeed it should contain a humanitarian element. Slovakia is of the opinion that in any operation under United Nations auspices and with United Nations coordination it is necessary to respect the principle of the priority of United Nations command. In connection with the increased number of attacks against United Nations personnel, the Slovak Republic appreciates the Assembly’s decision at its forty-eighth session to elaborate an international convention dealing with the safety and security of United Nations and associated personnel. The next step the United Nations should consider is providing proper armament and other matériel for members of peace-keeping missions so that they might be able to react more appropriately to 22 changing conditions and if necessary be able to defend themselves. The Slovak Republic respects human rights and welcomes all international initiatives which could bring results in this sphere. We highly appreciate the commencement of the activities of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. We believe that this post will be an active United Nations instrument to guarantee the protection of human rights, especially where they are most flagrantly violated. At the beginning of 1994 we opened the Slovak National Centre for Human Rights in Bratislava. In this connection, I wish to express our gratitude to the Netherlands for its assistance in establishing this institution. The gravity of the problem of refugees continues to increase. I express the hope that the United Nations will not underestimate this problem and that the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees will no longer have to fight financial problems in future. The Slovak Republic supports the reform of the United Nations. It considers the revitalization and restructuring of the Security Council to be one of the crucial issues. We hope that the solution adopted will increase the efficiency of the Security Council and will contribute to the overall strengthening of the United Nations. We are of the opinion that new permanent members of the Security Council must have a global responsibility and be able to meet the ensuing financial obligations. When the mandate of the Security Council is fulfilled and sanctions are implemented, more attention should be paid to possible adverse impacts on third countries. We are convinced that effective mechanisms of assistance to affected third countries should be seriously considered and established as soon as possible. Slovakia encounters many problems connected with the transformation of society. It is crucial to solve the economic and social issues of a transition process unprecedented in scale and method. The United Nations, with its organs and specialized agencies, has an irreplaceable role in assisting their solution. I should now like to give some facts on the economic situation of the Slovak Republic. Now that the first, basic steps of transformation have been taken, the main goal of the Slovak economy is to create permanent macroeconomic stability and conditions for substantial economic growth in the years to come. My country, with 5.3 million inhabitants and with exports about 50 per cent of gross domestic product, can be considered a small, open economy. The Slovak Government is concentrating on speeding up those reforms which should result in the quick transformation of ownership relations. Considerable progress has been made in macroeconomic stabilization in the first six months of 1994. Real gross domestic product has increased by 4.4 per cent. The State budget deficit represents only 3.8 per cent of gross domestic product, and is considered a positive indicator. Thanks to cooperation with, and assistance from, the International Monetary Fund, the foreign currency reserves of the Central Bank have increased. These data are considered to be the first sign of economic revival. Economic cooperation and, within its framework, international assistance are prerequisites for further development of economies in transition. United Nations organs and specialized agencies cooperate intensively with my Government. Thanks to this cooperation, the economic situation is substantially better than had been anticipated, and the Slovak Republic has become an accepted international partner in economic cooperation. The Slovak Republic welcomes the increased attention by, and efforts of, the United Nations aimed at bringing the issues of development and economic cooperation to the foreground. We hope that the agenda for development will initiate concrete steps in this sphere. We particularly appreciate the efforts of the United Nations in helping to resolve problems and difficulties encountered by the countries transforming their economies, and we are of the opinion that within the United Nations framework there are more opportunities to facilitate and speed up the integration of these economies into the world economy. In the past decade the number of least developed countries has increased horrendously. This results in an urgent appeal to all mankind, but especially the industrially developed countries. However, at the same time we cannot avoid the primary responsibility of the least developed countries for their own destiny. The Slovak Republic offers assistance, within its own means and possibilities, especially through the participation of Slovak experts in development programmes - for example, in education and health care. Slovakia is prepared to engage in organizational work for the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty, 1996. I should also like to emphasize the importance of the recently concluded International Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo. The fact that it 23 succeeded in reaching an agreement and adopting the Final Document is a signal that the international community is aware of its responsibility for global issues of humanity, and that international conferences and discussions are the only right battlefield for the solution of problems, no matter how sensitive and complicated they may be. As can be seen from the facts I have set out, Slovakia, as one of the youngest Members of the United Nations, wishes not only to 'take', but also intends to be actively involved in United Nations programmes, and has the capabilities. My country has much to offer developing countries. Slovak experts, with their know-how and experience, are prepared actively to participate in United Nations development programmes. Slovak products and technologies tested under demanding conditions could contribute to the efficiency of these development programmes. In the sphere of the development of human resources, Slovakia, with a long tradition in this field, offers a variety of courses at universities. My country has a difficult task to carry out: transformation of the economy. The United Nations also has a difficult task; that of adapting itself to the new realities and adjusting its structure and activities accordingly. I wish to assure the Assembly that the Slovak Republic is prepared to do its utmost to carry out the first task and to participate actively in the activities of the United Nations. I wish to conclude my statement by wishing much success to this year’s session of the General Assembly. Allow me, Sir, to convey to you on behalf of the people and Government of Chad, our heartfelt congratulations on your unanimous election to preside over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. It was a resounding tribute to your country, whose devotion to peace and dialogue is well known. Not simply Côte d’Ivoire, but the whole of Africa has thus been honoured. We should like to take this opportunity to salute the memory of the late President Félix Houphouët-Boigny, whose renown as a statesman extended beyond our continent. I should also like to convey heartfelt thanks to your predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Rudolph Insanally of Guyana, for the skill with which he conducted the business of our previous session. Finally, I wish to express our profound gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedication to international peace and security, to which he has contributed with “An Agenda for Peace”, now supplemented by “An Agenda for Development”. We welcome the return to this Hall of South Africa, a South Africa now free of apartheid. We welcome it and wish every success to President Nelson Mandela, whose tenacity should once again be commended. The picture of the international situation following the end of the cold war is mixed, being one of both hope and uncertainty. The evolving peace process in the Middle East is an important step towards the achievement of a comprehensive, just and lasting settlement of a crisis which has persisted for too long. We pay warm tribute to the Israeli and Palestinian leaders who, with their foresightedness and sense of history, have taken this decisive step. We venture to hope that the peoples of this region, sorely in need of peace, have the benefit of the wholehearted support of the international community. We also commend the efforts now going on to restore democracy to Haiti. Chad has also been following with interest the process under way in Mozambique, and we hope that the elections to be held on 27 and 28 October will pave the way to a new era of peace and prosperity. However, grim situations still continue. How can one fail to be outraged at the daily events occurring in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Rwanda, Liberia, Afghanistan or Somalia? Chad, which has been through three decades of conflict, sympathizes with the tragic experience of the peoples of these countries and condemns practices based on ethnic, racial and religious criteria, practices which belong to the past. This was one of the reasons which prompted my Government to make a modest contribution, first, by its military presence with the French force in Opération Turquoise, and then in the second United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda. Chad urges the United Nations to continue its tireless, energetic peacemaking and peace-keeping efforts and asks the parties involved in any conflict to attach greater importance to dialogue. In this regard, we welcome developments in the ongoing talks to bring lasting peace to Angola. We appeal for a speedy solution to the question of the embargo afflicting the Libyan people, a solution in keeping with resolutions of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. The proliferation of armed conflicts in Africa is a great challenge to us. Chad therefore makes an urgent appeal to the international community to give its wholehearted support to the OAU’s machinery for conflict-prevention, conflict-management and the settlement of conflicts. Conflicts of any kind are always a disaster for the human race. Therefore, in order to save present and 11 future generations from the danger of a nuclear holocaust, my country supports the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Conventional weapons are a permanent source of concern for Chad. That is why we support resolution 48/75 E and welcome the initiative by President Alpha Omar Konare of Mali to halt the proliferation of such weapons in our region. Economic development is a constant concern of the international community. That is why the various initiatives and discussions on the subject, as well as the apt analysis in the Agenda for Development, deserve careful consideration at this session. The worsening economic crisis, marked by chronic indebtedness and the drop in the price of raw materials in developing countries in general, and in Africa in particular, has torn at the weak social fabric and threatened the stability of States. This explains the spread of phenomena such as juvenile delinquency, widespread drug-trafficking and organized crime. However, we look forward to the World Summit for Social Development to be held in Copenhagen next year, and to the World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing, also next year. They will give the international community an opportunity to discuss today’s challenges and to try to improve the lives of millions of human beings. I now turn to Chad, where the democratic process which began with the coming to power of the Patriotic Salvation Movement is continuing, to the satisfaction of all, thanks to the wisdom of our President, His Excellency Colonel Idriss Déby, who has honoured the spirit and the letter of the historic declaration of 4 December 1990 to establish a State of law. The Sovereign National Conference organized, in a spirit of transparency, with the participation of citizens of Chad of all strata and all political leanings in the presence of foreign observers, adopted a consistent, comprehensive strategy. It thus reflected the general consensus on resolving all our problems, and in particular the creation of a State that respects the rule of law. To that end, a schedule was worked out and transitional institutions were established. At the last session, my delegation took note of progress made towards democratization. I am happy to say from this rostrum that the transition in Chad is proceeding normally thanks to cooperation between the three organs, the presidency, the primature and the Higher Transitional Council. In order to keep within our deadlines, the framework agreement was reduced to more realistic proportions, backed up inter alia by the following priorities: the elaboration of a constitution and texts to govern the upcoming elections; the establishment of a national reconciliation committee consisting of governmental representatives, representatives of the provisional parliament, political parties and civilians. That committee has already achieved some results by signing certain agreements with some organizations, in particular the Bangui II Agreement. We express gratitude to His Excellency Ange Félix Patassé, President of the Central African Republic, for the decisive role he has played throughout the negotiations. At the same time the national reconciliation committee is continuing its contacts with other political and military groups. Our Government is confident that definitive peace will be restored to our country. Considerable progress has been made in the restructuring of the national army but much remains to be done because of the complexity of the problem of demobilizing elements and reintegrating them into civilian life. We reiterate once more our appeal to the international community to provide assistance in carrying out this essential programme for lasting peace in Chad. The signing of a social covenant concluded between the Government and the trade unions took place on 1 July 1994. It restored social peace and is the reason for the important progress that has been made in applying the provisions of the framework agreement. Equally important progress has also been made in other areas. I wish to speak now of human rights and freedoms. For almost four years now we have seen the unprecedented establishment of several independent newspapers, the formation of many political parties, 49 of which have been legalized, and the creation of unions and human rights associations. The recent establishment of the Supreme Council for Communications is another guarantee of freedom of expression, opinion and information. I turn now to human rights. My country, which has experienced one of the most cruel and misguided dictatorships, attaches great importance to the promotion 12 and defence of these rights. The ratification of various international instruments and, more recently, the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the establishment of the National Commission for Human Rights and the authorization provided by my Government for the visit to Chad of an independent expert from the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, attest to this will. The Government of the Republic of Chad is therefore surprised that certain press organs, certain human rights associations and organizations, manipulated by those who are fighting for power, have launched a campaign that is seeking to mislead international opinion by spreading false information about Chad. I wish to draw attention to the special situation in my country, where there are many political and military groups equipped with weapons, as a consequence of the long conflict. The abuses committed by uncontrolled groups cannot and should not be attributed to Government policy to violate human rights. I should like, therefore, to take this opportunity to call on all countries and governmental and non-governmental organizations that are interested in Chad and in the future of its people to come to my country to establish the facts. Free democratic elections will be organized at the beginning of next year in keeping with the timetable established by the framework agreement. On 7 October 1994 His Excellency Colonel Idriss Déby, Head of State, once again reaffirmed his determination to respect the timetable for the elections to give the country reliable democratic institutions, inter alia, to guarantee the rights of all citizens. Accordingly, we ask our traditional partners to assist the Government of Chad to conclude this delicate mission which require many resources. I now turn to the question of the border dispute that existed between my country and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. On 3 February 1994 the International Court of Justice in its Judgment put an end to this 20-year-old conflict. An Agreement on the practical modalities for the implementation of that Judgment was signed on 4 April 1994 in Surt. In keeping with the Agreement the withdrawal of Libyan troops from the Aouzou Strip was carried out according to an agreed timetable and under the supervision of United Nations observers. Now all that remains to be done is to make a reality of the border as defined between the two countries. I wish to reiterate my sincere thanks to all those who have contributed directly or indirectly to the peaceful solution of this dispute and our gratitude to the United Nations. This fortunate outcome, which reflects the pre- eminence of negotiation over confrontation, is a reason for hope in the matter of prevention and resolution of conflicts. In the framework of the rehabilitation of the Aouzou Strip and the reintegration of the local population, Chad has already set up a technical committee to study the various aspects of rehabilitation, particularly the restoration of infrastructure, the cultivation of our oases, and the restoration of our education and public health systems. We should also create an environment conducive to all these actions by carrying out mine clearance and disinfecting wells that were poisoned during the occupation. We appeal to the entire international community to help us to carry out this programme. Chad, like many other countries in Africa, is confronting an unprecedented economic and financial crisis. Existing difficulties have been compounded by the devaluation of the CFA franc, which has wiped out all the efforts by the Government within the structural adjustment framework. My country regrets the fact that the steps to accompany the devaluation have not been entirely honoured. We urge some of our partners to comply with their commitments in this respect. Chad is a country which is half desert and has suffered a rapid degradation of its environment because of its lack of energy resources and we welcome, therefore, the signing on 17 June 1994 in Paris of the International Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa. We hope that the provisions of the Convention will not remain a dead letter. While in the Sahel rain is welcomed enthusiastically, the rainfall, which has been particularly abundant this year, has caused flooding in many regions of my country, causing serious damage to crops and leaving many families homeless. At the same time an epidemic of cholera has broken out in some cities in Chad. We are working together with our various partners, United Nations agencies and non-governmental organizations to deal with these situations following appeals made respectively by the Ministers of Agriculture and Health. 13 The United Nations will celebrate its fiftieth anniversary next year. To meet the many challenges we must adapt to present changes. Therefore my country supports the common African position on restructuring and the revitalization of the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields. I turn now to the Security Council. I wish to recall that the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Chad stated from this rostrum on 8 October 1976 that “The Security Council, whose principal role is to safeguard international peace and security, should reflect the geographical composition of the international community.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-first Session, Plenary Meetings, 23rd meeting, para. 22) In the light of ongoing discussion of this question, we reiterate this position because it is a requirement of our time. I cannot conclude my statement without saying that we hope that the work of the present session will yield answers to our legitimate concerns. Allow me first to extend to Ambassador Amara Essy heartfelt congratulations on his unanimous election to preside over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. His election is a fitting tribute both to him and to his country, Côte d’Ivoire. While expressing our confidence in his skills and capacity to guide this session to a successful conclusion, I wish to assure him of the full cooperation of my delegation in the discharge of the heavy responsibility he has assumed. I wish also to join the heads of delegations who spoke before me in the very pleasant task of welcoming the new democratic South Africa into the United Nations. The recent happy events in South Africa mark a turning point in the history of Africa. They have opened up new vistas for fruitful economic cooperation across the African continent and have allowed the international community to be victorious over institutional racism. It has now been a few years since the international community entered into a new era that is relatively free of ideological polarization. The nuclear confrontation that had haunted the international community before the end of the cold war is now more or less behind us. The demise of the cold war has in this regard contributed to the lifting of the thick veil that had hindered the appreciation of our interdependence. None of the major problems of the present world can be effectively dealt with in the absence of an approach that takes seriously the fact that we live in an interdependent world. The challenges of the environment, the problems of climate change, the unrestrained growth in population and questions of economic growth and development, among others, are all issues that call for greater cooperation between States. It is not too early for us to assess to what extent the international community has taken advantage of new opportunities and, with the major obstacles to joint action having now been removed, how much progress the world has made in addressing the critical problems facing us. Some of these ostensibly affect only part of humanity, but, in fact, are directly or indirectly the problems of the international community as a whole. The ever-deteriorating economic and social conditions faced by the majority of the peoples in the developing world and the abject poverty in which they are condemned to live are the most critical challenge facing the world. The effects of this reality reverberate through all aspects of international life, and they impinge on all issues now routinely accepted as the common challenges of the international community. Actions designed to deal with concerns related to international peace and security, to the environment, to climate change, to population growth and development and to a host of other interrelated concerns will remain only off-target and, at best, partial measures if most of the developing world is allowed to continue to wallow in poverty, and if, as a consequence, despair and hopelessness continue to be the dominant mood of present and future generations in the South. In Africa, for instance, where a genuine fear of marginalization in international economic cooperation has in recent years become the prevailing mood, much of the explanation for the scale, intensity and duration of the conflicts must be sought in the continent’s continuing economic decline and in the consequent social malaise and hopelessness generated by that sad reality. The economic history of Africa over the last two decades is 21 one of precipitate decline. The 1980s was a lost decade, but the first half of the present one is proving to be no better. Each African conflict may have its own unique local as well as extra-local features, but all of them, in one way or another, grow out of the humanly impossible economic and social situations that provide societies with neither hope nor a future. From Liberia to Somalia and from Rwanda to Burundi, what Africa has been witnessing in recent years is the virtual collapse, under the weight of unbearable economic and social difficulties, not only of State structures but also of traditional values and norms of social organization. It seems therefore overdue for the United Nations, when it comes to addressing conflict situations such as those in Africa, to think and to act with the clear assumption that traditional notions of preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping and peace-making, although important, are not enough to maintain the peace and to make it durable. 'An Agenda for Peace' will be far from sufficient if it doe not go side by side with, and made an integral part of, 'An Agenda for Development'. In our part of the world, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) took up a huge challenge when it decided to increase its capacity by setting up a mechanism for the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts. This is an important step that requires the effective assistance of the international community, and we are appreciative of the support already being given to the OAU by some countries. But we have no illusions: even if the OAU had the capacity required to carry out its mandate in preventive diplomacy, it would not necessarily be able to make substantial inroads in ensuring durable peace in the continent. Nor can the United Nations and the international community do any better unless the challenges faced in connection with preventive measures in the economic and social areas are taken up in the most serious manner and unless the economic and social decline of Africa is reversed. The bottom line is that no African country can categorically be said to be immune from the political and social consequences of the immense level of economic decline, which can be arrested only with the requisite level of international economic cooperation and development partnership. This, incidentally, could also be a way to arrest and contain all varieties of extremism. It seems to us that it is only with the foregoing in mind and with the full appreciation of the very complex nature of some of the conflict situations in Africa that the United Nations can be an effective factor for peace in Africa. This approach would also allow the international community to appreciate fully actual movement, no matter how small, in the right direction towards the resolution of specific conflict situations in Africa. The validity of this is most clearly to be seen in the prevailing situation in Somalia. More than a few still view the situation in Somalia as having shown no improvement and believe that conditions in that country have in fact deteriorated. That view is probably the major reason for the increasing calls for the speedy withdrawal of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) from Somalia. That view is also certainly behind the latest Security Council resolution on Somalia. The situation in Somalia, and most particularly in some parts of that country, is clearly still far from normal, and there is no question that the overall situation in the country is very fluid. The international community’s frustration at the slow pace of the national- reconciliation process and at the lack of sufficient commitment by all sides in Somalia to their responsibility to sort out their own problems as speedily as possible is also understandable, and this is also our concern. But the feeling that conditions in the country have become hopeless and that the general trend in Somalia holds no promise is not born of what has been taking place there since late last year. That the situation in Somalia today, from the point of view both of the level of armed clashes and of dialogue between Somalis of all factions, is far better than it was a year ago, or indeed a few months ago, cannot seriously be doubted. No one can pretend to have a ready-made solution to the problem of power-sharing in Somalia, which has been one of the major hurdles preventing national reconciliation. The OAU and the countries of the subregion have continued to do everything possible to assist the Somalis to meet this challenge, firmly convinced that the agenda for peace and national reconciliation in the country should be set by Somalis themselves and that the role of extra-Somali parties, including that of UNOSOM, is to assist in the process. We believe that this has been a very fruitful approach. It is the one that has been adopted from the very beginning by President Meles Zenawi, whose OAU colleagues have 22 given him the responsibility of following developments in Somalia. From his station in Mogadishu, President Meles’s envoy has been maintaining very close contact with the various Somali factions. Our general assessment is that the trends in Somalia are encouraging and that the Somalis are taking the first hesitant steps to sort out their problems. Although there is no guarantee of success, the general thrust of developments in Somalia is worthy of the support of the international community. At this time last year UNOSOM was engaged in heavy combat with some Somali factions, and its presence in Somalia did not enjoy universal acceptance there. Today, the situation has changed so dramatically that there is consensus in the country that UNOSOM should stay, one way or another, until national reconciliation is achieved. It would indeed be ironic if the international community were to choose to ignore Somalia precisely when the situation is changing for the better. The efforts of the countries of the Horn of Africa in the search for solutions to situations of conflicts have not been limited to Somalia. It is little more than a year since we in the subregion deployed the initiative of the Inter- Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD) with a view to assisting in the resolution of the long-standing conflict in the Sudan - a conflict which has created a deep rift in Sudanese society, and whose implications for peace and security, as well as for the social and economic development of our region, are very great indeed. In the course of the negotiations, the IGADD Committee’s major goal was to help the parties to identify and address the central issues that have been the sources of the conflict in the Sudan - a country characterized by religious, ethnic and racial diversity. Pursuant to instructions from our Heads of State, the IGADD Committee of Foreign Ministers attempted, in a series of rounds of negotiation, to help the parties to narrow their differences over the root causes of the conflict and to arrive at a formula for overcoming the deep crisis affecting their countries. Because the IGADD process induced the parties to focus on the critical issues in the conflict, positions have become well defined. The degree of polarity reflected in these positions reveals the gravity of the root causes and explains why the talks have come to deadlock. Thus, the IGADD peace process is at a crossroads in that the positions of the parties have hardened, and the mediators are left to choose between abandoning their efforts and developing alternative strategies in response to the crisis. Faced with this situation, the Ministerial Committee was compelled ultimately to refer the matter back to the IGADD Committee of Heads of State, which met recently in Nairobi. The Heads of State, while recognizing the logjam that has been created in the process of negotiation, have none the less unanimously decided that there is no alternative to continuing with the peace effort. The major consideration here has been the conviction of the Heads of State that a persisting crisis in the Sudan would be not only a cause of continuing bloodshed in that country but also a major source of instability and lack of peace in the subregion. In this regard, the importance of the international community’s input towards breaking the logjam in the IGADD peace initiative in the Sudan can hardly be underestimated. A solution to the problem can come only through the continued efforts of the countries of the region and the international community’s support for those efforts. We in Ethiopia have had more than our share of the tragedies associated with conflicts. It is three years since peace was restored to the country following three decades of civil war and internal strife. Over the past three years the Transitional Government has focused its attention on three broad concerns - the restoration of peace and stability; the democratization of the political process, including the creation of conditions for enforcing the rule of law and setting up democratic institutions; and the liberalization of the economy and the freeing of the economic sector from the strait-jacket of the command economy imposed on our peoples by the military Government. One of the unique aspects of the democratization process in Ethiopia has been the very extensive devolution of power to all regions of the country. In a country known for its excessive centralization of power - something that was pushed to absurdity by the previous Government: the major reason for the absence of peace in Ethiopia for so long - the new relationship between the centre and the regions is becoming a promising arrangement for genuine and meaningful participation of the people, at the grass-roots level, in the political process of their country. We believe that once democracy becomes relevant to the average person and at the grass roots, it will prove to be durable because the struggle between autocracy and democratic forms of governance 23 will not then be between very narrow, elite groups, whether from the military or from other sectors of society. As we approach the end of the period of transition in Ethiopia, we can say with full confidence that we have, by and large, achieved all the major objectives set for that period. Until three years ago Ethiopia’s name was associated with political instability and civil war. Today Ethiopia has not only achieved peace but also become a factor for peace in its own subregion and beyond, as is vividly demonstrated by the Ethiopian peace-keeping contingent in Rwanda. Moreover, we have been gratified by the recent successful elections for a Constituent Assembly, which will be convened very soon to prepare a constitution on the basis of which a general election will be held to install the first-ever democratically elected Government in the country. In the course of the last three years, we in Ethiopia have benefited immensely from the generous assistance of the international community, for which we are very grateful. This assistance was again demonstrated during the recent drought, which affected over 7 million people. Thanks to the assistance of the international community, to the role the Ethiopian people themselves played and to the timely, effective measures taken by the Government, the effects of a drought that could have caused massive loss of life, dislocation and displacement commensurate with those of the 1984-1985 drought were successfully contained. Even though Ethiopia has now started to stand on its own feet, we cannot pretend that we have even remotely begun to address the major challenges still facing us. The fledgling democratic process in a country with no democratic traditions will continue to be a major challenge. But the political will to solidify grass-roots democracy will always be there, among other things because the survival of countries as diverse as Ethiopia can be ensured only on the basis of democratic governance. However, the linchpin of the success of democracy in Ethiopia, as is also true for all similarly situated countries, is sustainable economic growth and development. Citizens who see no future for themselves or for their offspring can hardly be counted on - and for understandable reasons - to be a bedrock for stable Governments, without which democracy will have little chance of flourishing. None the less, even in the economic sector we have made some notable gains, and our cooperation with the international financial institutions has so far been very encouraging. But the challenges ahead of us are immense, and we will continue to count on the support of the international community to help us put our country firmly on the path of sustainable growth and development. One of the major positive outcomes of the demise of the cold war has been the new confidence placed in multilateral approaches to solving the major problems faced by our interdependent world. The United Nations, as the finest expression of multilateralism, has thus been given a new opportunity to make a difference in the world and to spearhead the efforts of the international community for peace and development. In this context, the democratization of the United Nations at all levels, and greater transparency in the operation of the organs of the Organization, including that of the Security Council and of the Secretariat, are some of the required steps which will guarantee that the United Nations can play to the fullest its potential appropriate role as the foremost multilateral organization with the full confidence of peoples in the North as well as in the South. For our part, we will continue to do our share, and do all that is necessary to assist the United Nations in achieving its noble objectives and goals. It gives me great pleasure to greet all of you here, on behalf of the Haitian people and, with a sense of joy, to address the most heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Amara Essy, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Cote d’Ivoire, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Mr. President, as I wish you every measure of success, I wish to make a point of assuring you of the fullest cooperation of the delegation of Haiti. To Ambassador Samuel Insanally, I address my compliments for having so masterfully guided the work of the Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Our congratulations and appreciation also go to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. I thank him with all my heart for the ties of solidarity he has woven with the Haitian people. To all my dear friends throughout the international community, I address my heartfelt thanks for the support they have given the Haitian people throughout these last three years. Allow me to address a word of special appreciation to President Bill Clinton, to our special friends the United States, Canada, France, Venezuela, Argentina and to all the States, especially those of the Caribbean Community and common market (CARICOM), that have contributed to the implementation of Security Council resolution 940 (1994) and of the Governors Island Agreement. How happy I am to salute all of you and to thank you lavalassly. In 11 days I shall be in Haiti - at last. Thanks to the heroic courage of the Haitian people and thanks to your solidarity, we will soon be back. Your eyes and our own will contemplate the opening of the flowers of democracy. In eleven days I shall invite you to celebrate this festival of reconciliation, of democracy and of peace at home, in Haiti. Even now, with the peaceful launching of the operation 'Uphold Democracy' on 19 September last, a tropical smile has shed light upon the faces of those who espouse and love peace. Together, President Clinton and we have managed to open up a channel of hope after so much suffering. My hat is off to the Haitian people. Honor and respect to the 5,000 victims among us. Father Jean-Marie Vincent died so that Haiti could live. The resistance of the Haitian people has its roots in a historical past where the beacon of liberty has shone day and night. As he was being put on a ship for France, Toussaint Louverture declared quite rightly, 'In overthrowing me, you have only cut down the trunk of the tree of liberty. Its roots will grow back, for they are many and deep.' On the threshold of the bicentennial of our independence, these roots nourish us with the sap of democracy. The Haitian people will never cease in its struggle to guarantee its inalienable and imprescriptible rights to life, liberty and happiness. We will never cease in the struggle to establish a socially just, economically free and politically independent Haitian nation. Thus, the first black republic of the world, today tom asunder by the coup d’etat of 30 September 1991, is marching resolutely and definitively towards the establishment of a democratic society. Through diplomacy We attain democracy. In the face of this grim tragedy that has meant three years of suffering, thorns of pain pierce our hearts. None the less, our people excels at coloring the landscape with hope. The brave live in hope and the cowardly in fear. Better late than never: 'By following the river you reach the sea', said Plautus as long ago as the second century B.C. To this end, despite the democratic structures set up by Solon and Pittacus in the sixth century B.C., it was necessary to wait for Ephialtes, Cleisthenes and Pericles to achieve the democratization of political life in Athens. Hope gives life. We have no fear of the Haiti of the year 2004. Despite the dreadful spectacle of the last three years, we march towards the year 2004 with optimism. The path that leads there necessarily passes through the historic crossroads where the elections of 16 December 1990 and our return to Haiti meet. Eleven days from now I shall be there, thanks to the determination of the Haitian people and to your solidarity. This is a history worthy of attention, and there is no history worthy of attention other than that of free peoples. The history of peoples subjugated to despotism is no more than a collection of anecdotes. Eleven days from now we shall be there. A brilliant light, that of reconciliation, will dazzle us. Between violence and vengeance, reconciliation steps in. Between impunity and iniquity, justice steps in. In other words, we the President of the Republic of Haiti clearly and firmly say. Yes to reconciliation! No to violence! No to vengeance! No to impunity! Yes to justice! We shall brew a coffee of reconciliation through the filter of justice so that no trace of violence, no vengeance will be found. With reconciliation, all hearts - rich and poor, civilian and soldier - must be embraced by enthusiasm. With reconciliation, our proud eyes must no longer be flooded with tears. You, parents and friends of our 5,000 victims, you who endure this crushing yoke, all of you, rich and poor, soldier and civilian: soon a stream of light will flood the deepest wells of your heart. Surely it is the light of reconciliation. Otherwise, how can we dispel the gloom of subhuman abjectness? How can we pass from wretchedness to poverty in dignity? A study of the countries of the third world shows us that 20 per cent of the population in developing countries know hunger every day, 25 per cent are deprived of the essential means of survival, 33 per cent languish in abject poverty. The World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen in 1995, must offer new possibilities for alleviating the distress of more than a billion human beings preyed upon by hunger, disease and utter helplessness. In Haiti in 1994,750,000 children attend school; more than 1,250,000 stay at home or work plots of land. Yet our Constitution stipulates that education is a right of all citizens. It is a duty the State cannot shirk. In these circumstances, 10 years from now we will have to attend to 3,000,000 school-aged children, which will mean increasing the number of teachers from 35,000 to 100,000 and the number of schools from 8,000 to 20,000. On our return we shall undertake a literacy campaign making it possible to attain a significantly low rate of illiteracy: 5 to 10 per cent. Reconciliation among all is of course imperative. Everywhere and always, reconciliation and peace are intertwined. The dissolution of the Soviet bloc has favor favored the opening of a new era after decades of bipolarization. Yet we have the responsibility of protecting peace within our own States. Between 1989 and 1992 there were 82 armed conflicts, only three of which were between States. In our country, institutionalized violence did not unleash a civil war but, rather, a genocide. Even today, despite the presence of the multinational force, acts of violence against our population continue. The disarming of paramilitary groups, notably FRAPH and its attaches, is indispensable if peace is to reign throughout our country. This operation is proceeding to the complete satisfaction of the Haitian people. Obviously, the restoration of democracy will bring reconciliation for all, peace to all of us and respect and justice to every single citizen. Lavalas brings a message of peace. The guns must fall silent if we are to have peace. The professionalization of a 1,500-strong army and the creation of a police force that is separate from the army fall within this peace process. Peace must be protected and guaranteed for the sake of the happiness of all Haitian men and women. Article 265 of our Constitution stipulates: 'The Armed Forces of Haiti are apolitical'. Article 264 says: 'They are set up to guarantee the security and territorial integrity of the Republic'. Article 269-1 says: 'The Police must ensure the maintenance of public order and the protection of the lives and the property of the citizenry'. It is time to create a stable environment that will make national reconciliation possible in our land. We shall no longer have an army of 7,000 absorbing 40 per cent of the national budget. Globally speaking, military expenditures have declined considerably over the last six years, at an average rate of 3.6 per cent per annum. Why, then, do we have one soldier for every 1,000 Haitians and 1.8 physicians for every 10,000 inhabitants, while the industrial countries average one physician for every 400 inhabitants? Once back home, we shall set in motion our program to correct the current health situation where there are 1,000 physicians for 7 million inhabitants, one nurse for every 2,200 inhabitants, and one hospital bed for every 1,300 inhabitants. Our goal is to care for 8 million Haitians with 2,000 physicians and 8,000 nurses and to increase the number of hospital beds to one for every 400 inhabitants by the year 2004. We will have to open a health center in every district; we shall then have 52. Each municipal area will have its own dispensary. The measures to be adopted will allow us to reduce the infant mortality rate from 135 to 40 per 1,000. The average life expectancy of our population will rise from 54 to 65 years. Reconciliation and reconstruction are intimately intertwined: We shall prepare the coffee of reconciliation in the filter of justice so that we shall no longer find any trace of violence or vengeance. Above and beyond our national boundaries, the tragedies of Rwanda, Burundi and Bosnia-Herzegovina have confronted us day after day. The suffering of one man is the suffering of mankind. Every person represents humanity. Since the end of the Second World War, over 23 million people have been killed in armed conflict. How can one remain indifferent when confronted by the tempests of violence that have scourged so many countries with which we enjoy fraternal ties, such as Liberia, Somalia, Georgia, the Sudan and Armenia, to cite just a few? Fortunately, certain conflicts have taken a turn towards peace in the course of the last two years. We hail with hope the peace between Israel and Palestine that has begun to emerge in the Middle East, and we likewise salute South Africa, where the first non-racial, free elections have been held. Neither racial barriers nor barriers of class must exist. On the threshold of the year 2004, the Haitian diaspora - our tenth Department, as it were - is our focus par excellence for celebration of the reconciliation between Haitians and Haiti. Bravo for our tenth Department. Haiti is the Haitians' greatest wealth. Haiti always will be our 'chez nous', our home. Come back home. We can make our homeland as beautiful as a rainbow. At the present time 17.4 per cent - 740 kilometers - of our roads are paved; the remaining 2,960 kilometers are mud roads. Ten years hence, a network of some 2,500 kilometers of paved roads will link all of our major and secondary cities and towns. Some 3,000 kilometers of local roads will be laid down. In 1994, only 1.3 per cent of our forest cover remains. At this rate there will be no forests in Haiti by 1998. With the major reforestation drive that we are going to set up, over 6 million trees will be planted each year. By the year 2004, one-third of our territory will be reforested. It goes without saying that a climate of political stability will allow us to promote economic growth. In 1991, the economic policy and fiscal discipline adopted by the Lavalas government brought in $500,200,000 in customs revenue, domestic revenue and transfers from public enterprises. It was a historic performance for our country. By the year 2004, at a growth rate of 10 per cent per annum, the same revenue would bring in $1.26 billion. In monetary terms, the results were just as satisfactory: an increase in foreign exchange reserves of $20 million dollars; a decrease in the devaluation of our gourde, the national currency, from 58.8 to 47.6 per cent; inflation reduced from 20 to 12 per cent. But what remains of these achievements after three years of plunder? The debt ceiling has been raised twice. Inflation is estimated at 60 per cent. Our national currency, the gourde, has been devalued by 300 per cent relative to the dollar. Public finances are in bankruptcy and the public treasury has recorded a $100 million loss for the fiscal years 1992-1994. This is why there is an absolute need for this reconciliation between Haitians and Haiti, which is a sine qua non for creating a modem State by rebuilding the economy. We have to open up the economy to attract foreign investment and to provide goods at better prices to Haitian consumers. Synergistic relationships between the private sector and the State are indispensable. At the level of developing countries, foreign debt has multiplied fifteen-fold in two decades. From $100 billion in 1970, it rose to $650 billion in 1980 and to more than $1.5 trillion in 1992. This debt is an enormous brake on the development of third-world countries. In 1992 these countries had to shoulder debt servicing of $160 billion: more than twice the amount of official development assistance. However, one can see signs of a turn around. In Haiti, back home, payments arrears rose to $42 million in September 1993 and will surpass $81 million in December of this year. After I return, $13 million will be freed up as the government's contribution to the reduction of these arrears. Setting up a State based on the rule of law also implies reconciliation between Haitians and Haitians: citizens of a country where every man and every woman is a human being, equal before the law. The administration of real justice will free us from the vicious circle of violence and vengeance. Today, the people of Haiti have no access to a system of justice. For our 565 municipal areas, there are only 170 courts and 300 attorneys. However, the rule of law remains an indispensable tool for building the kind of world we aspire to by the year 2004. Between now and then, each and every one of our communal areas will have to get its own court. The number of attorneys will double to 600. A reformed judicial system, backed by an independent, national, civilian police force 10,000 strong, will restore confidence to our citizens. Thus, the restoration of democracy will bring about respect and justice for everyone. In the year 2004, after 10 years of sound democratic management, we shall have achieved a structured civil society where the bread of tolerance will be shared among political parties, the parliament, elected local officials, trade unions, socio-professional organizations, women on the farms, grassroots organizations, religious and ecclesiastical groups and communities - Protestants, Catholics and practitioners of voodoo alike - cooperatives, nongovernmental organizations, and so forth. On the threshold of the third millennium, the principle of 'One man, one vote' can only accelerate the form and movement of democracy globally. From one-half to three- quarters of the world's population lives under relatively pluralistic and democratic systems of government. In 1993, elections were organized in 45 different countries, sometimes for the very first time. In Haiti in 2004, we shall already have held four municipal elections, six legislative elections and three presidential ones. Public administration will already have been strengthened by the modernization of ministries and public institutions. Political life will be more active at the local level because most of the major decisions will be taken at the level of the 565 municipal areas and the 135 municipalities. Mr. President, distinguished diplomats and dear friends in the international community, thanks to your support and the determination of the Haitian people, we shall soon see that brighter tomorrow. Created to spare the world from the scourge of a new world war, the United Nations has, over the years, seen its role expand and its responsibilities take on ever increasing importance in a totally changed international setting. As we gather here for this forty-ninth session, on the eve of the commemoration of the United Nations fiftieth anniversary, I would voice the hope that the Organization may always respond effectively to the new challenges the world will proffer. To the people of Haiti, the children of Haiti, the source of our pride and our dignity, I say 'To save our beloved Haiti, let us all be united beneath that spreading palm, topped with the crown of freedom, the shadow of whose fronds protects those words inscribed in golden letters: ’Unity is strength. Our universe is expanding. The hundred billion galaxies of which it is composed are speeding farther and farther apart while we Haitians, men and women, are moving closer and closer together. Our slogan is: 'Reconciliation of one and all and justice for all.' In its elliptical orbit around the Sun the Earth moves at 30 kilometers a second. May the land of Haiti revolve around the sun of justice at like speed. We are all present at this rendezvous of reconciliation, setting forth together towards the year 2004, the bicentenary of our independence. I say: 'Spread the word among you, without violence or vengeance. Let us triumph through gentle democracy. I count on you, and you can count on me. For now, farewell - soon we will meet again. 'Alone, we are weak. Together, we are strong. United we are Lavalas.' On behalf of the delegation of the United Arab Emirates it gives me pleasure to extend to the President our congratulations on his election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. This is a clear recognition by the international community of his wisdom, diplomatic skills and a sign of esteem for his country, Côte d’Ivoire. We would also like to pay tribute to his predecessor, Ambassador Insanally, for his efforts and his efficiency in steering the deliberations of the last session. In this connection, we salute the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his efforts aimed at improving the work of the Organization and its efficiency so that it may face up to the challenges and changes of today’s world. On this occasion, I am happy to welcome the return of South Africa to the fold of the international community. We are fully confident that by its return, it will effectively contribute to enhancing the work of the Organization. The end of the cold war has created a new climate in international relations as better prospects have emerged which promise to make possible the achievement of tangible progress towards finding solutions for a number of international problems. Such encouraging developments afford unprecedented opportunities for international cooperation in the interests of peace, security, stability and sustainable development. At the same time, we must take stock of the new realities that have emerged on the international scene. In a number of regions, the escalation of wars and regional conflicts poses a serious threat to international and regional peace and security and has led to a state of economic, social and developmental instability. New forms of racism, nationalism and religious fanaticism have emerged, and acts of violence and terrorism in all its forms take place. All these situations and factors impede the building of the better world of peace, coexistence, tolerance and prosperity after which humanity aspires. This makes it clear that the tasks the United Nations undertakes in performing its role in such areas as the resolution of conflicts, peace building and the prevention of regional conflicts are not easy, given the complex nature of the problems of today’s world which differ from those of yesterday’s world. Therefore, we must intensify our efforts in support of what the Secretary-General has proposed in his report “An Agenda for Peace”, in order for that agenda to be translated into a concrete reality. I refer in particular to the proposals concerning the strengthening of cooperation, partnership and coordination between regional organizations and the United Nations, in line with the provisions of the Charter and the rules and norms of international law. I should mention in particular the organizations associated with our region, such as the Gulf Cooperation Council, the League of Arab States and the Organization of the Islamic Conference, all of which possess a good deal of comprehensive knowledge of the affairs of the region and the nature of its problems. In the current international situation, it is important to reconsider the question of reforming the structure of the United Nations — particularly the Security Council and the General Assembly — in accordance with the Charter, so that, in the exercise of their functions, they may respond and adapt to the nature of the current world situation. The responsibilities of the Security Council have greatly increased over the past few years. This fact makes it necessary to ensure greater participation by all Member States, taking into account the fact that equitable and just geographic and regional distribution would contribute to the maintenance of international and regional peace and security. 23 Developments in international and regional situations over the past years have made it clear that radical solutions to regional disputes can be reached only by peaceful means, through dialogue and negotiation between countries in accordance with the United Nations Charter and the rules and norms of international law. Proceeding from this, the policy of the United Arab Emirates is based on full and mutual respect for States’ sovereignty and independence and for the principles of non-interference in the internal affairs of other States, good-neighbourliness and peaceful coexistence. Thus, throughout the years, we have had a sincere desire to conduct direct negotiations with the Government of Iran with a view to the restoration of our full sovereignty over our three Islands — namely, Lesser Tumb, Greater Tumb and Abu Moussa, which were militarily occupied by Iran in 1971, an action which we consider to be illegal and in breach of the United Nations Charter and the rules of international law. On a number of occasions, my country has declared from this rostrum its complete readiness to settle this dispute by peaceful means. Hence the initiative by the United Arab Emirates which called for serious and direct negotiations to put an end to the Iranian occupation of our three islands. This stance on our part stemmed not only from the nature of the traditional and historic relations between the two countries and from the current trends on the international scene in dealing with issues of peace and security, but also from our adherence to the principles and tenets of the Islamic Sharia’a, the provisions of the Charter and the rules of international law. Owing to the Islamic Republic of Iran’s failure to respond to all these endeavors and initiatives on the question of the three Islands of the Emirates, the Government of my country has declared its full readiness to put the issue before the International Court of Justice which is the judicial organ competent to settle disputes between States. My Country is pledged to accepting all that follows from the Judgment of the International Court as that Judgment would be based on legal arguments and documents. This initiative was supported by our sister countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council, as well as by Arab and by other friendly countries. We hope that the international community will support this peaceful initiative, which is based on international legality. Furthermore, the United Arab Emirates hopes that the Islamic Republic of Iran would share this sincere desire and respond to our serious initiative, especially as the Government of Iran has on previous occasions — I refer to disputes in respect of which the Court was likely to rule in Iran’s favour — had recourse to the International Court of Justice and accepted its Judgments. We are confident that this initiative will help to achieve an atmosphere of stability and security in the region and will enhance peaceful coexistence and mutual respect amongst its States and thereby enable them to channel their energies and resources towards the achievement of the socio-economic development for which they stand in dire need after so many years of conflict and war. Although almost four years have elapsed since the liberation of the sisterly State of Kuwait, the Iraqi regime is still being selective in its implementation of the relevant resolutions of international legality, indifferent to the serious consequences. In addition, it is using delaying tactics and procrastination, instead of cooperating by releasing hundreds of hostages and detainees from Kuwait and other countries. While we in the United Arab Emirates, with our brethren in the Gulf Cooperation Council, affirm the need to uphold the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq, we consider the international resolutions operative and mandatory. Thus, we demand that the Iraqi regime abide by its legal and political obligations, as stipulated in the Security Council resolutions related to its aggression against Kuwait — in particular, resolution 687 (1991) concerning respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait; and resolution 833 (1993), which determines the demarcation of international borders between Kuwait and Iraq in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VII of the Charter. Short of the implementation of both these resolutions, there cannot be a positive climate conducive to peace and security in the region. The peace dividend, the product of the atmosphere of international cooperation in the wake of the Cold War era, has increasingly come to determine the characteristics and parameters of a new world order based on regional cooperation, for whose success peace is considered an indispensable prerequisite. Proceeding from this, the United Arab Emirates was one of the countries that welcomed the holding of the Madrid Peace Conference and the conduct of bilateral negotiations. This was also the reason why my country participated in the multilateral negotiations. 24 While we considered the Declaration of Principles and the agreements that followed on the Palestinian and Jordanian tracks as the first real steps of detente in the Arab-Israeli dispute and the Question of Palestine based on international legality as represented in the relevant United Nations resolutions, particularly Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) on the Israeli withdrawal from all the occupied Palestinian and Arab territories, including Al-Quds Al-Shareef, the Syrian Golan and southern Lebanon, at the same time we affirm the necessity of attaining positive results on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks based on these resolutions and on the principles and the premises that were agreed upon in Madrid Peace Conference, namely the land-for-peace principle. My country, which pins its hopes on the success of the national reconciliation conference in Somalia within the terms of the Nairobi Declaration, is still concerned about the deterioration of the security and humanitarian situation and the obstruction of the distribution of relief supplies to the suffering people of this sisterly country. We did not hesitate to grant humanitarian assistance in addition to our participation in the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II). We think that the international relief efforts cannot be successful in the worsening internal situation. Therefore, the major responsibility lies with the Somali leaders themselves to formulate a serious response to mediation efforts aimed at the political settlement and national reconciliation, without which their country will not be saved, its reconstruction will not be achieved and the rehabilitation of its people will not take place or pave the way for Somalia’s return as an active member of the international community. My country is deeply concerned over the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly under the circumstances of the continued violation of its sovereignty and of the human rights of its people, especially the Muslims. The facts still indicate that Bosnian Serb forces and their supporters have not refrained for a single day from their acts of aggression or from perpetrating further crimes of ethnic cleansing and genocide. To the contrary, they have gone to great lengths in defying the international will and have even attacked United Nations personnel. These Serbian actions aim at regional expansionist gains that violate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Although the United Arab Emirates has continued to call upon the international community since the eruption of this crisis to take serious measures that could restore dignity, security and stability to that country, yet, after 30 months, we are obliged to reiterate our call, in the strongest possible terms, to the international community, particularly the Security Council, to reconsider the manner it has opted for in dealing with the question of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council must once again take firmer measures against the Serbian aggressor in accordance with Article 42 of Chapter VII of the Charter, and in a manner that would achieve a just negotiated settlement. At the same time, we reiterate our previous call for the lifting of the arms embargo imposed on the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Security Council resolution 713 (1991) so that the people of that country may be able to defend themselves in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter. In view of the rapid developments in international relations at the end of the Cold War era, the international situation necessitates an early settlement of the problems left behind by that era. This will be realized only through a general orientation towards disarmament in all its forms, covering both nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. Thus, we look forward to the 1995 Conference on the Review and Revision of the Non- Proliferation Treaty, hoping that that Conference will produce confidence-building measures on the regional and international levels that would create zones free from weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons, particularly in the Middle East region, which has been plagued by conflict for a long period of time. Despite progress in the Arab-Israeli peace negotiations, we are deeply concerned over Israel’s acquisition of an immense nuclear capability, which constitutes a constant and continued threat to the security of the countries and peoples of the region, hampers the realization of the comprehensive objectives of these negotiations and will also endanger international peace. While social issues are now at the forefront of international relations, the economic and developmental questions of developing countries are increasingly marginalized, and the economic disparities between developing and developed countries continues to widen as a result of the measures taken by developed countries. The exports of developing countries are still impeded by protectionist measures, and their efforts for development 25 are threatened by the burden of foreign indebtedness, reverse financial flows in addition to the constant decline in the price of commodities, on which most of developing countries depend as a major source of national income, as well as the general deterioration in the terms of trade and finance of the developing countries themselves. The persistence of these problems and the absence of a solution will lead to political and social tensions, which in turn will adversely affect international and regional peace and security. The nature of these problems requires us to reconsider the structure of the current international social and economic relations with two approaches. The first includes the development of new measures and mechanisms for cooperation amongst the countries of the North and the South, and the second hinges on finding a strategy for economic integration that addresses the elements of developmental deficit among the countries of the South in a way that ensures the realization of socio-economic improvements in the process of sustainable development, and alleviates the concerns of the countries of the South vis-à-vis implementation of their immediate and medium- term development plans. International economic integration has become a concrete reality that must be taken into account. This concept has been recently endorsed by the agreement of a majority of countries to the establishment of the World Trade Organization in Marakesh in sisterly Morocco on 15 April 1994. There can be no doubt that this is a historic event and gives new momentum to the world economy. We hope that the setting up of this new organization will be a positive beginning that improves and enhances the prospects of economic, financial and international trade relations based on justice, co-equality and equity, with a view to bridging the gap between developed and developing countries. The spirit of tolerance and of adherence to noble cultural and humanitarian values, to the principles and purposes of the Charter and the rules of international law should be our beacon which guides our steps towards the future that we desire. Consequently, we call on Member States to take advantage of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and to transform it into a historic occasion for a comprehensive review and for ushering in a bright future of stability, security and coexistence prevail for all peoples and countries of the world. My delegation welcomes the election of Ambassador Amara Essy as President of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly with a genuine feeling of great pride and satisfaction; he is not only our neighbour in the West African subregion, but a seasoned diplomat. He is certainly no stranger here, having served his great country, Côte d’Ivoire, as Permanent Representative at the United Nations for many years. We in the Gambia hold him in high esteem for his constructive and positive contributions to problems of common concern, both at the bilateral and multilateral levels. I have no doubt that those qualities, for which he is well known, will contribute immensely to the successful conclusion of our deliberations. I should 13 therefore like to congratulate him warmly on his assumption of office and to assure him of the full support of my delegation in carrying out his important mandate. Let me also take this opportunity to pay tribute to Ambassador Insanally for the excellent manner in which he performed his duties during his tenure of office last year. In the same vein, I wish to commend the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his untiring efforts and effective leadership in ensuring the realization of the ideals for which our Organization, the United Nations, was founded. My delegation joins many previous speakers in wholeheartedly welcoming South Africa to the Assembly after a 20- year absence. The advent of a non-racial, democratic Government in South Africa symbolized a significant turning point in the constitutional and colonial history of South Africa, in particular, and of Africa in general. The resilience and resourcefulness that have guided and inspired the people of South Africa in the crucial years of their march to a non-racial and democratic Government will, I have no doubt, serve as important assets in South Africa’s effective participation in the work of the United Nations. On 22 July this year there was a peaceful removal of Government in the Gambia, when it was replaced by the Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council under the chairmanship of His Excellency Lieutenant Yahya A.J.J. Jammeh. This change was caused by a series of events and developments within the country that the previous Government had neglected and in some cases had refused to address. The continued abuse and misuse of political power and of public office, coupled with serious corrupt practices at various levels of Government departments, necessitated this action. The Gambia has since independence in 1965 enjoyed a relatively long period as a democratic State and as a politically stable country. We acknowledge this achievement, but at the same time we also have good reasons why the Government in power had to be removed. In the evolution of nation States a stable political system is essential in any country for peace, security, stability and development. When that stability comes under increasing strain, however, and is threatened from within by certain important officials of Government and politicians alike, the preservation of that stability and national integrity becomes more important than anything else. There is no political system that is perfect. We take the view that when a democratic political system is under attack by some unscrupulous individuals holding public office through corrupt practices and other selfish acts, in open violation of the moral tenets of honesty, commitment, discipline and hard work, it becomes necessary to institute corrective measures to stop and prevent that system’s decay and instability. The privilege of being the people’s representatives does not confer any rights that entitle those representatives to do anything other than the people’s business. The restoration of public trust and confidence in government in the older democracies is an institutionalized process that has acquired value and stability. The mechanisms that protect the State and allow for a peaceful and acceptable mode of restoration of public trust and confidence have been tested and proved effective over time. That action is reinforced by the fact that the strength of democratic societies lies with the people, who freely participate in the political process and select or elect their representatives. The legitimacy of government derives, therefore, from the expressed will of the people to have a government that will promote and protect their rights as well as the collective interest of society. In the newer democracies, however, where there are no mechanisms or institutions that can protect and preserve the essence of the democratic process, there has been a tendency, in response to a moral imperative, to take radical measures that are intended to arrest the abuse of political power and the misuse of executive authority in the interest of society as a whole. We wish to emphasize that the events that took place in the Gambia in July this year must be understood as politically necessary to allow for corrective measures to be put in place and to usher in a new and equitable democratic political system. In this connection, the present provisional Government’s overriding objective is to set up those institutions that would provide the necessary checks and balances and thus enhance the democratic process in the Gambia and the right of the people to elect a government of their choice. 14 The essence of a democratic political system is, in addition to its inclusive character, its ability to promote the political, economic, civil, social and cultural rights of the individual and of the community as a whole. Any unbalanced approach to the promotion of those rights renders the system less democratic, less responsive and thus more suspect. Any democratically elected Government that only promotes the civil and political rights of its people and neglects the promotion of their social, cultural and economic rights, or that deliberately fails to provide equal opportunities for all its people, forfeits, in our view, its right to govern. The challenge that faces democratic Governments - and any Government, for that matter - is how to promote that cluster of human rights without giving any undue attention to a few of them. In other words, the promotion and protection of human rights requires a balanced approach as opposed to an unbalanced one. His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally - the President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session - in his address to those who participated in the Second International Conference of New or Restored Democracies, which was held in Managua, Nicaragua, in July, said: 'To survive and flourish, democracy must be provided with an infrastructure of institutions which are conducive to the culture of a free society. Each citizen must be guaranteed, in addition to his or her fundamental human rights, opportunity for economic and social development. ... Basic rights such as education, health and housing must be provided by the State to guarantee a stable society in which democratic norms and practices can prevail.' The Gambia subscribes fully to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and other human-rights instruments. We shall continue to respect our obligations under these international covenants. In this regard, we shall also continue to give full support to the Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights of the Organization of African Unity and the African Centre for Democracy and Human Rights Studies, which are based in Banjul. To those who, in these times of new and emergent democracies in Africa and elsewhere, may argue that the Gambia had a genuine democratic system we wish to restate that democracy as practised in our country had certain fundamental weaknesses, which failed to allow change to emerge from within the democratic process. We affirm our commitment to returning the country to civilian rule after addressing these inherent weaknesses. The peaceful manner in which the people of the Gambia responded to the change of Government encourages the Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council to move towards a timetable that would return the country to civilian rule before long. A programme of transition and rectification will shortly be announced. This will give details of the activities to be undertaken within a time-bound framework. As part of the programme, and in an effort to institutionalize transparency and accountability in our society, the Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council is setting up four commissions of inquiry designed to shed light on the past practices of some public servants and former politicians suspected of corruption and the embezzlement of public funds. The Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council has made it abundantly clear that much as we are determined to recover funds stolen from public coffers, there will be no witch-hunt. In pursuit of these objectives, we are mindful of the need for objectivity and impartiality. No military tribunals will be set up. All the suspects will be tried in civilian courts by civilian judges. In this connection, the new regime has already approached a number of friendly countries in our subregion that have the same legal heritage as the Gambia and asked them to assist by providing judges with the requisite expertise in similar exercises. In this way the objectivity, impartiality and independence of the judiciary will be further guaranteed. At the same time, a Constitutional Review Commission is being established to look into certain aspects of the Constitution with a view to making it more functional in terms of advancing the cause of democracy. As part of this process, an independent electoral commission will also be put in place for the same purpose - to strengthen democracy. The military take-over was not, therefore, directed against any country; its purpose was to redress certain internal difficulties. As soon as that task has been completed the country will be returned to civilian rule. It is our intention to ensure that the democratic system 15 that will be put in place in the Gambia will champion, in word and in deed, the balanced promotion and protection of all human rights and respect for those rights on the part of all those who hold public office. We look forward to the understanding and support of the international community at this critical phase of the transition process. It goes without saying that while we are engaged in this national exercise we shall also honour all our inter- national obligations, in addition to playing an active role in the comity of nations. I therefore take this opportunity to renew my country’s unswerving commitment to the ideals and principles of the United Nations. We have followed with interest the numerous events that have taken place around the world since the last session of the General Assembly. The situation in Liberia has always been of major concern to us, and the failure to implement the Cotonou Accord fully has not dampened our enthusiasm. The Akosombo Agreement constitutes another attempt, in a long and tortuous peace process, to galvanize the principal players in the Liberian conflict in an effort to achieve a genuine peace leading to free and fair elections. It is the fervent hope of my delegation that the continued efforts and sacrifices being made by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and other African friends of Liberia, and indeed by the United Nations in the shape of the continued presence of the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL), will encourage the warring factions to agree to disarm without further delay. The Gambia has followed with keen interest recent positive political and military developments in Rwanda leading to the cessation of hostilities and the establishment of a Government of national reconciliation, which we hope will be consolidated further. The assistance of the international community will continue to be needed in Rwanda, not only to restore peace and stability and law and order but also to ensure the smooth, safe and speedy return of all Rwandese refugees and displaced persons to their respective homes. We continue to observe with concern the failure of the peace process in Somalia. The current inability of the international community to broker a durable peace and reconciliation between the parties to the conflict should not deter us; rather, it should spur us to redouble our efforts and our resolve to find a satisfactory solution to the conflict. We understand and appreciate the international community’s frustration at the failure of the warring factions to work towards reconciliation and reconstruction. But peace is priceless and constitutes one of the principles underlying the creation of this noble Organization, and this is certainly not the time for the United Nations to consider withdrawing the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNISOM). It is with equal concern that my delegation views the situation in other trouble spots around the globe - notably, Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the question of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is saddening to note that, so far, all the efforts deployed by the international community to find a negotiated settle- ment have been persistently frustrated by the Bosnian Serbs without the slightest compunction. Furthermore, the Bosnian Serbs have persisted with their heinous policy of 'ethnic cleansing' and other war crimes, in total disregard of the basic norms of international behaviour. At the General Assembly’s last session my delegation expressed the firm view that the defenceless Muslim population should be given the opportunity to defend itself in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, which makes provision for the exercise of the right of self-defence. I believe that by lifting the arms embargo against Bosnia and Herzegovina the international community would be sending strong and clear signals to the intransigent Bosnian Serbs. With regard to the dispute over Jammu and Kashmir, my delegation upholds the view that the Simla Agreement and the relevant Security Council resolutions provide a sound basis for a just and lasting solution to the conflict. With regard to the situation between Kuwait and Iraq, my delegation would like to reiterate that the key to a durable solution lies in compliance by Iraq with all the United Nations resolutions on the issue - in particular, those dealing with recognition of and respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait. However, recent Iraqi military action does not augur well for a speedy lifting of United Nations sanctions and the achievement of stability in the region. In respect of the Arab-Israeli conflict, we are encouraged by the events that have been unfolding since the signing of the Peace Accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). The balance 16 sheet has been generally positive, and we encourage both sides to pursue the peace process. At this juncture I should like to congratulate Jordan and Israel on the courageous and constructive step they took recently to end the state of war between them. Such a positive development will give added credibility to the entire Middle East peace process to secure a comprehensive and durable solution in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). Another important and worrying factor, which threatens to undermine any political gains in our countries, is the question of poverty and the lack of economic development. Extensive external debt and debt-servicing obligations continue to be important constraints on the advancement of the developing countries. The situation is most acute in Africa. The external debt of Africa as a whole has been growing by about 2.5 per cent yearly and for sub-Saharan Africa the annual debt growth rate has been estimated to be as high as 7.7 per cent. This is equivalent to $199 billion, while debt-servicing arrears total some $45.8 billion, which is equivalent to over 20 per cent of the total debt stock. For sub-Saharan Africa, therefore, the ratios of debt to gross national product and debt to export are almost three times the registered average for all developing countries, making it the most impoverished region in the world. There is more than ever before an urgent need for the inter- national community to find a lasting solution to this problem. Against the background of such difficulties, it is regrettable to note that, in real terms, aid flows to Africa as a whole have also been on the decline in spite of the substantial increase by a few countries in their levels of aid to Africa. Equally noteworthy is the failure of direct foreign investments to increase appreciatively enough to relieve Africa’s financial crisis and stimulate economic growth. Let me, en passant, recall that the Tokyo International Conference on African Development served as a forum to raise international public awareness and renew commitment to Africa’s development. The successful implementation of the Tokyo Declaration will depend largely on the common political will of African Governments and their development partners. From a global perspective, it is predicted that the conclusion of the Uruguay Round will link economies more strongly through an increased flow of trade and finance based on trade liberalization and a strengthening of the multilateral trading system. While the liberalization of trade as a result of the Uruguay Round may lead to a substantial increase in world trade and income, the impact on developing countries could be less noticeable. Many African countries may find themselves among the least to benefit, partly as a result of the removal of certain preferential trade arrangements. On a different but more positive note, it is gratifying to note that the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee for the elaboration of an international convention to combat desertification in those countries experiencing serious drought and/or desertification, particularly in Africa, has completed its mandate and that a Convention has been adopted. The three regional implementation Annexes have also been concluded. The cumulative effects of drought and desertification on our environment as well as on the socio-economic development of our countries have been amply demonstrated. But if this Convention is to make a difference, it must be provided with the necessary resources to ensure its effective implementation. The correlation between drought and desertification and rapid population growth is well known. That is why we welcomed the International Conference on Population and Development that has just ended in Cairo. It demonstrated the importance of population policy as an essential ingredient of social and economic development. We fully support the Programme of Action adopted by the Conference and will continue to work closely with international, regional and national agencies, including non-governmental organizations, to implement it, taking into account our national priority strategies on population policy. Similarly, the Yokohama Strategy and Plan of Action which issued from the World Conference on Natural Disaster Reduction constitute a clear reflection of our collective determination to develop and strengthen our existing capacity for natural disaster prevention, reduction, preparedness and mitigation. We very much welcome the World Summit for Social Development to be held in Copenhagen in March 1995. While the Conference will address three core issues - enhancing social integration; alleviating and reducing poverty; and expanding productive employment - it will none the less attract a number of social and developmental issues of relevance to world social progress and global development. For those of us in the developing world, the Conference will afford the 17 opportunity to address once more our socio-economic development needs while drawing attention to existing social ills in our societies and finding solutions to these problems. In the same vein, the Fourth World Conference on Women to be held in Beijing will give us the opportunity to evaluate the advancement of women in light of the objectives of the Nairobi Forward-looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women to the year 2000. It will also provide fresh guidelines to ensure that the targets set are achieved. Indeed, the twenty-first century holds many challenges for mankind, but the most important and pressing will be the elimination of gender discrimination. It is now clear that the resolve to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples is gaining ground, and that, in the process, the United Nations provides the most appropriate forum. In order to fulfil this purpose efficiently, the ongoing consultations for restructuring and revitalizing the United Nations system, notably that of the General Assembly, should be vigorously pursued. My delegation will continue to lend its unwavering support to these laudable efforts. The creation of the Office of Internal Oversight Services confirms once more the importance of the effective management of the Organization’s limited resources. Urgent attention should also be given to strengthening cooperation and coordination between agencies of the United Nations system, the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions. Finally, I should like to reaffirm my Government’s commitment to the work of the United Nations and the preservation of international peace and security. Gambia will continue to give full support to the international effort to address the social, economic and environmental problems facing mankind. The joy we share with other nations as Members of the United Nations is matched only by our respect for each Member of this commonwealth of nations. First of all, I should like to extend to you, Sir, on behalf of my delegation, my warmest congratulations on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We are convinced that your outstanding skills and your vast experience will guarantee the success of this session. Your country, the sister republic of Côte d’Ivoire, has always played an effective and moderating role in the search for peace in Africa and throughout the world. I should like also to express my most sincere congratulations to your predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, for the competence and skill with which he led the work of the previous session. I should like also to express, on behalf of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, our admiration of and support for the unremitting efforts of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations, aimed at enabling our Organization to achieve its goals. Our current session takes place at a time when the international community is faced with numerous challenges. These include a constant deterioration in the terms of trade, the growing disparity between rich and poor countries, and an increase in hotbeds of tension. In addition, many people in the poor countries are being crushed under a debt burden that is constantly getting heavier, with, as a consequence, gloomy prospects for the socio-economic development of the peoples of those countries. Instead of the hoped-for prosperity, what we are witnessing today are bloody conflicts which are ravaging 29 entire countries with all their attendant miseries and forms of destruction. Such nefarious developments not only undermine all the hard-won achievements of the people of those countries, but also afflict them with new types of suffering and make them lose any hope they may have had in enjoying a life of dignity, stability and progress. The international economic situation continues to be cause for concern for a large number of developing countries that feel the negative impacts of structural adjustment programmes, which focus on macroeconomic equilibriums and display a marked degree of such indifference to the social cost of such adjustments. It should be emphasized that of the 55 countries which have implemented those programmes during the 1980-1989 period, only 7 have been able to improve their economic situation. During that same decade, a downward trend in per capita income was noted in 29 countries, while in 13 other countries there has been a real deterioration of social conditions. These crisis elements have been compounded by stagnation and the reduction in public development assistance, despite the fact that the .7 per cent objective was supposed to contribute to the creation of better conditions. It is regrettable to note that the deterioration in the economic situation is of such a nature that it may well have a negative effect on the implementation of international conventions and programmes, notably those which relate to the environment, the programme of action for children, and the programme of action for the advancement and protection of human rights. Furthermore such deterioration will have an adverse effect on the chances for the success of other ongoing negotiations which aim at finding solutions to problems that threaten the prosperity of humankind as a whole. As a matter of fact, the negative effects of the economic crisis are too numerous to enumerate and unfortunately, it is the most vulnerable sectors of society, such as women, children and the poor that bear the full brunt of the situation. If in our time unemployment and a high crime rate are widespread phenomena, countries with limited resources are apt to be more exposed to their effects than others. The need to devise a preventive approach which would make it possible to face up to these social ills is thus becoming all the more urgent. In this regard, we welcome the forthcoming World Summit for Social Development, in Copenhagen, and hope the summit will result in initiatives that will enable developing countries to make significant advances in their development. It has become quite clear that development is the real guarantor of world peace and that the miserable living conditions of the overwhelming majority of the inhabitants of our planet make it impossible to achieve peace and stability in our world. Thus we place a great deal of hope in the Secretary- General’s proposed Agenda for Development. Such a document would deserve our appreciation and should obtain widespread support in order for it to become a true tool in promoting economic and social development everywhere. The fragility of the world economic situation should not obscure the successes achieved in several areas of international relations. In this context, we welcome the success of the Secretary-General’s consultations which aimed at resolving the problems posed to certain countries by Chapter XI of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, whose coming into force as of 16 November 1994, will mark the beginning of a decisive phase in its evolution. Our country considers that the United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks should lead to strict and global resolutions that would put an end to the plundering of fishing resources as well as to the anarchy that currently prevails in the seas. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania has, along with countries threatened by the phenomenon of desertification, made major efforts to conclude a world convention to fight drought and desertification, especially in Africa. While we welcome the positive outcome of those negotiations, we do express the hope that the convention will be the start of positive action on the part of the international community in favour of those countries which have suffered the most. All the results achieved thanks to the efforts of the United Nations highlight the focal and vital role with which our Organization is entrusted and attest to its universality. 30 There is no doubt, however, that a reform of the structures and procedures of the Organization is now necessary. The decisions already taken to revitalize the Economic and Social Council will be no more than a dead letter so long as they are not accompanied by the allocation of resources that would make it possible to implement the development programmes. We should always bear in mind the fact that all conflicts and all the resultant peace-keeping operations, which mobilize such vast financial resources, have as their main cause the deterioration of the economic and social conditions of the countries concerned. A rapid overview of our globe and the areas of tension is enough to prove that underdevelopment and the problems it causes only fuel such tensions. Advances in the area of democracy and human rights are, to be sure, the most important achievements the international community has seen in recent times. While we commend the progress achieved in these two areas, we must not lose sight of the fact that democracy cannot be confined to the national frameworks of individual States, but should embrace also international relations among nations. This is the reason why we support efforts to expand representation within the Security Council by increasing its membership. We hope that such reform will take place in line with the tenets of democratic transparency. Whatever the final formula adopted for the new configuration of the Security Council might be, we believe it will be necessary to respect the principle of the co- equality of Member States, and the fact that, according to Article 24 of the Charter, the Security Council acts on behalf of those Member States, and must, therefore, reflect the views and aspirations of the international community in its entirety. The democratic process which was launched in 1986 in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania through the establishment of democratic institutions and the organization of presidential and parliamentary elections in 1992, has been consolidated further with the organization of elections for municipal councils and for one third of the senate seats. Those elections, which have elicited extensive participation on the part of voters, have been covered extensively by the independent national press, following electoral campaigns by several political parties which represent various trends of opinion. Thus the Mauritanian people are daily consolidating the foundations of their young democracy, which in the words of the President of the Republic, His Excellency Mr. Maaouya Ould Sid’Ahmed Taya, is the mainspring 'of all sovereignty and legality'. It is in this democratic environment that the Mauritanian people are waging a determined struggle against various aspects of economic and social underdevelopment. We should highlight the important gains made by our country through the implementation, in 1984, of a series of economic reforms, as well as the political stability, freedom, justice and equality now enjoyed by all Mauritanian citizens. We should also voice the pride of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania at being one of the few developing countries where there have been no political prisoners, and where freedom of the press, a multi-party system, and freedom of trade unions have become realities similar to those which States that value the rule of law, such as the countries with longstanding democratic traditions, pride themselves on. The quest for peace will continue to be our main concern so that we may rise to the challenges of the end of this century. The end of the cold war has opened up new vistas for the emergence of a better world where justice and peace may prevail. Yet the increasing number of hotbeds of tension which require the organization of peace-keeping operations leads us to believe that a new style of diplomacy is becoming a must if we are to prevent the recurrence of human tragedies similar to those which were witnessed in the past or those which we now experience and are unable to stop or to resolve. Our country hopes that the recent developments which have been taking place in the Middle East will constitute the beginnings of a solution to the tragedy of the Palestinian people and that, at last, they will be able to exercise their legitimate right to establish an independent State. We believe that the Declaration of Principles of 13 September 1993, giving autonomy to Gaza - which was followed up by the Cairo agreement of 4 May 1994 and most recently, on 25 July 1994, the meeting between His Majesty King Hussein of Jordan and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin - will usher in a 31 new era. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania hopes this initial success will lead to a just, comprehensive and lasting peace based on the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). The United Nations should continue to support peace efforts in the Middle East until such time as a final settlement of the problems still pending in the region is reached. In this connection, we hope the commitment undertaken by donors at their meeting on 1 October 1993 will be translated into concrete action that would revitalize the economy of Palestine and help solve its economic and social problems. In that sensitive region, the after-effects of the Gulf war continue to make themselves felt. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania, which has always affirmed its unswerving support for international legality, has made clear its total rejection of any violation of fraternal Kuwait’s independence or territorial integrity or of the rights of its citizens, just as it stands against anything that might undermine Iraq’s unity or territorial integrity. The time has come to put an end to the suffering of the Iraqi people. In the same sensitive region, my country wishes to renew its unflagging and total support for the recovery by the fraternal State of the United Arab Emirates of its legitimate rights over the islands of Lesser Tumb, Greater Tumb and Abu Moussa. With regard to the Arab Maghreb, we still hope the United Nations will be able to eliminate the obstacles which continue to impede the resolution to the Sahara problem. My country will spare no effort in helping the Organization in the implementation of resolutions relevant to this issue. Our determination stems from our desire to reach a just and lasting solution and to strengthen the process of building a united Arab Maghreb. We also hope the embargo imposed on the Libyan people will be lifted. We are aware that the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya has shown tangible proof of its readiness to cooperate with the United Nations and other groups and that the embargo is affecting the interests of all other peoples in the Maghreb. With regard to Africa, I should like to express my country’s satisfaction with the peace-keeping operations approved by the United Nations with the aim of putting an end to the bloody confrontations in parts of that continent. The Rwandan tragedy, marked by the death of half a million people in the space of a few weeks, is one of the most horrible ordeals of our era. In this connection, I must commend the excellent organization of Operation Turquoise, which has been led and meticulously executed by France within the allotted time-frames. The operation was a model of proper and disinterested humanitarian intervention. My country took part in that noble humanitarian action that saved tens of thousands of human lives and provided our Rwandan brethren with an opportunity to work together to find a solution to their problem. We hope such international efforts will enable those brethren to heal their wounds and work towards the establishment of national unity and the rebuilding of their country. Unfortunately, Rwanda is not the only place in Africa where an armed conflict is causing fratricidal strife. In Somalia, Liberia and Angola, civil wars continues to rage, despite the tireless efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity to restore peace and concord in place of hatred and war between brothers. We hope the citizens of those countries will heed the voice of reason and will agree to safeguard their interests and the right of their peoples to enjoy peace and security. This objective can be achieved only through responsible and constructive dialogue. Experience has shown that the language of arms cannot lead to valid solutions. In Mozambique we are following with special interest the various steps expected to lead to the holding of elections on the 27th and 28th of October 1994. We hope those elections will embody the spirit of the peace agreement concluded in October 1992 and that they will be conducted under proper conditions of peace and concord. The human tragedies that have beset the African continent should not blind us to the positive events that have taken place, such as the triumph of democracy in South Africa under the presidency of Nelson Mandela and the settlement of the conflict between Libya and Chad. We welcome the representatives of South Africa. Their presence here among us, representing as it does the culmination of a decades-long struggle by all African peoples, is a source of pride and happiness. On the European continent, which appears to all as the most fertile ground for democracy and respect for human rights, the outright aggression by the Serbs against the Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a clear affront to the human conscience. The efforts of the international 32 community over two long years have failed to put an end to the Serbian aggression, which has clearly taken the form of 'ethnic cleansing' vis-à-vis the Muslims. No serious military effort has been made yet to put an end to the suffering of the inhabitants of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who continue to suffer under the embargo that denies them the arms needed for self-defence. Indeed, it is high time the United Nations discharged its full responsibilities under the Charter and used all necessary means, including armed force, to put an end to that terrible tragedy in line with the principles of the Charter and the Organization’s responsibility to maintain peace. In 1995 we will be celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization. That commemoration should make it possible for us to take stock of the progress made over half a century and to devise better plans and programmes to deal with future problems. Two other events of major importance will take place in the same year and will have to do with the search for solutions to major problems which are still pending: the World Summit for Social Development and the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. We hope the results of those two meetings will coalesce with the outcome of the negotiations which aim at reforming the Security Council so that the Organization will be equipped with the necessary structures that would enable it to deal with the challenges of the twenty-first century. Today more than ever, the peoples of the world are making the United Nations the repository of all their hopes, and the Organization must ensure the maintenance of peace and promote cooperation for development at one and the same time. By so doing our Organization would crystallize humanity’s aspirations to a world of peace and stability and would then become a true crucible where all nations joined their efforts to bring forth an era of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. It is with pleasure that I warmly congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. In his election I see a recognition of the role that Côte d’Ivoire, a friendly African country, has played on the international scene as well as an appreciation of his personal qualities and experience. A word of recognition is also in order for the outgoing President, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, for his dedicated and positive service during the last session of the Assembly. To the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, I renew my homage for the secure and committed manner in which he is carrying out his mission. As he already knows, Portugal can be counted on in the pursuit of the objectives of peace and development and in the consolidation of a substantial reform of the United Nations system. 15 My German colleague has already addressed the Assembly on behalf of the 12 member States of the European Union, expressing positions to which Portugal fully subscribes. Nevertheless, I would like to reflect on certain issues which are of particular importance to my country. The end of the bipolar era has created, somewhat perversely, greater unpredictability and uncertainty in the system of collective security, which has most visibly led to a rebirth of extreme nationalism and new focuses of conflict. In this perspective, I would like to underline the importance we attach to cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations and mechanisms. Such cooperation implements the concept of complementary actions and allows for more agile solutions adapted to concrete circumstances. The road to stability and the progressive development of a new concept of security also passes through the stimulation of political institutions capable of guaranteeing respect for universally recognized values. Similarly, greater international control of the use of force will require not only the best and most adequate means but also a constantly renewed political legitimacy in order to wield them. In my view, this legitimacy is tied to the goal of building an international society based on ideals which promote peace, democracy and human rights. We must also keep in mind the socio-economic dimension of the issues that threaten international stability and security. More than ever, we need an integrated approach within which the preventive dimension is given priority, both in its purely political and diplomatic aspect and in its development-aid aspect. In this context, we underline the importance of the committed participation of all nations in an Agenda for Development, as the Secretary-General has invited us to do. Today more than ever, the portentous words of the Pope ring true: 'Development is the new name of peace.' In this regard, we need to rethink, not only the role of development aid, but also the very concept of development. It should become more comprehensive, including respect for democratic values and human rights as well as social and economic issues and other issues related to the preservation of the environment, demographics, the prevention of endemic diseases and the fight against the traffic in drugs. Here we must also underline the importance we attach to helping countries that are truly committed to implementing social and politico-economic reforms conducive to sustainable development. However, such a process must be complemented by an increasingly liberal international system and by a set of measures that seek to reduce the burden of external debt and create the conditions for a reactivation of private investment in their economies. In this context, I welcome the signing in Marrakesh of the Uruguay Round agreements and the forthcoming start-up of the World Trade Organization, which will allow for freer trade, with the simultaneous strengthening of rules and disciplines. As a member of the European Union, Portugal firmly defends the enlargement of the Union and the strengthening of ties with other countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean basin. For the entire continent, the European Union is undoubtedly an immense consolidating force of democratic ideals, stability, prosperity and respect for human rights. Other organizations, such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), the Western European Union (WEU) and the Council of Europe contribute equally to the same ideals. If the democratization of Eastern Europe has created the possibility of future adhesions to the European Union, it has also led to a new relationship as regards security on the continent. We understand the desire already expressed by many countries of Central and Eastern Europe to join the defence and security organizations, and we are ready to consider, in due time, a gradual and balanced enlargement of NATO to include those States that share with us the same democratic values and respect for human rights and the rule of law. The question of the enlargement of NATO to the east cannot, however, overshadow the essential transatlantic dimension which must remain the cornerstone of European security. On the other hand, any increase in the membership of NATO must not create new divisions in Europe. Therefore, Portugal affirms that all the possibilities of the Partnership for Peace, a mechanism aimed at uniting countries of the Eurasian region in activities of military cooperation, must be pursued. 16 Last year, I stated here that Portugal considers the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty fundamental for international security. As we approach the 1995 Conference I should like to reiterate the intention of my Government to support all efforts that will lead to the unconditional and indefinite extension of that instrument. While referring to security, I should like to welcome and support the initiative announced here yesterday by President Clinton to reach an agreement on reducing the proliferation of anti-personnel mines. Such an initiative could not be more timely and, for our part, I can announce here that Portugal is in the process of preparing legislation to outlaw the commercialization of those weapons and their production. In the context of Europe, I cannot avoid referring to the situation in the former Yugoslavia and, in particular, to the terrible conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Despite all the efforts applied towards bringing an end to that situation, war goes on with its tragic fare of death, destruction and suffering. The international community has demonstrated that it possesses a common interest in the search for a political solution to the conflict. We must, however, recognize that this progress is insufficient and that, without real political will shown by all parties directly involved, a stable and long-lasting solution will never be found. Portugal has actively participated in the efforts of the international community with both men and matériel, and will continue to remain on the ground for as long as it is useful and necessary. We are, in fact, reinforcing the Portuguese contingent in the area within the activities of the Western European Union (WEU). Sub-Saharan Africa, to which my country is linked by particularly strong cultural and historical ties, continues to be the region of the planet with the most worrying levels of development. Portugal has defended the idea that the international community should grant Africa first priority, commensurate with the unparalleled magnitude of the problems that need to be overcome. But firstly, Africans themselves must prove that underdevelopment is not inevitable. And the greatest contribution that they can make in this direction is a determined commitment to search for peaceful solutions to both existing and potential conflicts, and a continued deepening of the process of political and social democratization on the continent, as well as the adoption of indispensable economic reforms. The first free and democratic elections in South Africa and the investiture of Nelson Mandela as its Head of State, as well as the formation of a Government of national unity, represent historic achievements not only because they have left apartheid behind but also because they have proved the viability of finding in Africa peaceful solutions to complex situations. Portugal, which actively participated in all efforts to support the process of democratic transition in that country, warmly salutes the new South Africa, a country which is host to an important Portuguese community. We believe that the human, economic and technological potential of that country can undoubtedly constitute an important factor for economic recovery in all of southern Africa. In Mozambique also there are signs that the hopes of its people with regard to the peace process will not be disappointed. The completion of the cantonment and demobilization processes, the formation, despite some delays, of the new armed forces and the peaceful manner in which the electoral campaign has been conducted are all crucial achievements to be recognized, and foretell the coming elections of 27 and 28 October 1994 as being a crucial moment for the future of Mozambique. We appeal to the main Mozambican political forces to find the forms of dialogue and understanding conducive to guaranteeing a true national reconciliation with full respect for democratic principles. Portugal was an observer at the negotiations and is represented in all the commissions created by the peace accord, playing a major role in the formation of the new army, as well as participating significantly in the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ). Portugal will remain committed to following this process closely in the context of the accords and we consider it important that the international community support Mozambique not only during this particular phase but also in what we hope will be the following stage of national reconstruction and reconciliation. In southern Africa, one of the longest, and surely deadliest, conflicts the world has ever known rages on. Angola continues to be the stage for a war that has already claimed hundreds of thousands of innocent victims. Portugal, as a member of the troika of observer countries, will continue to do all it can in actively supporting the United Nations mediation in the person of 17 the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, whose efforts I take this opportunity to salute, in the search for a definitive solution to the Angolan conflict. The international community cannot and must not forget the origins of the current conflict, which frustrated the hopes of the Angolan people created after the Bicesse accords and the elections of September 1992. Beyond attributing blame, it is now more important not to give up the efforts to bring this terrible conflict to an end. The Lusaka negotiations, which seek to promote - within the context of respect for the peace accords and relevant resolutions of the Security Council - a genuine reconciliation in Angola, have reached a crucial stage. The complete acceptance by the Angolan Government and UNITA of the set of proposals of the mediation on national reconciliation constitutes an important step. UNAVEM II must be given the necessary means to complete its mission. For this to happen, appropriate forces must be placed on the ground immediately following the initialling of the accords and the correct dimensions of that peace-keeping operation must be defined. In any case, peace will not be possible unless there is a genuine will on the part of the Angolans themselves. I appeal here to the Angolan Government and UNITA to do all in their power so that this opportunity is not lost. I also appeal to the international community to redouble its commitment and support. Despite the continuation of the conflict in Angola, the historical changes under way in southern Africa offer possibilities which must be consolidated and developed. Portugal has from the very beginning supported the project for a dialogue between the European Union and that region of Africa, an idea that has just been expressed in the recent Berlin Conference between the European Union and the Southern African Development Community (SADC). As was stated in the Berlin Declaration, the aim of this dialogue is, inter alia, the promotion and development of trade, investment and cooperation, in order to stimulate a balanced development of that region which may, in turn, provide an engine for progress in the rest of the continent. The dramatic situation in Rwanda shows how important the role of the Organization of African Unity is in the prevention of similar situations, namely through the implementation of its mechanism for the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts created last year on 29 July at the Cairo Summit. From the very beginning, Portugal has supported the creation of this mechanism and, in conjunction with African and other like-minded countries, is prepared to participate actively in the search for means that will permit the empowerment of such an instrument. I cannot end this reference to Africa without welcoming the way in which the first democratic and free elections were held in Guinea-Bissau and expressing satisfaction at the peaceful and orderly climate that has characterized the campaign for the elections in Sao Tome and Principe, to be held in a few days. One of the current priorities of our foreign policy is the convergence of efforts with those countries which share with us the Portuguese language. With them we are building a community which I am sure will come to represent a new and exemplary political reality. We are also seeking to deepen the political dialogue and cooperation between Europe and Latin America. That cooperation is institutionalized in its own mechanisms, among which I single out the dialogue between the European Union and the Rio Group as well as the Ibero-American Summits. These in turn have allowed open and profound discussions of political questions of common interest to countries united by close historical and cultural ties and by shared sensitivities. This is what happened, once again, at the Summit in Cartagena, Colombia. I am glad to be able to acknowledge here the clear evolution towards democracy and respect for human rights that has occurred in all of Latin America and the Caribbean. That very positive evolution contrasts even more strongly with such shocking situations as that of Haiti, a country where conditions are being created for the re-establishment of democratic constitutional order following the intervention of a multinational force authorized by the United Nations Security Council. Portugal continues to devote special attention to the evolution of the situation in North Africa. To that end, we have advocated a rapprochement with the countries of that area in accordance with the Lisbon Declaration of the European Council, which, I recall, defined a new concept for a political, economic, social and cultural relationship between the European Union and the Maghreb. Following the Corfu meeting of the European Council, 18 which attached particular importance to stability and security in the Mediterranean, we reaffirm our dedication to a dialogue and a deepening of ties with the countries of the region. Nor can we defend any other approach when we consider the geographical proximity and close historical ties that unite Portugal and North Africa. In fact, it is important that the countries of both sides of the Mediterranean deepen their dialogue so that we can avoid the spread of an idea which we reject - that of conflict between civilizations. On the contrary, we should value the concept that countries with different political ideas and whose populations espouse diverse religions are able to establish ties of trust and true cooperation. It is my opinion that we have today well-founded reasons to believe that a comprehensive peace in the Middle East will be a reality in the not-too-distant future. The accords already signed between Israel and the Palestinians on the one hand and Israel and Jordan on the other testify to their determination in seeking a comprehensive, just and lasting peace. The achievements already made will certainly serve as a catalyst for new initiatives. From this perspective, the decisions and resolutions of the United Nations should reflect the positive developments already registered. It is also necessary that the international community, and in particular the countries of the region, support the efforts under way. We hope that progress in the peace process, in both its bilateral and multilateral aspects, foreshadows the capacity to generate a new era of stability and development in that part of the world. Universalism has always marked the ideas and behaviour of the Portuguese. In Asia Portugal has centuries-old ties with a number of countries which we wish to maintain and develop. It is with great admiration that we look upon the development of some areas of that continent. We are certain that the countries of that region will have ever-increasing importance in the determination of the fate of our planet. Portugal attaches the greatest importance to respect for human rights, so much so that this respect can be considered to be a major pillar of its foreign policy. Our action has as a fixed reference point the results of the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, which rejected any regression or reduction of the established norms. We support the work of the High Commissioner and the Centre for Human Rights, both of which should be granted the necessary financial means for an efficient exercise of their functions. We defend with particular commitment the principle of universality when applied to respect for human rights and their indivisibility, and we oppose any attempt to subordinate their strict observance to other objectives. On this issue, we cannot and must not yield. We believe that democracy, respect for human rights and development are mutually reinforcing. We attach the greatest importance to the international conferences to be held in 1995: the World Summit for Social Development and the World Conference on Women. We consider promising the positive results recently achieved in Cairo by the International Conference on Population and Development, which we welcome. In the context of human rights, among which this Organization has always included with special distinction the right to self-determination, I feel duty-bound to touch upon a question to which the international community has been giving growing attention. I am referring to the Non-Self-Governing Territory of East Timor. I reaffirm before this Assembly that Portugal has no specific objective concerning the question of East Timor beyond the defence of the rights of its people and the conclusion of the process of decolonizing the Territory in accordance with international law and with full respect for the legitimate rights of the Timorese people. For this reason, we remain committed to talks that, under the auspices of the Secretary-General, are being held with the Indonesian Government with the aim of finding a just, comprehensive and internationally acceptable solution. Undoubtedly, progress has been slow and we have not advanced on the substance of the matter. But, as a reading of the progress report of the Secretary-General reveals - and I must express here a word of appreciation to him - some steps have been taken, not only through the so-called confidence-building measures, but also with the involvement of the Timorese themselves in the search for a solution to a problem in which they are the principal interested party. East Timor has recently ceased to be an almost forgotten Territory. We sincerely hope that the growing attention that has been granted it will contribute decisively to an improvement in the concrete situation of its people and to the adoption of a more coherent attitude 19 in the recognition and defence of their legitimate and inalienable rights. On 16 November the Convention on the Law of the Sea will come into force, culminating a long and important process which will open new and determinant channels of action and cooperation. The importance of this area will clearly justify the General Assembly’s adopting by consensus the draft resolution of the Economic and Social Council on the proclamation of 1998 as the international year of the oceans. We are confident that its proclamation will contribute in an effective manner to a wider debate and a greater enlightenment of world public opinion on the importance of the problems which we face in this area, thus enabling the adoption of solutions that will permit their resolution at a global level. Portugal actively participates in this debate, seeking with the holding of Lisbon Expo/98 - the last great exposition of the twentieth century, the subject-matter of which is directly related to this area - to provide an important instrument for the achievement of the goals we have set. In conclusion, I should like to reflect upon the institutional reforms that are so necessary for adapting the Organization to the new international context, its challenges and the greater possibilities of global cooperation. These reforms, which we believe to be essential and urgent, should be carried out with transparency and on a consensual basis. They must be realistic and be aimed at increasing efficiency. Although we are still at a preliminary stage, we consider it useful to state here the aim of our thinking on this matter. First of all, we believe that it is necessary to reinforce the efficiency and responsibility of the Security Council. We maintain that a third category of members should not be created beyond those of permanent and non-permanent members. A pragmatic and reasonable solution to ensure greater representation on the Council would be to increase the number of non-permanent members by one for each region. We are also of the opinion that the number of permanent members should be increased, but such an increase should not be achieved at the expense of the number of non-permanent members.We encourage regional agreements which, through increased rotation, will permit greater representation on the Council. It is crucial that permanent members of the Council should have the ability and the political will to assume fully the responsibilities that come with that status as regards the maintenance of international peace and security. Some States have declared themselves ready to assume greater responsibilities in regard to the achievement of the objectives of the Charter. The Portuguese Government declares - here today - its support for the inclusion of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council. Both the unified Germany, a country that provided a notable incentive for the construction of the European Union, and Japan, a great Power of the Asia-Pacific region, are in a position to make an effective contribution towards increasing the weight and the efficiency of the Security Council. It would however be difficult to comprehend if an increase in the number of the permanent members did not also include the southern hemisphere of our planet. In this context, and among the eligible countries, we point naturally to Brazil, a founding Member of the United Nations, the largest country in Latin America and a State that has unequivocally abided by the principles of the Charter. Portugal is a candidate for a seat on the Security Council for the biennium which begins in 1997. Our candidature reflects a position of profound commitment to the main objectives of the United Nations as set out in the Charter. It reflects also our desire to contribute fully to the maintenance of international peace and security. Thus, Portugal reaffirms its commitment with regard to the objectives of the United Nations, which my country has supported with increasing responsibility as an active participant in the different areas of the Organization and, particularly, in the United Nations peace-keeping operations. We are approaching the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations Charter. Portugal will seek to emphasize this commemoration and to ensure that its significance is understood by the public at large and, in particular, by young people. In this celebration, we wish to contribute to renewing our ideals and sparking people’s conscience in order to promote increased participation in the objectives established by the Charter of the United Nations. In short, this means the creation of a greater sensitivity to the irreplaceable role of the United Nations in the resolution of the major issues faced by humanity at the turn of the century. It is with great pleasure that I join the previous speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this Assembly. The great African country that you represent, Côte d’Ivoire, has always played an active and constructive role in our Organization. We are delighted to have you presiding over our proceedings. 8 My German ministerial colleague, Mr. Klaus Kinkel, spoke this morning on behalf of the European Union. The views of my delegation are faithfully reflected in his statement and, consequently, there is no need for me to address the positions he has outlined. Five years ago the talk was of a new international order. The events that shook Eastern Europe at that time led us to believe that the old bipolar world had expired and that another order was bound to take its place. For some, the reaction to the aggression against Kuwait marked the beginning of this new phase. Reality did not live up to our hopes. Today we have come to understand that the equilibrium based on a bipolar world did not have a 'natural successor' and that it is up to us to build a new one, little by little, through trial and error. Of course, a new equilibrium is emerging in several parts of the world. First, there is the highly symbolic case of the Middle East. Even if implementation of the Washington and Cairo agreements is proving as arduous as was expected, every new stage constitutes an important step towards lasting peace. The historic rapprochement between Israel and Jordan strengthens this prospect. The new South Africa, too, is facing immense challenges, but at the same time it has become a beacon of hope for the entire African continent. The strengthening of democracy and the progress made in regional integration in Latin America seem to us yet another meaningful evolution. A number of countries in this region have now found the way towards sustainable economic development. The same holds true for Asia, where, moreover, a readiness for dialogue now exists. The regional Forum launched by the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), contacts on the Korean peninsula and, at another level, the dialogue between the two sides of the Formosa Strait all contribute towards a new climate of confidence. While preparing to welcome four new members, the European Union has signed cooperation agreements with the majority of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe that might ultimately lead to full membership. Simultaneously, new geostrategic ties are being forged with Russia. The same will for dialogue is reflected in the discussion of major issues that concern the future of our Organization, such as reform of the Security Council. Even if divergences of opinion remain on various points, the sense of common interest prevails. Belgium’s major concern remains the achievement of a more representative Council without diminishing its decision-making capacity. We prefer therefore to avoid ambitious projects that would give privileged status to several 'regional Powers' according to imprecise criteria but would not reinforce the Council’s ability to shoulder its responsibilities. Why not, as a first step, adapt the Council’s membership on the basis of unanimously agreed criteria? The international community could, as a measure with immediate advantageous effect, grant an additional non-permanent seat to the regions that consider themselves to be underrepresented and confer permanent member status on those two economic Powers whose positive contribution to world affairs has long been recognized. These steps, however encouraging, do not by themselves constitute a new international agreement. Progress and the readiness for rapprochement are by no means universal: Central Africa and Bosnia and Herzegovina are cases in point. The situation in Rwanda is uppermost in our minds. The threat it represents of destabilization in Burundi and the neighbouring countries has become a constant cause for worry in recent months. However deep the hatred born of the recent or the distant past, reconciliation is the only alternative. We appeal to the leaders and prominent citizens of these countries to unite their efforts to broaden the base of political power and to stand firm against extremists. Only when these conditions are met can emergency aid make way for durable reconstruction. Naturally, my country will contribute to each stage of this renewal. The civil war in the former Yugoslavia has cast first Europe and then the entire world into profound disarray. Yet for more than three years now, we have been working relentlessly to put an end to this tragedy. The United Nations Protection Force has become one of the largest peace-keeping missions ever set up by our Organization. The United Nations and the European Union have worked together tirelessly to find a negotiated solution. The main Powers have now added their weight 9 to these efforts. Let us hope that the latest attempt by the European Union, the United States and the Russian Federation will finally succeed in halting the bloodshed. From this rostrum I call upon the parties to seize this opportunity: put an end to madness and let peace return. I have just touched upon two cases of civil war where racial hatred has led to particularly inhumane behaviour. More than ever, we must remain unyielding when human rights are systematically violated. We must aim to banish every regime that is based on practices of 'ethnic cleansing'. So that this lesson may never be forgotten, Belgium favours the establishment of an international penal jurisdiction and expresses the wish that the international community do whatever is necessary to render it operational as soon as possible. In the meantime, we believe that the Tribunal created to judge the war crimes perpetrated in the former Yugoslavia will stand as a valuable precedent, which we would like to see extended to the crimes committed in Rwanda as soon as possible. Along the same lines, my Government welcomes the appointment of a High Commissioner for Human Rights. The operational initiatives launched by Mr. Ayala Lasso - sending human rights monitors to Rwanda, for instance - have received early and concrete support from Belgium, among others. I am convinced that Mr. Ayala Lasso’s actions will strengthen the respect for human rights and promote a successful dialogue among political leaders and human rights activists in every part of the world. This dialogue will take into account the differing approaches inspired by various cultures and religions, but in my opinion, it would lose its meaning if it were to compromise on the one essential point: the respect owed to the physical and moral integrity of every human being. For Belgium, the crisis in Rwanda has marked the international agenda. In the wake of the genocide, death lashed out blindly at a population in exile, pushing back the limits of horror already reached in Bosnia and Somalia. My fellow citizens were deeply troubled by the ruin of so many efforts of development, the failure of so many attempts at reconciliation. The savage killing of 10 Belgian 'blue helmets', who were among the 100 United Nations peace-keepers slain since the beginning of this year, highlights the unmistakable fragility of peace-keeping operations. I believe the best way to honour all those who lost their lives is by reflecting in particular upon the limits and possibilities of international action. In this regard, the common experience in which Belgium took part - in the former Yugoslavia, in Somalia and in Rwanda - has enabled us, sometimes in tragic circumstances, to make a number of observations for future use. I intend to group them around four principles that seem to me essential. First: peace-keeping operations cannot be improvised. Second: once decided, they should be given the means to achieve their aims. Third: for these means to function fully, we should ensure their operational and political coherence. And, finally, as long as the security of the personnel involved cannot be guaranteed, it will become increasingly difficult to find troop contributors for peace-keeping missions, which will thereby reduce them to a purely theoretical instrument. First, the principle of 'non-improvisation' implies two things. The first is that the Organization must at all times be able to mobilize the necessary means for a peace-keeping operation and to this end rely on the solidarity of all its members. This means that it is essential to reinforce the military peace-keeping capacity of the Organization. In the absence of a United Nations multilateral force that can be deployed quickly, generalized offers of stand-by troops and equipment and standardization of equipment and procedures are objectives we must pursue diligently. To this end I have sent the Secretary-General a list of possible Belgian contributions which could be made available for peace-keeping operations. The second implication is that, even though solidarity remains the basis for conceiving and implementing peace-keeping, this solidarity cannot be blind and automatic. Each specific operation must be the result of careful consideration. The launching of a new peace-keeping operation should only be envisaged and seriously considered when all other means of solving the crisis have been exhausted, including at the regional level. Chapter VI, as well as 'An Agenda for Peace', offer a wide choice of instruments for solving a crisis through negotiation, arbitration, and so on. Those who forget that peace-keeping operations are not a panacea do the Organization a disservice and often unwittingly contribute to making situations worse rather than solving them. Once it has been decided by the Security Council, a peace-keeping operation becomes everybody’s business. All Member States must contribute according to their 10 possibilities and as circumstances dictate. Of course, Member States must retain the sovereign right to decide whether or not to participate in a given peace-keeping operation, but in so doing, they should look beyond the criterion of national interest. All States should cooperate actively with a view to the success of the operation by facilitating its movements, supplies, reinforcements and the prepositioning of reserve troops. All States should use their diplomatic influence to help the Secretary-General achieve the political objectives of an operation. And, finally, all States must adhere to their financial obligations with respect to an operation. Secondly, a peace-keeping operation must be based on the consent of the parties, appropriate flexibility and adequate information. Every operation must be based on consensus among the States legitimately involved. The conflicting parties themselves must agree to the deployment and aims of the operation, except in the case of an obvious humanitarian catastrophe. In this all-too-frequent case, the Security Council’s decision to act outside the framework of the traditional mandate and disregard the three usual conditions - in other words, agreement by the parties, the political process and a cease-fire - must be taken with great care. The Council must express this decision clearly in the mandate and accept all its consequences. An operation must at all times have the strength necessary to execute its mission safely. This rule is of utmost importance. It implies, to begin with, sufficient manpower and flexible rules of engagement to respond to the unexpected. It also implies adequate equipment to fulfil the mandate and to react to emergencies. The deployment of a military reserve in the vicinity has already proven its usefulness, for example, in Somalia. It is a precautionary measure we should envisage more often in the future. As a rule, a force subject to local provocation must always have the choice between evacuating or remaining in place, between retreat or riposte. But the use of force is not the first option to be considered in order to discourage resistance to a peace-keeping operation. Education and persuasion will do miracles among populations that are often ill-informed or even misguided about the objectives of a peace-keeping operation. Experience has shown that it is absolutely necessary to develop a coherent information strategy. Each peace-keeping operation should be provided with an information unit and a radio transmitter to broadcast its message. Moreover, the ability to neutralize hostile propaganda sources should be put to use each time this propaganda threatens the safety of part of a population or United Nations personnel. The third consideration is that the cohesion of the command and control structures and consultations on a regular basis with troop-contributing countries are conditions essential to the success of an operation. The military and political control of an operation must rest with the United Nations or with a duly mandated body. This principle has two consequences. Any attempt by the Commander of the Force or of a small contingent to report directly only to national authorities will reduce the cohesion of the multilateral operation. The flexibility required by a commander in the field to deal with the unexpected, however, is a different matter. When an action is undertaken by a regional or multilateral force it must be authorized by the Security Council. However, this authorization should not reduce the operational autonomy of the commanders of such an operation. Those who take the risk must be in control. Moreover, for each operation a consultation committee should be created in which troop contributors, the members of the Security Council and the Secretariat can meet at regular intervals. This committee will enable the contributors better to assist the Secretariat in managing the operation. It will also generate a real dialogue between contributors and the members of the Council, each time the latter prepare to take a decision which modifies the basic conditions of the operation. Contributors often have a better knowledge of the situation in the field and are best placed to judge whether a new task is feasible or acceptable. Without troop contributors the resolutions of the Council would remain ineffectual. As a fourth and last consideration, the security of the blue helmets is as much a concern of the contributing countries as of the Secretariat. The prosecution of those who attack the peace-keeping forces must be efficiently organized. The responsibility of a Government for its contingent does not stop with its dispatch to the field of operations. The contributing country has the right to watch over the 11 safety of its compatriots at all times. Ultimately, security must be the decisive factor for a contributing country to continue or suspend its participation in a peace-keeping operation. It seems normal, therefore, that a troop contributor should be entitled to equip its contingent from the start with sufficient defensive armament. Later, when unexpected circumstances place the contingent in a situation of real danger, the Security Council and the Secretary-General must immediately adapt the mandate and, if necessary, the rules of engagement to that situation. It is a fundamental duty of the United Nations to organize the international prosecution of those who attack United Nations personnel. The impunity granted so far to the perpetrators of such crimes gives rise to an uneasy feeling and undermines the credibility of the United Nations in the eyes of world opinion. The authority of our Organization over those whom it is trying to reconcile is negatively affected by this, and the Governments that contribute troops are increasingly worried. In our opinion, it is essential to speed up the adoption of a convention on the security of United Nations personnel, as well as of the investigations and the effective prosecution of those who attack our personnel. I hope that these thoughts that I have shared with the Assembly will contribute to improving the procedures and reinforcing the means put into effect by our Organization to face up to the new situations that it needs to tackle. In fact, these changes deserve to be formalized when any revision of the Charter takes place. The functioning of the peace-keeping operations would be greatly improved by this. Alexis de Tocqueville wrote: 'Amongst the laws that govern human societies, there is one that seems clearer and more precise than all others. If men are to remain civilized, or become so, the art of association must grow and improve at the same rate as the equality of their conditions'. Though this 'art of association' affects civil societies in the first place, it is also, and more than ever, a concern of our society of Governments. Launching peace-keeping operations is without doubt a most generous expression of this art of acting together. In the meantime, the fact that we have been able to multiply peace-keeping operations in difficult political, financial and material circumstances is nothing short of miraculous and prompts us to pay tribute to all the people who have been working tirelessly within the Secretariat as well as in the field. It is with great pleasure that I present my compliments to you, Mr. Amara Essy, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, and congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its current session. I would also like to extend my recognition to Ambassador Samuel Insanally, who, as President of the Assembly at its forty-eighth session, dignified not only his own country, Guyana, but all the countries of the Amazon and South American region as well. I also greet the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to whom I convey my gratitude for the tireless efforts he has been undertaking at the head of this Organization. The close of this century is marked by the force of transformation. In the last few years there has been prodigious change. This has been of such a radical nature that we could, like Hamlet, say that 'The time is out of joint' (Shakespeare, Hamlet, Act I, scene v). The process has been so fascinating that some have deluded themselves with the fantasy that the future is already under control. That is not the case. Transformation does not have a fixed, inexorable course. We must not allow ourselves to be enticed by hasty interpretations or by mere appearances. It is our responsibility to give meaning to change and to guide trends in accordance with the greater interests of the world community. 1 It will be five years next November since the Berlin Wall crumbled. That period is sufficient for evaluating the distances that have been covered and, above all, for charting a course that will lead us to a safe harbour. The cold war took place under the sign of denial, a situation reflected even in the language that marked the period. The expressions that identified and explained almost 40 years of tense relationships denoted confrontation, exclusion or, at best, uncomfortable coexistence of opposites. The catchphrases of the day were 'iron curtain', 'containment' and 'balance of terror'. Today we are in the midst of transition. Taking stock of these last few years, we can say that the results, though tenuous and imperfect, are positive. The cause of peace has made significant headway. Nuclear war has ceased to be an impending threat. Conflicts which many of us judged insoluble either have been or are in the process of being settled through dialogue and negotiation. In southern Africa and in the Middle East, steps of historic significance have been taken toward a more just and a more peaceful world. In Central America and in South-East Asia, progress is tangible. Throughout the greater part of our planet, the logic of confrontation is giving way to the logic of cooperation. It is that very logic that we wish to see firmly established in our own region. Peace and fraternity are Latin America’s vocation. We have been striving to bring the sister Republic of Cuba fully into the inter-American and international fold by means of a policy of outstretched hands, of dialogue and of rapprochement. Political, economic and commercial isolation, apart from being unjustifiable, only contributes to aggravating the hardship endured by the Cuban people at a time when we perceive positive indications of democratic reform and of reconciliation. Here too the stasis of confrontation must give way to the dynamics of dialogue, putting to rest this remnant of the cold war. Given a set of entirely different characteristics, we are equally interested in promoting a lasting solution to the Haitian crisis, the return to office of President Jean- Bertrand Aristide, and national reconciliation. The diplomatic efforts of the international community, which we firmly support, must have as their point of reference the prompt removal of the de facto authorities by peaceful means - the only means to avoid even greater suffering for the Haitian people. We consider it disturbing that the principles of non-intervention and self-determination are the object of interpretations that are incompatible with the charters of the United Nations and of the Organization of American States. The gravity of the Haitian crisis and the urgency of the need to solve it do not make us unable to see the inherent risks of a situation that evokes traumas and scars that are still very vivid in the memory of Latin America. Once the legitimate Government is re- established, it will be the responsibility of the international community to provide Haiti with assistance in the daunting task of national reconstruction. We are still far from universal peace. Conflicts of enormous cruelty shock the world and are the cause of unspeakable suffering for millions of human beings. Rwanda and Bosnia and Herzegovina are emblematic tragedies of our times. The scenes of horror shown by the media attest to the difficulty of finding effective solutions to the imbalances which challenge all peoples. The intensification of migratory flows toward developed countries has been accompanied by an exacerbation of xenophobia and racial discrimination. Critical situations continue to challenge the international community’s ability to ensure peace and harmony. In Angola, a country so closely linked to Brazil by historic and cultural ties, we witness with pain and indignation the prolongation of a conflict that is the longest and most devastating civil war today. We are encouraged by the prospects that the negotiations under way in Lusaka between the Government of Angola and UNITA may be promptly concluded. In paying a tribute to President José Eduardo dos Santos for his political conduct, we urge UNITA to demonstrate a real commitment to stability and peace in the country, and we call upon all those with an influence on the Angolan crisis to do likewise. We welcome the progress achieved in Mozambique. The process of national reconciliation will culminate in the general elections to be held next October, when the people of Mozambique will be able to choose, in free and fair elections, the government that will lead the country in this new era of its history. President Joaquim Chissano has played a central role in this process. Brazil takes pride in the fact that Brazilian troops are participating, through the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ), in the reconstruction of Mozambique. In the case of East Timor, we have also noted positive signals in the negotiating process promoted by the Secretary-General, to whom we pay a tribute. Democracy and the values associated with it are the greatest conquest of our time. We are experiencing an 2 ethical revolution. The concern with human rights gains universality alongside a growing awareness of the imperative of public probity. The international context has ceased to be the exclusive domain of the raison d’état and has acquired a more human dimension directed to the welfare of the individual. In the economic and commercial sphere, recent developments are also positive. After eight years of difficult negotiations within the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), we adopted the Marrakesh agreements. The World Trade Organization (WTO) will open up new and promising outlooks for the economic relationship among nations. Unilateralism and protectionism, derived from parochial interests, will lose any semblance of legitimacy. The effective progress achieved cannot obscure the fact that there are challenges that continue to demand firm resolve from the international community. The fundamental rights of individuals, despite having been incorporated into the realm of universally recognized values, still demand the firm and decided support of all those who believe in them. The social conditions of the majority of the world’s population continue to deteriorate. In the last 20 years, the gap has widened between rich and poor nations, between the millions of people who are adequately fed and educated and have a surplus for leisure and the billions who are struggling for survival. The pressures for migration toward the developed North and the many conflicts of the impoverished South are two sides of the same coin. Youth, in particular, continues to be a victim of deprivation and of a lack of prospects in most of the world. The globalization of the economy and the strengthening of free trade have yet to demonstrate in practice their undeniable potential as factors of growth and well-being. Lingering protectionism, now draped in new colours, resists the assault of economic rationality. The positive impact of the Marrakesh agreements is under substantial threat from new conditionalities that will have a restrictive effect on the flows of international trade. Issues that are in themselves legitimate, such as the protection of the environment and universally accepted labour standards, cannot and should not serve as pretexts for even greater barriers to the access of goods produced in poor countries to the markets of wealthier nations. The cost of readjustment of the most prosperous economies cannot be shunted onto the shoulders of those who possess little or nothing. The mastery of technology is a major watershed between industrialized and developing countries. The difficulties in access to advanced technologies are an obstacle to overcoming the disadvantages of developing countries, reducing their competitiveness and creating barriers to the transformation of productive processes. The new international division of labour cannot re-enact past formulas that have proved to be inefficient. The competitive integration of developing countries into the world economy must build upon dynamic comparative advantages, not static ones, with an increasing integration of knowledge into the productive process. Alongside the indispensable internal efforts of each country, such a qualitative leap requires an international environment based on cooperation. In order to consolidate peace and ensure that the progress already achieved shall be irreversible, we must be able to develop a vision for our future, an attainable and forward-looking Utopia. Brazil is convinced that a truly new order must be based on a pluralistic and democratic perspective on international relations. We do not contend unrealistically that States and other international players will refrain from affirming their specific and often conflicting interests. The fact is that we all stand to gain, and our interests will be better served, once the basic aspirations of the great majority have been reasonably satisfied. Interdependence must be understood in an integrated way, and not merely as the expression of a market- economy phenomenon. It presupposes the political ability to act in coordination with others toward the fulfilment of objectives shared by all mankind. In an interdependent world the improvement of living conditions in a poor country may have an impact on the creation of jobs in a developed nation. The integration of those that are excluded and the promotion of participation by all in world affairs is not only a moral obligation, but, first and foremost, a demonstration of lucid judgement. The fundamental commitment to development is the cornerstone of the order to which Brazil aspires. This concept has the advantage of encompassing the essential needs of all nations, large and small, rich and poor. Development reinforces freedom, invests the dignity of man with a concrete dimension, stresses efficiency, 3 promotes stability and enhances democracy. Development builds peace. The promotion of development stands to benefit from the lessons of the past. We must formulate a concept of development that recognizes each country as the main actor in creating its own prosperity, while incorporating the various features of its international dimension in the fields of trade, investment and flows of technology. A renewed international effort in favour of development will be successful only under an active and mutually advantageous partnership between the countries of the North and those of the South. Advancement of the interests of the richer nations requires their involvement in efforts to overcome the backwardness of the less prosperous. To hold the opposite view would be tantamount to believing that a fire in our neighbour’s house cannot reach over the fence into our own. In short, it is an absurdity the price of which even the wealthiest cannot afford. The nations of the world have a fundamental role to play in the construction of an open and equitable international system. We must undertake a profound reformulation of the United Nations performance in promoting development. No other task under the United Nations mandate will more adequately support and promote peace and establish a just and stable order. We must avoid the crystallization of an undesirable division of labour between the United Nations on the one hand and the Bretton Woods institutions on the other. Peace and development constitute an indivisible whole and must support each other. This great forum cannot be kept outside decisions on matters arising from objectives inscribed in its very Charter. These concerns have been at the root of the launching of the Agenda for Development, in which Brazilian diplomacy has been deeply involved. Several United Nations Conferences, some having already taken place, others yet to come, are significantly contributing to shedding light upon the need for a comprehensive and coordinated consideration of the development issue. In one way or another, development was a central concern, or will continue to be so, in Rio de Janeiro at the Conference on Environment and Development, in Vienna at the Conference on Human Rights, and in Cairo at the Conference on Population and Development, and it will continue to be so in the forthcoming meetings in Copenhagen on Social Development, and in Beijing, on Women. Awareness of the fact that the decisions reached at these encounters will produce effective results only if all these issues are examined in an integrated fashion is becoming increasingly firm and universal. With a view to fostering a debate on all such issues in a wider conceptual framework, the Brazilian Government proposes the convening of a United Nations conference on development, possibly in 1996, which would seek to synthesize the initiatives and programmes designed to promote human dignity and well-being. Democracy should be the rule for political relations within and among States. To bring democracy into politics and international relations is a goal which can be turned into reality. The strengthening of the role of the General Assembly and the expansion of the Security Council, with the participation of developing countries in all member categories are important and necessary steps on the road to democratization and greater legitimacy. Like other Member States, we favour a reform of the Security Council that will increase its effectiveness. We understand that such effectiveness will be ensured only by a composition truly representative of the world community. At the beginning of this month the Heads of State and Government of the 14 nations from Latin America and the Caribbean which form the Group of Rio met in Rio de Janeiro and stated that 'in accordance with their legal tradition and their contribution to the cause of peace, the Latin American and Caribbean region must be included in any expansion of the Security Council'. Brazil has participated actively in the debate on the expansion of the Security Council. We have clearly stated our readiness to assume all responsibilities required of countries eligible to occupy permanent seats. Elected to the Security Council for the current period, Brazil has lived up to its responsibilities. We have based our positions on respect for principles such as non-intervention, as well as on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States; we have consistently favoured peaceful and negotiated solutions to conflicts, as well as consensus; we have stood by the rule of law in safeguarding the international public order; we have risen 4 in defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms; and we have increasingly participated in peace-keeping operations in several regions of the globe. As part of Latin America, we are proud of sharing its long history of peace. Latin America is the least armed region of the world and the only one to have become, by virtue of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, definitively free from nuclear weapons. Cuba’s adherence to the Treaty, announced in a letter from President Fidel Castro to President Itamar Franco - in response to a Brazilian initiative - has brought this process to a conclusion. Latin America has been a factor of international stability in a turbulent world. Our legal tradition, built through decades of efforts to regulate inter-American relations, represents a relevant contribution to the international community. As pioneers in the promotion of disarmament, we feel entitled to seek equivalent gestures from the entire international community, and in particular from the nuclear-weapon States. In this context, we attribute special significance to the prompt adoption, through multilaterally negotiated commitments, of effective measures to reduce, and not merely control, their arsenals, including sensitive nuclear material such as plutonium. It is likewise imperative that negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty be successfully concluded, leading to signature. Brazil is ready to join in the construction of a new international agenda based on universal participation and cooperation for peace and development. This readiness derives from our own identity. We are a pluralist and open society, having emerged from the meeting of different cultures and ways of life, which in turn produced a new culture and way of life, founded on tolerance and understanding. We enjoy peacefully defined borders with 10 neighbouring countries, and an absence of conflicts for more than 120 years. Forged through dialogue, conciliation and peaceful reform, Brazilian society is experiencing a moment of intense democratic affirmation under the leadership of President Itamar Franco. In a few days we shall be holding the largest elections in our country’s history. Nearly 100 million voters will cast their ballots, in an atmosphere of absolute freedom, to choose their representatives in the executive and legislative branches at the State and federal levels from as many as 35,000 candidates. Ours is one of the most diversified economies in the southern hemisphere. As we head toward economic stability, with a strong currency, conditions become favourable for the resumption of a sustained process of economic growth which will undoubtedly place Brazil once again among the most dynamic economies in the world. We have made important advances in increasing the exposure of our economy to world trade. As of next January, we will have brought into force a common external tariff, along with Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay, and will have consolidated a Customs Union capable of generating growth and prosperity, one of the first customs unions among developing countries. The interest expressed by other South American countries in joining MERCOSUR - Common Market of the South - provides ample proof that the vision of a South American free trade area is gradually materializing. These accomplishments represent a telling example of the enterprising capacity of Latin American nations, and constitute a fundamental step toward a harmonious and integrated South America. Our efforts in developing political and economic cooperation go well beyond Latin America. In line with the universal inspiration of our diplomacy, we have set out to reinforce the ties that associate us to friendly nations in all regions of the globe, as well as to expand into new and important political and commercial partnerships. Such actions range from the intensification of traditional relations within our hemisphere and with industrialized countries to new and creative formulas for cooperating with countries in Africa, Asia and the Middle East. In all cases, we have tried to raise the dialogue to increasingly higher levels and, in many instances, have succeeded in establishing dynamic and privileged relationships. The ties between Brazil and African nations have been strengthened through the action taken to give structure to the community of Portuguese-speaking countries. This new and important forum will unite our brothers and sisters on different continents and lead to even greater understanding and cooperation. Beginning in the South Atlantic which we share, we intend to expand the horizons of cooperation between America and Africa, with the added strength, in the political and moral spheres, brought about by the election of Nelson Mandela in the new South Africa. 5 The zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic will transform this area into a zone free of nuclear weapons, constituting an example of solidarity and brotherhood between two continents. With this objective in mind, the 24 countries that make up this forum have just met in Brasilia, with very encouraging results for friendship between Africa and South America. Brazil desires for itself what it desires for each and every other nation. We know that there can be no happiness and prosperity in the midst of strife and misfortune. Together with the family of nations, Brazil, which does not countenance any form of hegemony, seeks to move forward in a spirit of confidence toward the creation of a world order responsive to the aspirations for democracy, stability, disarmament and respect for the sovereignty of States and a world order committed to development. Let me say at the outset how pleased I am to see you, Sir, presiding over the General Assembly at this session. In addition to being a well-deserved tribute to you personally and to your country, your presidency is a distinct honour and privilege for Africa. Your task will definitely not be easy but we are confident that your wisdom and broad experience will help guide our Organization in discharging its leadership role in world affairs. I hasten to pledge to you my delegation’s full cooperation and active participation in the deliberations ahead. Let me take this opportunity to say how welcome the leadership provided by Ambassador Samuel Insanally was during the past session. We commend him for the clear vision and diligence with which he steered the work of the Organization. The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, equally deserves appreciation for having carried out his responsibilities with sagacity and serenity despite the complex and sensitive nature of the issues that have retained our attention this past year. It is also my distinct pleasure to associate myself with all those who have extended a hearty welcome to non-racial democratic South Africa within the fold of the Assembly. The end of apartheid in South Africa also underscores the end of colonialism on the African continent. However, there still remain a few areas where the process is not complete, but I firmly believe that it will not be long before we can boast of a totally free world. In this regard, I should like to say that, with respect to the question of the return of the Chagos Archipelago to the sovereignty of Mauritius, we have continued to pursue a positive dialogue with the United Kingdom and that some progress has been registered. The United Nations of today is perceived differently from what it was less than a decade ago. The fabric of international relations is undergoing profound transformation. There is now more latitude and scope for international cooperation and partnership than ever before and the United Nations is increasingly becoming the focal point for such cooperation on a number of fronts. The numerous activities in such fields as peace-keeping, preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, humanitarian relief, election monitoring and supervision undertaken by the Organization during the past few years indicate that its leadership and potential to play an active role on the international scene have been recognized. But we should all accept the obvious reality that the United Nations, despite its potential and goodwill, does not have the material capacity nor can it muster the financial resources to attend to every potential or actual crisis situation. While it has become evident that solutions to the present-day crises cannot but be evolved within the framework of international cooperation, such cooperation, however, is still lacking or, where it does exist, is but lukewarm in substance. That is why, despite the end of super-Power rivalry which, in theory, should have eased tensions the world over, conflicts and tensions have continued to flare up. Though the international community does mobilize itself, albeit with disastrous delay at times, to address such situations, peaceful solutions remain elusive. Is it because our agenda in addressing these problems is not always the same? Coming from a small island State where our priorities remain the economic progress of the country and the constant improvement of the quality of life of our citizens, I harbour the dream that we, leaders of the 6 international community, can still bequeath to future generations a world which thrives on peace. On the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization can we not pledge and dedicate ourselves to that goal and recommit our efforts to that end? It has, it seems, become fashionable to question whether the United Nations system is well adapted to the new changing situations that confront us and whether it is equipped to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. But we often forget that we are the United Nations. My delegation believes that the United Nations, given its universality, should inevitably continue to have a central and important role in the universal management of our society. But to be able to do this satisfactorily there is an urgent need not only to revitalize the Organization, streamlining its agenda, but also to overhaul its structures, bringing in more transparency in its internal operations and taking on board the aspirations of the developing countries which, after all, constitute the majority of our world. In this regard, my delegation welcomes the ongoing deliberations in the open-ended working group on the question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council. It is our hope that the wide spectrum of views expressed so far on this subject, though seemingly divergent, would eventually converge to become a consensual approach that would render the Council more transparent and democratic. The review of the membership of the Council should be such as to make it functionally effective and as widely representative of the membership of the United Nations. But it should also, I reiterate, be the product of as large a consensus as possible to preserve its credibility. In this context, while considering an increase in the permanent membership of the Council, one should not be biased in favour of the economic giants of this world alone. The developing countries have a legitimate right to be represented on the permanent slate of the Security Council, for our concerns are different from those of the industrialized and developed countries. The African and Latin American continents should imperatively have their share of the responsibility incumbent on the Council. We have no doubt that those called upon to represent these two continents as permanent members will have significant contributions to make in the interest of the world at large. While we do not favour too radical a reform, we believe that the decisions of the Council should be arrived at by consensus rather than through veto power. Such decisions would obviously be more easily acceptable to the international community. However, the present veto system should be maintained for some time to come. It is a fact that the United Nations has been playing a more active role in world affairs and has been assuming greater responsibilities in the fields of peace-keeping and mediation in conflicts in a number of countries. But the restructuring exercise needs to address other levels of our Organization as well, so as to embrace the development dimension of international relations. In this respect, one should not shy away from a possible review of the United Nations Charter itself, but the process, we believe, should be gradual and consensual. A strengthened and reformed United Nations should be able to contribute positively to the fulfilment of the vision of its founders. It is opportune here to remind ourselves of what, as far back as 1945, the then United States Secretary of State reported to President Truman on the result of the San Francisco Conference. He said: “The battle of peace has to be fought on two fronts. The first is the security front where victory spells freedom from fear. The second is the economic and social front where victory means freedom from want. Only victory on both fronts can assure the world of an enduring peace. No provisions that can be written into the Charter will enable the Security Council to make the world secure from war if men and women have no security in their homes and jobs.” Almost half a century later, we find an echo of the same sentiment when our Secretary-General states that “the development imperative is as much a priority for the United Nations as the imperative of peace. ... There can be no sustainable development without peace. There can also be no real peace without development.” We fully subscribe to those views and would go even further to say that international peace and security, as well as an equitable and conducive environment and the redress of the asymmetrical international financial and trading relations, are necessary prerequisites for the sustainable development of all countries in the world, especially the developing ones. In this respect, the plight of Africa is well known to the world community. The causes of its ills and of its weaknesses are well documented. While the disease has 7 been diagnosed, the cure is not yet in sight. Africa needs a new order with a clear vision of hope that will ensure its gradual integration into the international economic and trading systems. Its marginalization, deliberate or accidental, must be stopped and reversed. The issue of human rights continues to be the subject of varying perception. We believe that human rights are indivisible, and therefore we hold the view that a revised and reformed United Nations should concentrate equally, if not more, on economic, social and cultural rights by promoting international cooperation for development. May I be allowed here to quote the example of Mauritius? Since the last decade, the rapid strides we have been making in the economic field have been accompanied by consistent progress in the social and cultural fields, as well as in the strengthening of the democratic framework. Basic rights and freedoms, such as freedom of speech, of association and of movement, and the holding of general elections at regular intervals of five years with the free participation of political parties and individuals are an integral part of our culture. Our experience exemplifies the synthesis that is being achieved through economic development, which brings dignity to the population; social development, for the protection of the weaker sections of the population; and the strengthening of all democratic institutions, for the evolution of a harmonious society. The report by the Secretary-General entitled “An Agenda for Development” is therefore timely and will no doubt place the issue of development in its different aspects in a prominent place on the international agenda. The Secretary-General needs to be commended for this interesting report, which highlights the multidimensional nature of development. The report has been further enriched by the constructive proposals contained in the Ministerial Declaration of the Group of 77 adopted on 24 June 1994 in New York. I commend this Declaration as an important contribution by the developing world to the debate on the report. Let our world, both developing and developed, take advantage of the new environment. And let us commit ourselves to reducing poverty, hunger and illiteracy in the world; commit ourselves to ensuring a steady and increasing flow of financial resources, as well as transfer of technology, to the developing countries; and commit ourselves to comprehensively tackling the debt problem. Only through such commitments and shared responsibilities and action in an increasingly interdependent world will it be possible to stop the further marginalization of a large number of developing countries and help integrate them in a just and equitable international economic, financial and trading system. Next year will witness the establishment and setting up of the World Trade Organization, which is expected to contribute towards the development of an integrated, more viable and durable multilateral trading system. I take this opportunity to exhort the members of that organization to adopt positive measures so as to ensure that the developing countries, this time, secure a fair share in the expected growth of the world. Genuine fears have been voiced by a number of developing countries, especially small island States, that are vulnerable to natural disasters and suffer from the disadvantages of being far from their sources of supply of raw materials and foodstuffs and the markets for their export products. It is feared that the results of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) will adversely affect their trade, especially the trade preferences from which they benefit in the context of contractual agreements entered into with a group of developed countries, principally with the European Union. My own country stands to be affected both as an exporter and as a net food-importing country. We therefore appeal for steps to be taken, as provided for in the Final Act of the GATT Uruguay Round, to provide adequate compensation for any such loss. I should like here to stress the need for the preservation of the existing preferential trade regime of the Lomé Convention of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group and the European Economic Community. Any attempt to bring in new issues concerning the multilateral trading system, including the World Trade Organization, would not be appropriate at this juncture. In this regard, it would serve no useful purpose for the developed and the developing countries to adopt confrontational positions while dealing with such sensitive issues as the “social clause and the trade regime” and “trade and the environment”. My country for one will resist the inclusion of any clause that may appear as a disguised protectionist measure. However, I also believe taking as an example my own country, where worker’s rights are protected by the Constitution, that internationally recognized labour standards and norms and the legitimate rights of workers should be respected. This is important if man is to be at 8 the centre of development. The enjoyment of these rights, and the observance of labour standards, should be encouraged in all countries, without, of course, losing sight of their respective levels of socio-economic development, or the development needs and objectives of developing countries. I am happy to state, in that context, that my Government recently introduced legislation to ensure that workers participate in the management of enterprises and become shareholders in the sugar sector where they are employed. This is being done in the context of a new social order based on partnership, and it is meant to favour the democratization of the economy. This leads me to the forthcoming World Summit for Social Development, the Fourth World Conference on Women and the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), to be held next year. In our view, all these conferences are geared towards one simple goal: to better the lot of mankind, and in so doing, to enhance human dignity. It is our sincere and cherished hope that these summit meetings and conferences will contribute to the debate on the Agenda for Development and will encourage a better understanding of the nature and complexity of the development problems facing the developing world. May these conferences come up with reasonable and concrete proposals, backed by a clear commitment of resources for their implementation. It is true that the end of the cold war and the disappearance of ideological conflicts have significantly altered the geopolitical configuration of the world. They have modified the nature of international relations, with strategic economic alliances replacing military ones in a world still in search of a new order — which thus far has remained elusive. In such an uncertain and volatile situation, where the survival of the fittest and of the most competitive is the order of the day, small and economically vulnerable countries need assurances with regard to their security and continued economic development and social progress. In this respect, renewed attention is being given, in different parts of the world, to regional cooperation and integration. We believe that the salvation of small and weak economies depends on the successful implementation of regional cooperation and integration programmes. We view regionalism as an important complement to multilateralism, especially when open regionalism does not lead to exclusiveness. I therefore appeal to the international community to fully support the successful implementation of regional cooperation and integration programmes, especially the nascent ones in Africa. In our own region, organizations such as the Indian Ocean Commission, the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States and the Southern African Development Community are useful vehicles for economic cooperation and integration among member countries and help to strengthen our economies. Political stability, good governance, respect for basic human rights and freedoms are prerequisites to economic development. It is therefore the duty of the international community to ensure movement in that direction. We have, however, failed by not responding quickly enough to the agony of Rwanda, and, as the Secretary-General has stated, we have acquiesced in the continued loss of lives. The serious plight of hundreds of thousands of refugees from Rwanda remains a major source of concern. We should redouble efforts and commit ourselves to urgently addressing such human catastrophes of epic proportions, which, if left unattended or if tackled timidly, may very well spill over into neighbouring countries of the region and affect them adversely. I had the opportunity to state my country’s position on this issue at the recent Organization of African Unity (OAU) Summit in Tunis, where I warned that Burundi was sitting on a powder keg that risked explosion unless the international community acted in earnest to contain the problem. Though the situation has eased to a certain extent, due mainly to Operation Turquoise and to the commitment of troops from OAU member States, the region still remains fragile. Countries which have the resources must come to the fore and fully assume their responsibility to prevent a recurrence of this tragic episode. My country, for its part, besides its interventions in international forums and its modest contributions in cash and in kind, played host to the dialogue between the President of Zaire and the President of Rwanda, which culminated in the signature of an accord with respect, mainly, to the refugee situation. I should like to use the opportunity of speaking before this forum to appeal to my brothers in Angola, Liberia and Somalia and elsewhere in Africa, where pockets of tension exist that can flare up into unnecessary conflicts, to apply peaceful means to resolve and iron out their differences. 9 It would be fitting here to flag Mozambique as an example where dialogue has prevailed over armed struggle, and where, in a few days’ time, the people will be exercising their freedom of choice to elect those they wish to govern the country. Similarly, it is a matter of satisfaction that the constitutional problem in Lesotho has been resolved peacefully and through constant dialogue. In that respect, I should like to commend the efforts deployed by my brothers, Presidents Mugabe, Masire and Mandela. I wish the same fervour could be demonstrated by others who are active in the Bosnia and Herzegovina conflict, where countless lives continue to be lost, where human suffering has crossed the limits of endurance, where the population seems to have resigned itself to a fate imposed upon it by the warring factions. Are we not responsible enough, human enough, to resolve the problems besetting that region, the more so as conflicts like those which have plagued Northern Ireland and the Middle East over decades, and which appeared unsolvable, are being addressed resolutely, and with positive results? Indeed, the positive developments in the Middle East mark a turning point in the inter-State relationships in that region and augur well for peace and stability. It is my fervent wish that the spirit of moderation and compromise that has made it possible for positive results to be achieved in the ongoing negotiations will continue to prevail and helps open other avenues for peace to be restored in the entire region. Let us, leaders of the world, on the eve of the fiftieth year of our Organization’s existence, take inspiration from the positive trends that have emerged in the Middle East, from the successful transition in South Africa as a result of peaceful negotiations, and commit ourselves to resolving conflictual situations — historical as well as current — through dialogue. In this regard, let me make an earnest appeal to Pakistan and to India, countries equally dear and near to us, not to internationalize their differences but to address them bilaterally through peaceful means. We should like to encourage both Governments to resume their dialogue in a spirit of trust and compromise, in the higher interests of their countries and peoples, and indeed in the interest of the entire region. I am gratified to learn that in Sri Lanka, following the installation of the new Government, a dialogue has been initiated between the parties in conflict. This is indeed a commendable move. Such positive efforts can only be beneficial to the international community, for the peace dividends that will thus ensue will permit the world to tackle, with undivided attention, the agenda of economic and social development, in order to make the world a safer place in which to live. That is why we continue to hope for speedy positive developments in such places as Fiji, where equality of citizenship is yet to prevail. Another issue that remains a major preoccupation of my country is the question of disarmament. Next year, the Conference to review the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) will take place. Mauritius has made its position amply clear on this issue. Any extension of the NPT should be linked to progress on nuclear disarmament and the achievement of a comprehensive test-ban treaty, as well as the establishment of a negotiating framework within which the discriminatory nature of the Treaty should be examined. We have stated in no uncertain terms that the world cannot be divided permanently into countries permitted to have nuclear weapons and countries not permitted to have them. A treaty perceived as making such a decision permanent is bound to fail and cannot be expected to last. Without the convincing support of the NPT members, we may fail in our endeavours to make the world nuclear-weapon-free. The recent dispute between a Member State of the Treaty and the International Atomic Energy Agency clearly indicates that the NPT is not infallible. Equally alarming is the trading in enriched uranium and plutonium, in stark contradiction of the objectives of the Treaty. As long as there are nuclear- weapon States, there will be an urge for other States with nuclear potential to acquire such weapon-grade material, thus putting the world community in jeopardy. Mauritius would like at this point to welcome the efforts for the conclusion of a treaty to make all of Africa, a nuclear-weapon-free zone. It is our earnest hope that the exclusive club of nuclear-haves, principally the permanent members of the Security Council, will do everything to permit the emergence of such a zone and the conclusion of the treaty. 10 (spoke in French) As Acting President of the Conference of Heads of State or Government of French-speaking countries, I should like to say a few words in the French language, which brings together this community of dialogue and cooperation numbering 47 countries with more than 400 million inhabitants. Since 1986, the highest officials of these countries, which are found on the five continents, have been regularly holding summit meetings to review those problems that affect the francophone world and seek together for solutions to global problems. My country thus had the honour of hosting the Fifth Summit of the Francophone World last October. It may seem surprising to some that a country member of the Commonwealth whose official language is English should have been selected to host such a Summit and thus to become the spokesman of the francophone group for a two- year period. In fact, for us Mauritians, this is in no way unusual, since we live with our cultural and linguistic diversity in perfect harmony. Indeed, Mauritian culture is the result of a synthesis worked out through history. We live in a society that integrates the linguistic, religious and social contributions of Europe, Africa and Asia. The theme of “Unity in Diversity”, which inspired the work of that Summit, is very dear to our country. All the segments of the Mauritian nation participate in creating a national identity while preserving their ancestral cultures. This message of unity in diversity, based on the recognition of difference and on human solidarity, is even more relevant in the difficult and complex situation in today’s world. The Heads of State or Government wish the francophone world to cooperate more closely with regional and international organizations that are working for democracy, peace and the development of the world — first and foremost, of course, is the United Nations. We have adopted a series of resolutions to promote this new partnership. It is, moreover, in this context that we had the pleasure of welcoming the Secretary-General of the United Nations, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to Mauritius. During the Summit, we were able to intensify a dialogue that we have been maintaining since then by various means. However, we hardly had time to acquire the means to implement our own resolutions when events began to move rapidly in the francophone world. Indeed, on the day following the Mauritius Summit, our brother Melchoir Ndadaye, President of Burundi, was brutally assassinated. The Organization of African Unity and the United Nations were immediately notified. Then the situation deteriorated in Rwanda, and once again we notified these two international forums. Given the lack of action during the first few days, we welcomed France’s intervention for strictly humanitarian purposes, which allowed numerous lives to be saved. In addition to their concern regarding the Great Lakes region, the countries of the francophone world are deeply moved about the situation in Haiti. We have been following developments in that country very closely, and we were gratified to note that positive steps have been taken towards re-establishing democracy. We are awaiting with great impatience, and in the interest of the Haitian people, the return of legitimate power to this country, a country that has suffered so much in the course of its recent history. The francophone world, for its part, has adopted numerous resolutions aimed at securing for the Francophone community a more dynamic presence internationally. It will thus be able to make a contribution in the specific fields of its competence. I should like, in particular, to cite a resolution endorsing the Secretary-General’s report, which is rightly entitled “An Agenda for Development”. This resolution spells out those themes which the francophone world would like to see taken into consideration in the agenda and which will be put forward by our representatives within the United Nations during the preparatory stages. At the Rio de Janeiro Summit, later in Vienna, then in Barbados and in Cairo, and tomorrow in Copenhagen and in Beijing, the countries of the francophone world are consulting on the major problems the United Nations has inscribed on its agenda. This is being done to arrive at common positions for meeting the great challenges of development. Such concerted action is essential for the harmonious development of our world at the dawn of the third millennium; hence we are called upon to make a specific contribution to illustrate that spirit of humanism that motivates the francophone world. The Mauritius Summit succeeded in situating the francophone world in a more political and more diplomatic context. The francophone world has an original and positive message to spread through the world, a message of liberty, solidarity and sharing. I am most pleased to have conveyed it to you. On behalf of the Kazakhstan delegation, first of all, I should like to congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his election to the office of President of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly and express our confidence that his competence and experience will contribute to the fruitful work of the session. I should also like to thank his predecessor, Ambassador Insanally, for the able stewardship, efficiency and tact he demonstrated during the forty-eighth session. May I also express our special gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts to consolidate peace and stability and to strengthen the role of the United Nations in the life of the international community. 19 Our world, multifaceted and contradictory, is rapidly approaching the end of the second millennium. I hope that the confrontation by force which existed throughout the decades of the cold war and its underlying concept that history is an evolving process of struggle between the competing systems are now definitely a part of the past. The end of the bipolar era triggered the release of enormous political energy, which earlier had been directed towards ideological competition. Today, the world is searching for new institutional structures, non- confrontational approaches to the solution of global problems and a more efficient utilization of human, material and technical resources. Looking into the future, full of hope, we should not rule out the possibility of meeting new challenges. Indeed, a common set of global problems that existed before has been replaced by numerous other problems no less complex or immense. In our opinion, the United Nations has never experienced such an important period in its nearly half century-old history. The beginning of the 1990s and the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization can and should become a truly historic milestone that will determine the new tasks of the United Nations and considerably strengthen its role in the life of the succeeding generations. Each important turning-point in the history of this century has manifested itself in social and political changes in the life of States. Today the transition from one era of international life to another is related to the disintegration of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), the revolutionary transformations in the countries of Eastern Europe and the entry into the family of nations of a number of newly independent States, among them my native Kazakhstan. For us, three years of freedom have been three years of achieving real political and economic independence. The Republic, having become a Member of the United Nations and other international organizations, having signed the Helsinki Final Act, the Charter of Paris and a number of other international instruments, has de jure completed its entry into the world community. From the very first day, our country has striven to ensure the actual implementation of its commitments to deal with common global issues, such as respect for human rights, the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law, economic freedom and social justice, the development of a market economy and the strengthening of international security. Kazakhstan accords priority to the issue of the non- proliferation of nuclear weapons. In December 1993, the Parliament of our Republic ratified the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) as a non- nuclear State. At the coming 1995 NPT Review Conference, we intend to join the position of those States that favour an unconditional extension of the NPT for an unlimited period of time. From this rostrum I declare that the Republic of Kazakhstan, deeply committed to the strengthening of its national sovereignty and security and the process of political and economic reforms in society, is genuinely interested in international stability and the development of cooperation with all States. That is our consistent policy, not subject to any changes dictated by short-term experience. I should like to emphasize in particular that we intend to achieve our objectives while taking existing realities into account and effectively using the geopolitical location of Kazakhstan as a kind of link between Europe and Asia, between East and West. In this context, we think that the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan, Mr. N.A. Nazarbaev, to convene a Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, put forward for the first time from this rostrum two years ago at the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, has a special significance. Its purpose is to develop fundamental principles and areas of cooperation in the context of strengthening peace and stability and promoting the economic prosperity of Asian States. Today the idea of this Conference is being put into practice. Thus, representatives of more than 20 countries of the region, as well as representatives of the United Nations, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) and the League of Arab States took part in the two meetings of experts convened by Kazakhstan in Almaty last year to discuss this initiative. As a follow-up to the Almaty meetings on this Conference, the Permanent Representatives of 25 United Nations Member States, as well as the Special Representative of the Secretary-General and representatives of a number of international organizations, met twice in New York. A third meeting at the level of senior officials is to be held in Almaty at the end of October. Confidence in the possibility of the step-by-step establishment of this new international structure is confirmed by the fact that the creation in Asia of different political and economic unions, associations and groups, 20 closely interrelated and influencing one another, is dependent on a common interest in the strengthening of peace and stability, without which the economic prosperity of Asian countries is impossible. The deep-rooted processes of economic integration on the Asian continent should logically and inevitably lead to the formation of an Asian common market, on the one hand, and political coordination and integration, on the other. Therefore, we think that the political will of the States of the region towards the purposeful and careful management of these processes should speed up the creation of global economic and political structures, similar to those in Europe. This confidence has prompted the President of our country to put forward a new proposal to establish the Euro-Asian Union (EAU) as a catalyst of integration processes and as an instrument for the prevention of conflicts in the post-Soviet era. The opportunities to overcome the economic and social crisis, and inter-ethnic and inter-State conflicts, and to ensure external and internal security and stability through the proposed mechanism of unification have been received with understanding by politicians and leaders of different States. Since the creation of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), stability and security as the basis of economic and social reforms have come to the forefront. As for economic aspects, they are in fact a dominant part of the EAU integration processes. The first step is the creation of a common economic space by the Central Asian States — Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan — supported by the appropriate agreements. Appropriate inter-State bodies, such as the Central Asian Bank, have already begun to function. The proposed union is open to all States. During the transition period, the proposed EAU most adequately reflects the interests of the States of the region, regardless of their size, population, economic and other indicators. It provides an opportunity to demonstrate their willingness to cooperate on an equal basis, as well as their commitment to reforms in the interests of all the nations of the region. In putting forward these initiatives, Kazakhstan assumes that the problems they seek to resolve are pressing for all countries of the world, and for such an authoritative Organization as the United Nations. Our certainty is also strengthened by the fact that the Kazakhstan initiatives are harmonious with the principles of the United Nations Charter and with key provisions of the broadly supported report of the Secretary-General “An Agenda for Peace”, and particularly with his idea of the need to strengthen preventive diplomacy and the peacemaking activities of the United Nations and deepening cooperation in these areas between the United Nations and regional organizations. The foreign-policy approaches of Kazakhstan were the basis for our decision to join the “Partnership for Peace” programme of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Kazakhstan, as a member of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), strives to implement its foreign policy initiatives in practical terms and, accordingly, takes into account and respects the legal rights and interests of other CIS States. The true interests of the multi-ethnic population of Kazakhstan lie not only in the maintenance but also in the expansion of common economic, political, military and strategic partnership and interaction within the CIS. Our Republic maintains special relations with the Russian Federation, all the Republics of Central Asia — Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and other CIS States. Certainly, the most important direction for Central Asian interaction is our common interest in strengthening peace, stability and security, both in regional and global dimensions. In a situation threatening peace in the region or on the Euro-Asian continent, Kazakhstan, together with the countries of Central Asia and Russia, is ready to put into operation an established machinery of joint consultations aimed at coordinating its positions and undertaking measures for the elimination of the threat. A vivid example of this is our joint endeavours to settle the situation on the Tajik-Afghan border. Thus, at the meeting of the Presidents, Prime Ministers and Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan held at Almaty last July the situation on the Tajik-Afghan border was discussed and a joint statement was adopted. Guided by the need to maintain peace and ensure a favourable environment for successful economic and political reforms and greater independence of their countries, the Foreign Ministers of the three States appealed to the conflicting parties to stop hostile activities and settle existing problems by political means through negotiations. The participants in the meeting pointed to a close interrelation between the stabilization of the situation on the Tajik-Afghan border and internal political developments in Tajikistan, and they supported efforts to deepen the inter-Tajik dialogue and the active role of the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. 21 Kazakhstan’s efforts towards integration at the regional and interregional level need the support of international organizations and the leading countries of the world. The prerequisites for such support exist and are being created. They include commitments on a bilateral and multilateral basis and the resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly on assistance to countries with economies in transition, as well as our participation in cooperation with the CSCE based on one of the components of the concept of global security, namely, the economic dimension. Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the expansion of United Nations activities in social and economic fields and supports vital initiatives relating to reforms in this area that are being undertaken within the United Nations and, in particular, in the Economic and Social Council. The report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations “An Agenda for Development” is to play the key role in these issues. We support the fundamental ideas of the report, and we believe that the discussion of this document at the current session of the General Assembly should be marked by our common aspiration to increase the efficiency of United Nations activities in the social and economic fields to ensure proper coordination of efforts of the related United Nations agencies and to set new priorities in accordance with today’s global, political and socio- economic realities. The main purpose of these endeavours, we believe, should be to preserve and develop the spirit of global partnership born at Rio two years ago and to ensure the environmentally safe, sustainable development of the whole world. As a young State endeavouring to resolve difficult tasks of socio-economic and democratic reform and to ensure its efficient participation in the international division of labour, Kazakhstan welcomes United Nations efforts with regard to the integration of countries with economies in transition into the world economy and promotion of their access to world markets, particularly through assistance to the newly independent land-locked States of Central Asia, of which Kazakhstan is the largest. We view this as a manifestation of the comprehensive approach by the United Nations in the field of socio-economic policy and deem it to be the most productive way to meet the challenges of global sustainable social and economic development. In this connection I should also like to indicate the high value Kazakhstan places on its cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Union, the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development and other international organizations through their programmes of technical assistance. At the same time, we would like to see this cooperation acquire more dynamism and practical efficiency, which would create a favourable climate for market reforms in Kazakhstan and other countries with economies in transition and for their better access to world markets and the flow of foreign investments to these countries. In this context it is a matter of concern to us that, according to some forecasts, the gap in the levels of factual and required assistance will sharply increase when unemployment in the States of the former Soviet Union peaks. This is expected as a consequence of the closure of unprofitable State enterprises. Against that background, the current level of Western assistance to our market reforms will not be enough to make progress towards the implementation of a second “Marshall Plan”. Another priority of socio-economic development in our country is its activity in the field of environment. It is no accident that Kazakhstan has singled out environmental issues, since it is itself exposed to such environmental disasters of a global and regional nature as the Aral Sea crisis, the degradation of a vast area around the Semipalatinsk nuclear-test grounds, the severe deterioration of the Caspian Sea ecosystem and the dangerous increase of its water level, which threaten the life and economic activity in a large coastal area. All these things seriously hamper the process of social and economic reform in Kazakhstan. A great contribution to the solution of the Aral problem is being made by the International Fund for the Salvation of the Aral Sea, headed by Mr. Nazarbaev, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Central Asian Inter-State Council on the Aral Sea has been established, and a programme of action for the coming three to five years has been elaborated to improve the environmental conditions of the Aral Sea. However, the States of the region have very limited financial and technical resources. In this regard, I should like to appeal again to the world community, the donor countries and the specialized international agencies to join their efforts to fight this truly global, environmental disaster in the Aral Sea. In this connection, Kazakhstan proposes to hold in Almaty or in the city of Aralsk a special international conference on the Aral Sea problem under the auspices of the United Nations, and to consider the possibility of establishing a special structure within the United Nations system to deal with this problem. 22 When we speak about the balanced and sustainable development of society we cannot leave out the issue of human rights. If an individual is poor and deprived of the elementary means of life, his political rights are meaningless. A comprehensive approach to this problem was demonstrated by the World Conference on Human Rights at Vienna in 1993, which analysed and reviewed the overall activities of the United Nations in the field of human rights. Pursuant to the recommendations of the World Conference on Human Rights, the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-eighth session called for the establishment of the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. On behalf of the Government of Kazakhstan, let me congratulate Mr. J. Ayala Lasso on his election to this high and responsible post and assure the world community that my country will fully abide by the recommendations of the World Conference on Human Rights and support United Nations activities in the field of the international protection of human rights. With regard to social and economic issues, I should like to highlight the recently concluded Cairo International Conference on Population and Development. Kazakhstan took an active part in that Conference and believes that its outcome will be yet another practical contribution to United Nations efforts to ensure global sustainable development. In this connection, we also expect significant results from such major forthcoming international forums as the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen, the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing and the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) in Istanbul. Kazakhstan supports the joint endeavours of Member States to reform the principal organs of the United Nations, especially the Security Council. Guided by Article 24 of the United Nations Charter, which states that the Security Council, in carrying out its duties under its primary responsibility, acts on behalf of all Member States, Kazakhstan favours the enlargement of the Security Council to ensure equitable geographical representation and the effective and efficient functioning and transparency of the Security Council. For many years now we have been witnessing a significant deterioration of the financial situation of the United Nations. Without going into the details of this difficult issue, I should like to note that the current session of the General Assembly is not an ordinary one, because it will have to adopt a new scale of assessments for the apportionment of United Nations expenses for the period 1995-1997. As a cornerstone of the whole financial system of the United Nations, the scale of assessments has always been among the most important aspects of the functioning of the Organization. The adoption of the new scale of assessments this year is also important in that the new arrangement will fully reflect the considerable increase in the membership of the United Nations and solve to the greatest possible extent problems related to the contributions of a group of new Member States. Since the creation of this problem Kazakhstan has demonstrated realism and a balanced approach and has tried to take into consideration the interests of other Member States. We hope that the principle of the capacity to pay and of the need to improve the methodology of the scale by eliminating its most distorting elements will be taken fully into account in the determination of the new scale of assessments. This would undoubtedly help to improve the Organization’s overall financial situation. With regard to the financial standing of the United Nations, I should like to refer to the question of improving administrative and financial management in the system. Kazakhstan has welcomed concrete steps in this field and supported the creation of the Office of Internal Oversight Services, and we deem it appropriate that such efforts be continued. Ten years ago, in this Organization, the former rector of the University for Peace, Mr. Robert Muller, said the following very true words: “A jubilee is an occasion for reflection and not for celebration”. I believe that today, on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we are all adopting this very approach in evaluating the Organization’s past, present and future. In this context, I should like to note with gratitude the great efforts of the Preparatory Committee and the Secretariat in respect of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. They are making a concrete contribution to the commemoration of this forthcoming historic event. Kazakhstan too is preparing to commemorate the event in a fitting way. It has set up a national committee, 23 which is scheduled to arrange a variety of ceremonial events, as well as to issue collectors’ stamps and coins devoted to the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. The importance that Kazakhstan attaches to the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is reflected also in our initiative concerning the holding of a special session of the General Assembly within the framework of the event. In our view, this could be the occasion for a thorough, useful and interesting exchange of views on the most significant aspects of the activities of the United Nations and on it’s role. The forthcoming anniversary inevitably brings to mind another historic international date — the fiftieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War. Kazakhstan wholeheartedly supports the initiative to declare 1995 the international year of the commemoration of the victims of that war. In conclusion, I should like to express my firm belief that the United Nations will come to its anniversary revitalized and fully able to realize the rich potential embodied in the aspiration to peace and humanism that was enshrined in its Charter 50 years ago. I warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. You take office at an historic moment for the United Nations on the eve of its fiftieth anniversary. The past year has been one of progress and great hope for many peoples and States represented in this Assembly. In South Africa, the elections have given birth to a democratic, non-racial society which offers a model of tolerance and reconciliation for others on that tortured continent. In the Middle East, the establishment of a Palestinian administration in Gaza and Jericho paves the way for a comprehensive settlement in a region that several times in living memory has threatened global confrontation. In Germany and in the Baltic States, the withdrawal of foreign troops marks the end of the division of our continent and heralds a Europe free and at peace. And on my own island - the island of Ireland - the declaration by the Irish Republican Army (IRA) of a complete cessation of military operations has opened the prospect of a peaceful resolution which has not existed for a generation. 14 For many years it has been customary for Irish Foreign Ministers to report to this Assembly on developments in relation to the conflict in Northern Ireland. Too often they have spoken of killing and destruction, the failure of political initiatives and controversies on human rights. It seemed that the Northern Ireland conflict belonged to the category of truly intractable problems destined to outlive all change of circumstance and to defy all attempts at a solution. I begin my address this year on this question, because my message is now one of hope. The past 12 months have significantly enhanced the prospects for lasting peace and stability on the island of Ireland. It is true that the edifice of a solution still remains to be constructed, but I believe very solid foundations have now been laid. At the origin of the Northern Ireland conflict lies a difference of view as to whether the partition of Ireland earlier this century was or was not a denial of the right of the Irish people to self-determination. This difference was passionately and violently acted out by two communities in Northern Ireland, who were and remain deeply polarized by their division on fundamental constitutional issues. This conflict has been costly for all the people of Northern Ireland and for the British and Irish peoples generally. To deal with it is one of the most urgent and important tasks facing both Governments. Experience has shown that the ability of the two Governments to do so will be directly proportionate to the degree of agreement between us. It is in the inherited gaps between our positions that terrorism on both sides has taken root. For that reason, cooperation and agreement between the two Governments is vital for any solution. Last December, the Irish and British Governments published a Joint Declaration which significantly consolidated the common ground between us and offered all the parties to the conflict a compelling political alternative to the endless cycle of bloodshed and retribution. In the Joint Declaration, the British Government recognizes that it is for the people of Ireland alone, by agreement between the two parts respectively and without external impediment, to exercise their right of self-determination on the basis of consent, freely and concurrently given, North and South, to bring about a united Ireland if that is their wish. The Irish Government accepts that the right to self-determination of the people of Ireland as a whole must be achieved and exercised with, and subject to, the agreement and consent of a majority of the people of Northern Ireland. The Declaration seeks to deal with the issue of self-determination in a way which banishes the spectre of coercion. Instead, political consent is now clearly set as the necessary goal and touchstone for any stable arrangement in Ireland, whatever the framework. The Declaration makes clear that the British Government is not the enemy of the Irish nationalist tradition and that the Irish Government is not the enemy of the unionist tradition. A crucial aspect of the Declaration is the acknowledgement that future arrangements in Ireland are for decision and agreement between the Irish people themselves, North and South, and its formal commitment that the role of the British Government will be to promote such agreement. The Declaration thus marks a decisive break with any notion which has had such dark resonances in Irish history that arrangements in Ireland might be decided as a function of British rights over Ireland. This opens the way, in turn, for a new and more developed acknowledgement by the nationalist tradition of the unquestionable rights of the unionist community, derived from its position as a distinct tradition in Ireland. A considerable section of the Joint Declaration is devoted to this issue. At the end of August, following a protracted internal debate, the IRA decided in favour of a complete cessation of military operations. That decision has been confirmed by other statements in the interval. Much more important, it has been sustained on the ground. This is a development of very great significance. It is first and foremost welcome because it saves lives. Secondly, it opens the prospect of comprehensive negotiations, governed by democratic principles, taking place against a background of peace and embracing the entire spectrum of all those involved in the conflict. Such negotiations have the greatest potential for success. Moreover, their outcome is likely to be more authoritative than a less general agreement, which would have had to be enforced against a background of continuing violence and repression. We still await the end of the campaign of violence carried out by loyalist paramilitaries. I remain hopeful that they, in turn, will come to realize that their violence is repugnant to their own community as well as to others, and counterproductive to their cause. We hope that 15 responsible political leaders in the unionist community will make their voices strongly heard on this issue, as many have done already, and that a complete cessation of violence will ensue on the loyalist side also. We have now an unparalleled opportunity to create the basis for lasting agreement among our different political traditions in Ireland. We can do so, no longer prisoners of the past, but rather learning form our past mistakes on all sides. Perhaps the greatest such mistake, shared at one time as an unquestioned assumption on both sides, was that this conflict, concentrated in the narrow ground of Northern Ireland, could only end in victory and defeat for one tradition or the other. Compromise was seen as the first step on the road to defeat. We have all learned, through a costly process of trial and error, that in the Northern Ireland situation notions of victory and defeat are an illusion. Each community had the critical mass to thwart the other, but neither can prevail alone. General political consent is therefore a simple practical necessity, as well as an ideal. The challenge now for the British and Irish Governments is to seize on the momentum for peace. Together with all the political parties in Northern Ireland, we need to build new structures, reflecting the lessons of our experience and building on the principles of the Joint Declaration. Experience has taught us that a majority 'winner- takes-all' system is profoundly unsuited to a society such as Northern Ireland, where divisions are predominantly communal and unchanging - rather than social or economic, and therefore changeable. Let us apply that lesson, making agreement and consensus the kernel of all new arrangements. Northern Ireland is characterized by a profound lack of consensus on the constitutional issue of whether the legitimate frame of reference is Northern Ireland or the island as a whole. Let us anchor new arrangements in an Agreement acknowledging and reconciling the validity of both. The political division of Ireland has inhibited many of the constructive political, economic and social interactions which can contribute to the welfare of both parts of the island. Let us set that to rights in effective new structures between North and South. The choice of sovereignty has hitherto been a kind of symbolic shorthand for the victory or defeat of one community or the other. Let us divorce this notion as far as possible from all partisan or tribal connotations, and agree that the exercise of sovereignty, by whichever Government, will at all times, now and in the future, be qualified by scrupulously equal treatment of the two Northern communities and of their rights, identities and allegiances. New arrangements on these lines would, I believe, divest the conflict over sovereignty of much of its current confrontation and passion. Under new arrangements on these lines, buttressed and guaranteed by formal agreement between the two Governments, conflict over the choice of sovereignty might cease to become the destabilizing issue it now is. Instead, it might be handled under agreed political ground-rules, scrupulously even and fair to both aspirations, as a question of mutual persuasion and comparative benefit. Northern Ireland could become a place specially dedicated to the protection of the rights of both communities. Then, for the first time, both communities there could be truly themselves, and perhaps find common purpose in many areas where at present there is only division. The Irish Government will pursue progress towards a lasting accommodation on a number of different levels. We are establishing a Forum for Peace and Reconciliation, to enable all democratic parties in Ireland that are so minded to make recommendations on ways in which agreement and trust between the two traditions in Ireland can be promoted and established. This will not be a negotiating forum, although we are hopeful that its work will contribute positively to the climate in which negotiations take place, and that many of its recommendations can be translated into practice. Simultaneously, the Irish and British Governments are working on a joint framework document setting out their own views on where a balanced accommodation of the problem may be found. It is our hope that this document, which we will commend to the other parties, but cannot of course impose on them, will give fresh impetus to the process of comprehensive negotiation. The developments I have outlined have forged a unique opportunity to achieve a comprehensive, just and peaceful resolution of the Northern Ireland problem. It is vital that their potential should be realized through early negotiations and agreement on new political structures. A new beginning for all our relationships in Ireland is 16 within our reach if we have the collective courage and imagination to avail ourselves of the opportunity. The desire for a lasting peace and a political accommodation has never been stronger across the entire population of the island. If in many parts of the world the message is one of hope, we know that in other places old enmities and ethnic animosities have surfaced, with vicious and indeed deadly consequences. The conflicts in Somalia, in the former Yugoslavia, in Rwanda; the gross abuses of human rights in Haiti and East Timor; the suffering of millions who are denied their basic rights to food, water or shelter; these remind us that we cannot let up in the struggle to create a peaceful world and to uphold human dignity. A characteristic feature of many contemporary crises is that they are essentially conflicts within States, rather than between them. And this, I believe, is the central question facing the United Nations as it approaches its fiftieth anniversary: can the United Nations, which was born out of the greatest inter-State conflict the world has ever seen, and which is designed specifically to prevent and resolve such conflicts - can this Organization deal adequately with internal crises and civil strife? I know that there are some who argue that the United Nations has no place in such matters, that many internal conflicts are not amenable to outside intervention. I can understand such arguments and the cautious desire not to get involved in other people’s internal quarrels. But can we let a crisis such as that in the former Yugoslavia escalate to the point where it threatens a wider Balkan conflict? Can we stand aside while millions are slaughtered by their compatriots in Rwanda? By what calculus do we divine that death in civil strife counts less than death in inter-State warfare, that those threatened by their own countrymen are less deserving of our efforts than those who are threatened by their neighbours? I can find no moral justification for such distinctions. The appalling escalation of terror and violence in Rwanda demonstrates the truth of this. To the names that have come to be associated in recent years with human suffering - Sarajevo, Gorazde, Mogadishu, Baidoa - we can now add Goma, Bukavu and Ngara. The tragedy of Rwanda has gripped the hearts and minds of the Irish people. Today there are over 100 Irish aid workers in the area. More than 70 Irish public servants and military personnel are working with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the aid agencies. And our President, Mary Robinson, hopes shortly to visit Rwanda to show solidarity with the people of that troubled land and to emphasize the need for international action. In its response to the crises in Rwanda and Somalia, the international community has shown a generous willingness to help. Much human suffering has been alleviated. But we have not come near to achieving durable solutions. Nor are we any nearer to constructing a system to prevent similar horrors in the future. We must ask how the United Nations could have played a more active mediating role in Rwanda. Could it have prevented the outbreak of genocidal warfare when political unrest rapidly deteriorated into civil strife? Could it have responded more coherently when genocide was followed by a mass exodus? How can it now assist in the resolution of the conflict? I believe that unless we equip the United Nations to deal with these kinds of problems - the most characteristic and pressing of our time - the credibility and relevance of our Organization will increasingly be called into question. The roots of civil disorder and internal strife are often complex and deep - deeper and more complex, indeed, than the causes of inter-State war. Recent experience has shown that recourse to Chapter VII action alone is inadequate and that outside involvement, unless carefully prepared and sensitively executed, can add to, rather than diminish, the crisis. We must learn the lessons of this and realize that building a United Nations 17 capable of meeting the challenges of the new era will require coordinated action in many areas. I will mention seven points on which I believe there should be priority action: We must reform the Security Council to make it more representative of the United Nations greatly expanded membership and to reflect the great changes in international relations of the past 50 years. We must develop the Organization’s capacity for early warning and mediation and for timely intervention in disputes before they escalate out of control. We must enhance the United Nations peace-keeping capabilities to make them more flexible and responsive when crises erupt. We must develop the United Nations operational capacity in the area of human rights. In particular, we need a more developed system of human rights monitors. We must act to establish a permanent international criminal court. We must intensify our efforts to eliminate the root causes of many conflicts - inequality, social injustice, and poverty - by acting on the Secretary-General’s agenda for development. We must restrict the international flow of the instruments of war and oppression by adopting a code of conduct for conventional arms transfers. There is now widespread agreement on the need for the Security Council to be more representative and more responsive to the needs of the general membership of the United Nations. I believe that early decisions to increase the overall membership of the Council are needed, and that an increase in the permanent membership should reflect the changes in international life over the past 50 years. Our discussions have shown that concrete decisions will not be easy, but we must avoid getting bogged down in narrow considerations of optimal numbers and the competing claims of regional Powers. One way of handling this would be to build into our decision a commitment to review again the membership of the Security Council at a specific date in the future. In this way we could work for a result that reflects current geopolitical realities, that acknowledges that these realities can change over time and that recognizes that all Member States have the potential to contribute to international peace and security. Measures already taken to improve transparency are welcome, but more must be done to facilitate interaction between the Security Council and the general membership. And surely the time has also come when we can delete from the Charter references to enemies that no longer exist. The terrible crises in Rwanda and Somalia have shown that we need to look urgently and more closely at the role and capacity of the United Nations in preventing and defusing conflicts. And we need to consider ways of strengthening the capability of regional organizations to engage in conflict resolution. We must be prepared to avail ourselves in full of the functions bestowed by the Charter on the General Assembly, the Secretary-General and the Economic and Social Council, as well as on the Security Council. We must ensure that information on economic and social conditions likely to result in a threat to security or stability is brought quickly to the attention of the Organization, and in particular to the Security Council. We have the instrument for this in the Economic and Social Council. We should now act on the Secretary-General’s proposal that a reformed Economic and Social Council provide reports to the Security Council on those economic and social developments that may threaten peace and security. Beyond this, we must strengthen the United Nations capacity for mediation. The Security Council and the General Assembly, despite their undoubted authority under the Charter, are not always the most suitable instruments for the direct mediation of conflict. In practice, the Secretary-General has on many occasions appointed a representative to mediate in particular crises, often with considerable success. I believe that the time has come to put these arrangements on a more organized basis. This could be done by constituting a mediation body to which the Security Council or the Assembly could refer difficult issues. Acting in consultation with the Secretary-General, this body would be distinct from the International Court of Justice, in that it would have the role of political mediation rather than that of pronouncing a verdict in terms of international law. I believe that such a body, drawing on the pool of personnel skilled in mediation, backed by effective staff and properly resourced, could rapidly acquire an expertise 18 and authority that would significantly enhance the peacemaking capabilities of the United Nations. The United Nations is now conducting more peace- keeping operations and has more personnel in the field than at any time in its history. Ireland is participating in many of these operations and devotes a significant proportion of its defence forces, and of its defence expenditure, to United Nations peace-keeping. That is one reason why my Government is particularly concerned at the under-funding of peace-keeping operations and at the failure of certain Member States to pay their assessed contributions. But there is a deeper and more important reason. The Secretary-General has pointed to the difficulty in finding personnel for the many new demands on United Nations peace-keeping. Recent experience has shown that a Security Council mandate no longer ensures that an operation will soon take place. I can think of nothing more serious or more damaging than the failure of the Organization quickly to mount an operation at the outbreak of a crisis. The crisis itself escalates out of control, the credibility of the United Nations is called into question and the authority of the Security Council is undermined. We must act to ensure that operations are properly resourced, that troop contributors can take decisions on participation, secure in the knowledge that they will be adequately funded, and that there is greater consultation between the Council and troop contributions. The cost of peacekeeping will always be less than the cost of war. There could be no better way to mark the fiftieth anniversary than to address once and for all this most critical constraint on peacekeeping operations. As our understanding of civil strife develops, we are coming to see the vital role that action in the area of human rights can play in helping to prevent and resolve conflict. The value of integrating peace-keeping and human rights has proved its worth in Cambodia, in El Salvador and elsewhere, but our approach has been piecemeal and tentative. Even in Rwanda we still await an adequate deployment of human rights monitors. Resources will have to be found for this activity. For its part, Ireland intends to contribute to the voluntary fund for Rwanda established by the High Commissioner for Human Rights. There is a clear need to put in place an effective system of monitoring and adjudicating human rights violations. One important step would be to develop a standing team of human rights monitors reporting to the High Commissioner for Human Rights. This would make it easier to integrate human rights action into peace- keeping operations, and the mandate for peace-keeping operations could include a human rights dimension with clearly established reporting and verification procedures. In addition, we should move now on the establishment of a permanent international criminal court. The United Nations must demonstrate that it has the will to bring to justice those responsible for crimes against humanity, summary executions, torture, rape and mutilation. If we fail to do this, we will have failed to learn the lessons of Yugoslavia and Rwanda, and we will, of course, risk their repetition. Our efforts to deal with war and civil strife cannot ignore what the 'Agenda for Peace' has described as the root causes of conflict: economic despair, social injustice and political oppression. Maintaining the peace is impossible in an unequal world. Conversely, development is the most secure basis for peace. It can be no coincidence that Rwanda and Somalia are among the least developed countries of the world. Thus, when the Secretary-General himself tells us that development is in crisis, we are compelled to listen, and we are compelled to agree with him that an alternative to the United Nations in development simply does not exist. The truth is that the agenda for development and the 'Agenda for Peace' are complementary. They are different sides of the same coin, and we must make progress on both if we are to reach our common goals of peace and prosperity. What has been called a 'culture of development' must extend beyond the provision of financial assistance to embrace economic progress, the environment, social justice, democracy and good governance. At next year’s World Social Summit and at the Conference on Women we can build on the progress already made in the Conferences on Environment and on Population. The tragedy of war and civil strife underlines the need to address more seriously the question of disarmament. The easy availability of arms contributes, not just to the scale of the carnage and suffering in conflict, but to the outbreak of conflict itself. At the global level, the volume of trade in major conventional weapons has declined in recent years. But 19 in some regions large stockpiles have accumulated. In others the arms trade continues to grow. There is a need for States to exercise greater responsibility and restraint in their arms transfers. Already the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms has led to greater transparency. But I believe that we should now go further. That is why Ireland has proposed that the United Nations elaborate a code of conduct for conventional arms transfers which would set out common principles to be observed in this area. It is my hope that the General Assembly will now decide that work on such a code should be put in hand. The lives of millions of people have been put at risk and large areas rendered unsafe as a result of the indiscriminate use of land-mines. Since last year many Governments have introduced moratoriums on the export of anti-personnel mines. I welcome President Clinton’s call for an agreement to reduce the number and availability of these mines. I welcome also the very considerable progress made in the reduction of nuclear arsenals and towards a comprehensive test-ban treaty. The threat of nuclear conflict between the major Powers no longer overshadows our daily lives. But there is disturbing evidence that some States still want to acquire a nuclear-weapon capability. Their ability to do so is helped by the growth in the world’s stocks of fissile materials and in personnel with the requisite technological skills. Next year’s Conference to review and extend the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons provides an opportunity to address these issues. Ireland wants to see an indefinite extension of the Treaty. We want to see the principles on which the Treaty is founded maintained; the non-proliferation regime strengthened; all States becoming members; and progress made towards the complete elimination of nuclear weapons, as envisaged in the Treaty. The agenda for United Nations reform is formidable - for the Organization itself and for the States that make up this Assembly. But whatever the difficulties, reform is a vital and urgent necessity. I am convinced that unless we act in a broad and imaginative way, bringing together the political, peace-keeping, development and human-rights instruments of the United Nations, we will prove inadequate to the great contemporary challenges. We now have an opportunity such as has not existed for a generation. I urge all of us to grasp it. Allow me, Mr. President, to congratulate you on your election to such a responsible post. I am certain that you will be able to guide our debates with your well-known efficiency. These are years of change and transformation. In an amazingly short period of time we have moved from a bipolar world marked by strategic confrontation which seemed insurmountable to a world in which the hope of an international order of peace and harmony coexists with some uncertainties. There are still serious conflicts that require our full attention and that of the United Nations - the main institution the international community has for the solution of such conflicts. The international landscape is full of contrasts: there are encouraging signs of convergence alongside other signs that seem to point to the persistence of authoritarianism and extremism, which inevitably lead to violence. Torn as it is between hope and uncertainty, the world must face the challenge of finding the right answers. But we must keep in mind and never lose sight of the fact that we cannot aspire to a world at peace if we fail to establish a just international society. There can be no peace without justice and there can be no justice without the full assurance of freedom and human rights. There can be no peace or justice if there is discrimination. There can be no peace or justice where there is hunger. There can be no peace or justice where there are regimes that repress individual freedom. And there can be no peace or justice when terrorism continues to be protected by political, cultural and economic sponsors. 11 But, as I said at the outset, there are also some facets of reality that encourage us. One of the high notes of the past year was the successful conclusion of the institutional transition of the Republic of South Africa, magnificently embodied in the figures of President Mandela and the enlightened opposition leaders. The national unity agreements which made it possible for South Africa to be successfully integrated into the family of democratic nations demonstrate once again that the endeavour of nation- building must always be based on dialogue and understanding between major political forces. We have also witnessed with satisfaction and hope the continuation and the strengthening of the peace agreements between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. In Gaza and Jericho, after more than 30 years, the Palestinian people is once again determining its own future in its own land. The original agreements have been strengthened by those recently signed by Israel and Jordan, which unequivocally represent the definitive acceptance of the State of Israel by the whole of the international community. We hope that such a promising start will soon lead to similar agreements with other, indispensable actors in the region. As at all great moments in history, the solution to the violence and despair that lasted for so many years has not been a matter of chance. Involved here have been men, great statesmen, true leaders, who - without setting aside their own legitimate grievances - have decided courageously to do away with rancour and recrimination. These Israeli and Palestinian leaders have pointed the way to reconciliation founded on peace. But not all is brightness. The shadows of the Balkan tragedy linger, despite the tremendous efforts being made by the United Nations and regional groups to find a just and satisfactory peace. Argentina has contributed to this quest for solutions to the best of its ability, through the United Nations Protection Force. Since 1992 more than 4,000 Argentine soldiers have been dispatched to contribute, sometimes even with their lives, to fulfilling the resolutions of the Organization. In Africa, Rwanda has demanded the attention and gripped the hearts of all men and women of goodwill. Argentina has contributed by sending foodstuffs and medical supplies, and doctors and nurses from our country have joined in the efforts of thousands of international volunteers who, amid scenes of horror and destitution, remind us of the inner nobility of every human being. In Latin America, our region, to which we attach the greatest importance, the process of consolidating democracy has continued. Significant steps have been taken in terms of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and it is now possible, as in few regions of the world, to point to high levels of growth in an atmosphere of increasing economic stability. Our region, with its renewed democratic outlook, its respect for human rights, for peace and progressive but resolute integration, has in a few years become the centre of attraction for international investment. In this framework of increasing freedom that the region now demonstrates, I should like particularly to hail the historic process of elections in El Salvador, which has put behind it a long period of confrontation. With respect to the situation in Cuba, my Government would once again voice its conviction as to the need for democratization on a pluralistic basis as the only way to prevent the worsening of the crisis that exists there and to permit the country to be reintegrated fully into the Latin American community. In Haiti, the overall solution lies in compliance with Security Council resolution 940 (1994), which, within the system of collective security provided for in the Charter, authorizes multilateral action, a mechanism that is essentially different in nature from unilateral intervention, which we reject. I wish to take this opportunity to express thanks for the work done by Mr. Dante Caputo, the former Foreign Minister of my country, who, after completing important and intelligent work during his term as Representative of the Secretary-General for the question of Haiti, decided just a few days ago to resign that position. I believe in this regard that it is important to refer to one of the most disquieting challenges that threaten democracy: corruption. This phenomenon progressively erodes credibility and public trust in institutions and their leaders. The Argentine Government is committed to a relentless struggle against corruption, placing particular emphasis on eliminating excessive State control and a lack of transparency in State administration, a fertile ground for corruption. The problems that make up the international agenda must, in Argentina’s view, be solved by strengthening the 12 United Nations. We have constantly and firmly supported the work of the Security Council, which is at last on the way to regaining the role assigned to it by the Charter. The participation of Argentina in nine peace-keeping operations - the highest number for any Latin American country - in the form of troops, military observers and civilian police, is a concrete contribution that bears out the convictions that I have spoken of today. I wish to emphasize that in its participation in peace- keeping operations, the Argentine Republic is accompanied by 72 countries. I wish to pay tribute to them as well for assisting in achieving peace and justice in many, very diverse, regions of the world. We have also responded to the Secretary-General’s proposal that a system of stand-by forces be set up, and our response takes the form of a pledge of specialized personnel, transport and 1,500 troops. Another aspect of far-reaching importance in terms of the evolution of the United Nations itself is the question of equitable representation on the Security Council and an increase in the number of its members. Argentina attaches great importance to this issue and takes the view that the number of members on the Council has always corresponded to the geopolitical situation prevailing at a specific time and that efforts at reform should thus be designed to adapt the number to the current geopolitical situation. Combating the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is one of the indisputable pillars of international peace and security. With this in mind, Argentina has ratified the Treaty of Tlatelolco, while currently our Parliament is considering accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which should be extended for the sake of global security and stability. With respect to chemical weapons, we are taking the necessary steps to set up a national authority, and we hope to see international verification measures strengthened. At the same time, we firmly support the conclusion of the comprehensive test-ban treaty. In the past year, Argentina joined the systems controlling exports of high technology and equipment with possible military uses, enabling us to benefit from the transfer of technology. We are concerned at the persistence of the sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas. Although we have a satisfactory relationship with the United Kingdom on other bilateral questions, we cannot help but once again reaffirm before this world forum, as we do each year, our sovereign rights over those territories. Our claim this year has taken on special significance, since the Argentine people, through their representatives in the National Congress, reformed the supreme law of the country little more than a month ago, giving constitutional status to the question of the Malvinas Islands by including, in the new text of the constitution, a transitional clause which reaffirms our rights and states that in recovering those rights respect for international law and the way of life of the population of the Islands shall be paramount. Thus the entire spectrum of Argentine political opinion has given solemn embodiment to a claim which is more than ever central and permanent to our foreign policy. For this reason, and despite the fact that our two Governments have collaborated on certain aspects of the management of the living resources of the South Atlantic, we cannot but deplore the further recourse by the United Kingdom to unilateral jurisdictional measures in the area; these undermine the possibility of broadening existing agreements and of arriving at others. We trust that the United Kingdom shares with us the conviction that there is no real alternative to cooperation in the South Atlantic. With respect to fisheries, we have arrived at provisional agreements allowing for the rational exploitation of these resources and preventing predatory fishing. But repeated recourse to unilateral measures such as I have described jeopardizes the possibility of adding to or indeed maintaining these understandings. As far as oil is concerned, Argentina has once again put forward specific proposals for cooperation. Our initiatives on this matter are based on the recognized principle of international law prohibiting the unilateral exploitation of non-renewable resources, a dispute which has been acknowledged by the General Assembly. 13 As to the inhabitants of the islands, I wish to reaffirm before this Assembly our full readiness to establish direct and responsive links with them. It is clear to us that the problem of the Falkland Islands has an inevitable human dimension which is bound up with the way of life and the needs of the islanders. Argentina is ready to preserve the way of life and the particular characteristics, and in this context we are prepared to study all matters, from communications to the legal and financial systems, in order to find logical solutions acceptable to all. Dialogue with the islanders is an inseparable part of a rational, civilized solution to this problem. Once again, logic and reason are pointing inexorably towards cooperation and dialogue. The economic and social agenda is an indication of just how positive an event was the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT); it will make it possible to more effectively tackle problems of unemployment and the distribution of wealth. Argentina’s policy aims at securing the consensus of the countries of the Americas in order that we may declare the continent a zone free of subsidies and unfair practices with respect to agricultural products. The agreement on agriculture marks an important advancement, and Argentina thinks it is appropriate to take a further step by helping to eliminate distortions in international trade. Argentina’s concern for social problems is well known. Through measures to establish stability, to combat inflation and to ensure economic growth, we have taken an important step forward in our struggle against poverty. Turning to external matters, we have proposed the establishment of a volunteer corps to combat hunger and poverty, coordinating efforts under way in this field. President Clinton kindly referred to our initiative yesterday, and we particularly value his support. The issues related to the relationship between population and development, which a few weeks ago were absorbing world attention in Cairo, cannot be left out of this analysis. We believe in promoting fundamental values, such as the advancement of women, human rights, and sustainable economic development, but with respect to population policies we maintain that human life exists from the moment of conception until natural death, condemning any practice undermining this. Population policies should not aim to smother life, but to ensure the greatest access of all individuals to the benefits of development and the fair distribution of wealth. There are two scourges besetting the world at the end of the twentieth century: drug trafficking and terrorism. Both of these call for concerted action on the part of the international community, for they are not national but world-wide scourges. With respect to terrorism, I can speak with the twofold weight of conviction and pain - with conviction, because of our repudiation of terrorism as a means of political or religious expression, and with pain, because of the hundreds of Argentines who died as a result of the attack that destroyed a building belonging to the Jewish community in Buenos Aires in July. We are grateful for the solidarity extended to us and for the Security Council’s condemnation. We believe that concerted action is needed to tackle terrorism - terrorism which has erupted in New York, London and Panama as well as in Buenos Aires. It is vital for the United Nations to play a more active, leadership role, coordinating a global endeavour to effectively combat this scourge. We reiterate here our suggestion that the United Nations should be provided with a unit devoted to the question of international terrorism. United Nations action must enjoy the resolute support of all. It is iniquitous and unacceptable that there are Governments that encourage terrorism. Sovereignty must not be used as a shield for abetting terrorist organizations while the world looks on helplessly. If we Heads of State all worked in concert, we could put an end to this veritable scourge afflicting us all. The United Nations should also study multilateral mechanisms that, while respecting the immunities and privileges enshrined in the Vienna Convention, would prevent and punish the abuse of those immunities and privileges to support the actions of international terrorists. We cannot rule out the possibility that such immunities and privileges were abused in the attacks in Buenos Aires. In closing, I wish to address the need to strengthen the United Nations, in particular with respect to its 14 responsibilities in the area of international peace and security. This involves first resolving its pressing financial difficulties. The United Nations must also continue to study the possibility of changing the current structure of the Security Council. In the view of the Argentine Republic, any increase in the number of members should be prudent and moderate, so that the Council is guaranteed maximum possible operating efficiency. In addition, any expansion should avoid the creation of unjustifiable imbalances in the representation of the various regions of the world. The Argentine Republic believes that the principle of the sovereign equality of Member States must always be respected. Furthermore, none of the provisions of Article 23 of the Charter should be disregarded. For all these reasons, it would seem preferable to think in terms of a limited increase in the number of non-permanent members and, as far as possible, the elimination of restrictions on their re-election. We find ourselves on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization. Let us make the best use of the system of collective security and the mechanisms of economic and social cooperation provided by the Charter. I have no doubt that by doing so we shall have a much better world in the next 50 years, one worth living in for our children and our children’s children. Please allow me to begin by congratulating Mr. Amara-Essy, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Angola, on my own behalf and on behalf of my delegation, on his election to the presidency of this forty-ninth session of the United Nations General Assembly. We are fully convinced that his diplomatic experience and dedication to the noble ideals of our Organization will ensure the success of the Assembly’s proceedings at this session. I wish to assure him of my delegation’s full cooperation. I should also like to express our appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally, for his proven dedication and skill in conducting the activities of the Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I also wish to express the profound gratitude of the people and Government of the Republic of Angola to the Secretary-General for his skill, energy and tenacity, and for all his efforts in the search for solutions to the innumerable and serious problems afflicting the peoples of our planet. The history we are witnessing today clearly shows a flagrant betrayal of many peoples’ expectations of a better world following the end of the cold war. We had all hoped for, and anticipated, life in a better world of peace and prosperity. Instead, we are witnessing the proliferation of internal conflicts, with such tragic consequences, and we see no visible signs of any immediate satisfactory and lasting solutions, despite the efforts of this Organization. With the end of the cold war and ideological confrontation, the African continent has witnessed during the past five years a vast expansion of democracy, which has contributed to the revival of hope for the prosperity and well-being of the African peoples, still suffering the economic backwardness bequeathed by colonialism. However, Africa continues to be the continent most affected by the proliferation of war and political instability. It is sufficient to mention as examples the conflicts in Rwanda, Somalia, Liberia, Burundi and my own country. Similar problems are occurring in many other parts of the world, which indicates the need for an immediate intensification of efforts by the international community, and in particular for increased participation by the United Nations, to find a negotiated, just and acceptable formula to protect the legitimate interests of peoples. The United Nations must define universal guidelines to prevent the application of differing criteria to the solution of various conflicts. In other words, in order to maintain the credibility of our Organization, all crises and conflicts must be given fair and equal treatment. This underlines the urgent need to restructure United Nations procedures in order to make the existing mechanisms for the prevention and management of conflicts compatible with the realities of our time. With respect to human rights, the United Nations should continue to play an active role in order to prevent their continuing to be jeopardized. The recent establishment of the post of High Commissioner for human rights by the General Assembly was an important step forward in this sense. The Republic of Angola reaffirms that human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal, and that their promotion and protection should be ensured on the basis of equality, impartiality, objectivity and non-selectivity. The human rights issue cannot and should not be used as a political weapon or a pretext for interference in the internal affairs of States. Angola follows with interest and satisfaction the positive developments taking place in some regions of the world, where solutions are being found to conflicts that had seemed endless. In the Middle East, for example, the determination of the Palestinian people and the political courage of the present Government of Israel have contributed to the climate of reduced tension that led to the historic agreement, signed in Washington, for the autonomy of Gaza and Jericho - territories illegally occupied in the past. We appeal to the international community to make every effort to ensure strict compliance with the agreement, and success for it, by providing all possible help to the Palestinian people for the reconstruction and socio-economic development of the embryonic Palestinian State. 42 It would not be immoderate to once again hail the courage and determination demonstrated by President Yasser Arafat and by Mr. Shimon Peres. We encourage the Government of Israel to continue the contacts already initiated with the countries of the region with a view to achieving peace and harmony in the area. In southern Africa, we laud the courage and determination of the people of South Africa, which led to the fall of the inhuman and anachronistic apartheid regime. Today we rejoice to see the people of South Africa free at last. We again greet the new South Africa, led by President Mandela, this different South Africa, which emerged from a democratic election, whose results were accepted by all the political forces in the country. We warmly congratulate the new South African authorities and welcome them to our Organization. We also pay tribute to the peoples of southern Africa, who made so many sacrifices before toppling the dreadful apartheid regime. Angola, which was the main victim of innumerable attacks, suffering enormous loss of human life and destruction of social and economic infrastructures, because of the support we gave to the brotherly people of South Africa, has reason to ask here and now whether the resolutions of this Assembly and of the Security Council regarding compensation to my country will now be implemented. In Mozambique, we welcome and encourage the Government’s commitment to organize democratic elections, and we urge RENAMO and other political forces to respond with an equal commitment to the success of the process, leading to lasting peace in that country. However, the United Nations, in particular, and the international community, in general, have an important role to play in ensuring the attainment of the main objectives: peace, democracy and prosperity. In Liberia, we are encouraged by the positive developments and by the dialogue that is taking place between the parties involved. Angola encourages the continuation of such dialogue and urges the parties to truly commit themselves to the search for a lasting peace. With regard to Western Sahara, Angola urges the parties involved to apply the United Nations peace plan strictly and to adhere scrupulously to the mechanisms established for that purpose, which have the full support of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), and we encourage the parties to enter into direct dialogue to facilitate progress. In Rwanda, the easing of political and military upheavals notwithstanding, a precarious socio- humanitarian situation prevails. Angola expresses its solidarity with the brotherly people of Rwanda. We consider that the international community should continue to play an important role in solving the crisis in Rwanda and in maintaining the peace and tranquillity of its peoples. In Somalia, in spite of the commitment demonstrated by the international community, we do not foresee an end to the armed conflict in the near future, because of the lack of consensus between the parties involved. Angola considers that our Organization should continue to assume its responsibility in the maintenance of world peace and security, which are threatened in that part of Africa, and we appeal to the common sense of the parties to cooperate with the United Nations in the efforts to re-establish peace in that country. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, in spite of the enormous efforts by the international community to restore peace, profound differences still remain, and this contributes to the continuation of the conflict. We therefore urge the parties and the international community to continue their efforts to find a lasting solution that is acceptable to the parties involved. Finally, we salute the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for its efforts to that end. With regard to the Korean peninsula, Angola encourages the efforts towards reunification and salutes the positive signs registered in the dialogue between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America. Angola is following with concern the situation in East Timor. The international community has witnessed the serious and persistent violations of human-rights to which the suffering people of East Timor have been subjected. Angola considers that there is a fundamental problem to be resolved first. Here, I refer to decolonization and to respect for the rights of the peoples of this territory - mainly, their right to self-determination. We therefore urge the Government of Indonesia to recognize the legitimate right of the people of East Timor to self-determination and independence and to cooperate 43 with Portugal, as the administering Power, and with the United Nations towards fulfilment of the wishes of the Maubere people. The current situation in Cuba, following the tightening of the economic embargo, should be one of the main concerns at this session of the General Assembly, as its direct victims are the populations of island. The General Assembly’s adoption of resolutions 47/19 and 48/16 clearly demonstrates that the economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed against Cuba is contrary to the principles of international law and the Charter of the United Nations. For this reason, and in particular because of the extraterritorial application of that unilateral measure, Angola condemns it. As we add our voice to those of all who seek an end to the embargo imposed against Cuba we are convinced that only through dialogue - never by adopting drastic and inhuman measures such as I have mentioned - can disputes be resolved. We therefore encourage the continuance of dialogue between the two countries towards the resolution of their differences within the framework of the Charter of the United Nations. The international strategy for development for the years 1991-2000, which was adopted in December 1991, brought hope to the international community, which has regarded the effective implementation of this new strategy as the solution to the socio-economic problems of our planet. Today, three years having elapsed, a certain scepticism is shaking our initial convictions. The Republic of Angola considers that the role played by the international economic institutions - bodies such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the World Trade Organization and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade - is of vital importance. In the fight against trade barriers, these bodies create enormous opportunities for developing countries to participate in the development of the world market. The heavy and painful burden of external debt dating back to 1982 leads us to believe that the efforts of all are necessary if we are to find medium- and long-term solutions. Equally, special attention must be given to the issues of sustainable development. This necessarily implies implementation of the objectives of the Rio summit and the honouring of commitments assumed thereafter by the industrialized countries. The data included in the reports presented to the Cairo Conference on Population and Development demonstrate that the social situation throughout the world is assuming almost alarming proportions. The fact that the world’s population is now 5.5 billion and that the majority of these people live in absolute poverty convinces us of the urgent need to adopt, during the forthcoming World Summit for Social Development, a concerted plan of action calling for measures to counter the increasing deterioration in their social condition. We therefore reiterate our firm belief in the legitimacy of the goals set out in the document entitled 'African Common Position on Human and Social Development in Africa'. Having made a few comments on the main problems that affect all of us in one way or another, I should like to make a brief reference to the situation in my country. Representatives will probably recall that, following UNITA’s rejection of the results of the democratic elections in 1992, which the international community monitored and judged to have been free and fair, UNITA resorted to war, with the objective of taking power by force of arms, contrary to the spirit of the Bicesse Accord, of which this Organization is a signatory and which served as the basis for the electoral process. The situation created by the resumption of war rapidly degenerated into a real catastrophe, jeopardizing the country’s territorial integrity and forcing the legitimate government to take defensive measures to prevent the realization of UNITA’s intentions. In spite all the efforts of the Angolan Government and of the international community, and as a result of this war, imposed on the people of Angola by the militaristic wing of Mr. Savimbi’s UNITA, Angola faces a rather sombre future - one dangerously similar to those of the countries that I have already mentioned. The present situation in my country is characterized by the extreme poverty of the people, who, having fled the war zones in order to save their lives, have become refugees in their own land. In Angola there are currently 3.75 million displaced persons, more than 500,000 mutilated people and thousands of orphaned children and abandoned elderly folk. In addition, almost of the country’s all economic infrastructures have been destroyed. In some areas controlled by the Government, people and goods cannot always circulate freely, owing to mines and to the acts of 44 terrorism and banditry perpetrated by UNITA’s military wing. The difficult situation that I have just described must continue to command the attention of the international community if the people and the legitimate Government are to be helped to re-establish peace throughout the country. As those present in this Hall know, on 15 November last, following the failure of our attempts to establish a dialogue, from Namibia to Addis Ababa and Abidjan, the Government of Angola initiated the negotiations of Lusaka. These were mediated by the United Nations and were observed by Portugal, Russia and the United States of America, whose endeavour has contributed to the consensus in the negotiators’ position. It is important that we should once again express our sincere gratitude to the Government of His Excellency President Chiluba for his generosity and patience in receiving the Angolan people in his country and for his positive action, albeit discreet and unofficial. We also reiterate our appreciation of the important role played by the troika of observers - Portugal, Russia and the United States of America - and for the committed way in which the Secretary-General’s special representative, Mr. Allioune Beye, has conducted the negotiations in Lusaka. Mr. Beye’s knowledge of the Angolan situation is our guarantee of a rapid conclusion to the talks. The people of Angola and the international community expressed their satisfaction at the fact that UNITA has finally accepted the mediators’ package of proposals, for this constitutes an important step towards peace and national reconciliation. It is none the less true that UNITA accepted this package of proposals by the mediators only because of pressure from the international community and, first and foremost, from the Security Council through its numerous resolutions, in particular resolutions 864 (1993) and 932 (1994), which advocated the imposition of sanctions against UNITA if its leadership did not demonstrate good faith about the conclusion of an agreement; and, also because on the military front there had been a clear reversal of the situation. Today the Government already controls more than 75 per cent of the territory and 90 per cent of the population. We are convinced that if this pressure is maintained UNITA, which knows only the language of the force of weapons, might engage in a constructive and honest dialogue. In this context we once again urge the international community to continue exercising its various forms of pressure on UNITA’s militaristic wing so that an agreement is reached in Lusaka to put a definitive end to the war and to restore peace and harmony among the Angolan people. We are not aiming at a military victory. We want an agreement that can bring lasting peace and pave the way to national reconciliation. Our insistence on pressure is based on our desire that the relative progress made in Lusaka be irreversible, as it is only a step along the difficult path to peace and its consolidation, to the promotion of the country’s unity and national reconciliation, and to the defence of legality and democracy. Therefore, the international community, and the Security Council in particular, must be prepared to act immediately as soon as an agreement is reached in Lusaka in order to avoid any pretexts for non-compliance. There must not be a substantial interval between the signing of the agreement in Lusaka and the re-establishment of the cease-fire, on the one hand, and the beginning of the implementation of the Lusaka agreement, or understandings on the other; this will avoid violations. In this context it is necessary to anticipate the sending of the component of the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III) immediately after the signing of the agreement. Please allow me to reiterate before this Assembly that it is the firm commitment of the Government of the Republic of Angola not to spare any effort in the search for a negotiated solution to the crisis in Angola and that it is not our intention to destroy UNITA militarily. Contrary to information which has been circulated recently accusing the Government of launching a military offensive against UNITA, we have to say that the truth is completely different. The Government is engaged in stopping the UNITA military offensive, with the aim of halting the kind of events that occurred before the signing of the Bicesse Accords, in order to ensure that a military advantage not be obtained while the Lusaka Accord was being signed. We should not enable UNITA to obstruct the full implementation of the Accord. We want UNITA to become a political party, to be prepared to live in democracy and to respect the existing constitution, which is the result of a difficult national consensus which UNITA itself joined in and which it amended before it was approved by the Parliament. 45 Finally, we would like to send a strong appeal to the international community to increase humanitarian assistance to the needy people. The Government’s scarce resources are insufficient to meet the dramatic socio-humanitarian situation of the people being rescued from the captivity of UNITA. Members have had the opportunity to see on television the real situation in Kuito and elsewhere. The Government of Angola has always been committed to delivering humanitarian assistance to all the needy regardless of where they may be, and requests that pressure be exerted on UNITA not to hamper the efforts to distribute relief supplies to the population and the work of non-governmental organizations and United Nations agencies which with great sacrifice are involved in humanitarian assistance to Angola. I reiterate our best wishes for the success of this forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. My delegation congratulates you personally, Sir, as well as your country, Côte d’Ivoire, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your election is testimony to the role you and your country have played in international relations. We are confident that the United Nations will benefit from the term of your presidency. Allow me also to congratulate your predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, on his outstanding stewardship of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. His conduct of the many complex and vital issues before that session was indeed praiseworthy. Our tribute also goes to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his sterling leadership of our Organization during the past year, a year in which it has continued to face ever-increasing challenges. We are especially grateful to him for his continued efforts to further the objectives of the United Nations in Africa and elsewhere, and for his tireless drive to enhance the Organization’s role in maintaining international peace and security and addressing development issues. My delegation would like, at the outset, to welcome the delegation of South Africa in our midst. Its readmission into the community of nations signifies victory in its long and difficult struggle for justice and equality. For the African continent, it marks the closing chapter in the total decolonization of the continent; and for the United Nations, it concludes an extraordinary collective struggle against the policy of apartheid. In this context, I must add that the recent decision by the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency to redesignate South Africa as Africa’s representative on the Agency’s board was indeed appropriate and welcome. However, in welcoming South Africa back to our international Organization, we should also heed the words of President Nelson Mandela - uttered from this rostrum only a week ago - that his country needs massive financial and material aid to cope with the problem of the millions of poor and unemployed people in his country. While the triumph of democratic forces in South Africa is cause for celebration, the tragic situation in Angola continues to be a source of major concern to my delegation. We are gravely concerned at the continued conflict in that country. If the peace accord negotiated in Lusaka is not signed by the end of October, the Security Council should immediately impose economic sanctions on UNITA, as agreed in resolution 864 (1993). We cannot continue delaying and postponing action while waiting for a peace that does not come. However, if the peace accord is signed, the United Nations, for its part, should stand ready to deploy a greatly increased peace-keeping force to supervise the cease-fire. In Mozambique, despite delays in the implementation of the General Peace Agreement, we are hopeful that peace and stability will soon be realized. The forthcoming national elections, planned for 27 and 28 October, should produce results acceptable to all Mozambicans so that they can live in peace and harmony. The international community and the United Nations should continue to provide the material assistance that is needed to realize that peace in Mozambique. Members are aware of the crisis situation that had been developing in the Kingdom of Lesotho since the beginning of the year, which culminated in the attempted unseating of the democratically elected Government. We have just heard a statement by the Prime Minister of Lesotho himself, Mr. Mokhehle, describing to us the events that took place in his country. Consistent with the Organization of African Unity mechanism for the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts, the Southern African Development Community (SADC) charged Botswana, South Africa and Zimbabwe with undertaking a regional initiative to resolve the crisis in Lesotho. We are happy to report that this joint mediation has resulted in the restoration of constitutionality and constitutional Government in that country. Prime Minister Mokhehle has adequately described that situation, and I need add nothing more. In Rwanda, the horrendous acts of genocide we have witnessed will surely haunt every one of us for a long time to come, both those among us who had the means to act but did not do so and the many who, while desiring to help, lacked the means. We call for the strengthening of the United Nations presence under the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR), as an essential confidence-building measure to provide the displaced people of Rwanda with tangible assurances that they can safely return to their homes. A few days ago we heard a statement by the President of Rwanda, Mr. Pasteur Bizimungu, inviting an increase in the size of UNAMIR in order to achieve precisely what we are asking for: confidence-building. In both Rwanda and Burundi, the tensions are still too close to the surface for anyone’s comfort. In Somalia, the deterioration of the security situation and the resurgence of inter-clan fighting, banditry and lawlessness are still a source of great concern to my delegation. The people of Somalia should take full advantage of United Nations peace-keeping efforts and of the OAU mediation effort led by President Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia, and forge a political settlement based on sharing the power among the Somali nation as a whole. Zimbabwe has contributed two battalions to peace-keeping in Somalia. As we start gradually withdrawing those battalions, we hope they will not be called back to a Somalia where law and order have broken down again. We are glad that the Identification Commission of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO), has begun its work, and we urge both parties speedily to resolve any outstanding impediments to the holding of the referendum in that country - and we know from debates in this Hall that there have been many impediments. The quest for self-determination in Western Sahara has taken too long, and has remained on our international agenda for a long time. It should therefore not be delayed any further. My delegation also welcomes the recent major developments in the Middle East peace process which have brought the people of Palestine closer to their inalienable right to self-determination. While we fully support that peace process, we believe that it should proceed on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1975), and that the international community should continue to monitor developments in that region closely so as to generate and maintain the momentum for change. The people of Palestine still need and deserve our continued support until they reach the goal of nationhood in a Palestinian State with its capital in Jerusalem. We from the African region are particularly mindful of the inextricable link between peace, security and stability on the one hand and socio-economic development on the other. There can be no economic development without peace and stability. Central to these fundamental concerns about peace and stability are the basic issues of protecting human rights and democratic governance. We believe that high priority must be given to these issues in our national policies. Consequently, dictatorial and non-democratic regimes should be shunned and isolated by all of us and by the international community at large, as well as by regional organizations. The curtailment of people’s participation in decision-making processes undermines the capacity of countries to provide all their people with even the basic necessities of life including food, water and shelter and basic social services such as education and health. Zimbabwe believes that international efforts to promote peace, stability and security where these do not exist or are threatened can largely be facilitated through regional organizations and good neighbours. We in Africa have taken concrete measures in this regard by establishing a permanent mechanism of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) for the prevention, management and resolution of conflict. It is in keeping with the spirit of regional arrangements that the countries belonging to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) joined hands in addressing the situation in Liberia - work that still continues - and that we in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) took the initiative in Lesotho to which I have already referred. In our view, such arrangements could also be devised to address situations elsewhere in our continent, for example in Rwanda, Burundi and Somalia. What we are urging is the involvement of regional organizations, subregional organizations and neighbourly countries in conflict resolution and conflict management, because they know the problems and they know the issues. For such regional arrangements to become sustainable it is essential that other regional organizations and the United Nations extend a helping hand by 8 providing financial and other material assistance. For indeed, what are initially regarded as internal or local conflicts have the potential, if left unattended, to grow into trouble spots threatening international peace and security itself. This is an auspicious time for the family of nations to further the goal and achieve the objective that the founding fathers of our Organization had foremost in their minds: - that of disarmament. In this context, my delegation is of the view that the extension and review Conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) scheduled to be held in March 1995 is a unique opportunity for practical steps to be taken to ensure the total elimination of nuclear weapons. Clearly, the treaty itself is discriminatory and the nuclear-weapon States have not fully implemented their obligations under article VI of the Treaty. Several speakers today have referred to the inadequacies of the Treaty. We will not support any indefinite and unconditional extension of the NPT in its present form. The nuclear-weapon States must undertake to reduce and eliminate their nuclear arsenals within an established and binding timetable. As a demonstration of their good faith they must also stop impeding the early conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty. Only then will a nuclear non-proliferation regime be meaningful. Last year the Non-Aligned Movement submitted a draft resolution asking the Assembly to request an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice on the legality of the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons. This was in pursuance of a long-standing position of the Non-Aligned Movement favouring complete disarmament. Regrettably, that draft resolution was not brought to the vote. We are, however, glad that the Non-Aligned Movement has this year decided to submit the draft resolution once more, and to press it to the vote in the Assembly. This initiative is deserving of the strongest support of all members. In recent years nuclear disarmament has become a bilateral issue; yet the international community has a right to play a central role in ensuring that the nuclear threat, which affects all mankind, is removed forever. If the Assembly were to request an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice, nuclear disarmament would be brought back into the multilateral forum where it belongs, so critical issues related to nuclear proliferation and nuclear controls could be discussed openly and commented upon in the General Assembly. It would also be consistent with the Secretary- General’s recommendation on resort to International Court of Justice advisory opinions in his report entitled 'An Agenda for Peace' and would give impetus to the process of nuclear disarmament, which has begun to flag in the post-cold-war era. The Non-Aligned Movement is to be congratulated for having taken this initiative this year; we hope it will gain the support of the Assembly. We all agree that there have been so many changes on the international scene that the present Charter and methods of operation of the United Nations should be revised to meet the challenges and aspirations of a new and changing world order. In this regard, my delegation has already put forward some very specific proposals, which I will not recapitulate in any detail here. Those proposals are now part of the African common position paper which refers to the powers of the Security Council, the General Assembly and the relationship of those bodies to the Bretton Woods institutions and to the specialized agencies. This subject has been referred to by a number of speakers from this rostrum; indeed, the speakers from Africa have repeated the African common position. It is quite clear that the present arrangement, where Africa and the Latin American region are not represented at all amongst the veto-wielding permanent members of the Security Council, should not be allowed to continue. The underrepresentation of these two regions is both undemocratic and unfair, and I hope that the matter will be addressed at the appropriate time in terms of the African common position. Furthermore, any exercise in the revitalization of the United Nations should envisage coordination of the activities of the Bretton Woods institutions to which I have already referred. We are pleased that world-wide socio-economic problems of equitable utilization and distribution of resources are going to be fully addressed at the Far Social Development World Summit in Copenhagen next year. Several important conferences have recently been held within the framework of the United Nations: the Rio Conference on Environment and Development and the International Conference on Population and Development held in Cairo in Cairo. We are now looking forward to the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen next year, and the Fourth World Conference on Women, to take place in Beijing later next year. These conferences all address matters that are vital to the South and/or to the third-world countries as a whole, and we hope that the social development Summit 9 will focus on growing poverty in the world and how to attack it. The rapid development of science and technology is taking place in the middle of increasing poverty and disease amongst large population groups, especially in the third world. It is time we took enormous steps to eradicate world poverty and to create full employment. We hope that the combined efforts of the environment and population Conferences, to which I have already referred, and the social development Summit and the Beijing Conference will mobilize the international community for a final and sustained attack on world poverty. Zimbabwe believes that at the national level it is imperative that development put people first by promoting social development through employment-creation opportunities and other poverty- eradication programmes. In our view, the provision of adequate food, water and shelter as well as such basic social services as education, training and health is an absolute imperative. In the promotion of opportunities for increased popular participation, the enhancement of the role and status of women requires paramount attention.Employment creation requires greater private initiative and increased investment. Thus domestic policies have to be pursued with the aim of creating a favourable environment for investment. The critical economic situation in Africa - the least developed and most marginalized of all the regions of the world - has to be addressed if global economic growth and interdependence are to have any meaning at all. With 90 per cent of all poverty stricken people in developing countries, the eradication of poverty remains a major concern at both the national and the international levels. Yet neither the economic reform measures which we are carrying out nor our efforts to alleviate and eradicate poverty can be expected to succeed without the provision of adequate financial resources on a predictable, assured and continuous basis, and we appeal to those countries that have surplus resources to increase their support and aid to the developing countries. For most developing countries the issue of resource flows cannot be dissociated from that of the external debt problem, a problem that has also been addressed in many statements to the Assembly. Figures available clearly indicate that the overall debt of the developing countries is still on the increase - from some $800 billion in 1982 to $l.4 trillion in 1992 - and it continues to rise. Combined with the interest rates, the figures are constantly growing, indeed becoming staggering. We believe that new, comprehensive and coordinated approaches to the debt and debt- servicing problems have to be adopted, including outright cancellation or at least the application of the measures proposed under the Trinidad terms for low- income developing countries. Zimbabwe believes that the expansion of international trade is essential to economic growth and is indeed an integral part of development. We therefore consider the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations to be an important achievement which deserves to be welcomed by developing and developed countries alike. We also welcome the landmark agreement to create the new World Trade Organization, which we hope will reinforce the multilateral trading system. We welcome the meetings that have been arranged both in Africa and elsewhere to study the impact of the Uruguay Round agreement and the World Trade Organization on our economies. We reiterate the hope that these developments will improve the access of developing countries’ exports to markets in developed countries, and that the new conditionalities or new forms of protectionism under the guise of social or environmental clauses will be avoided. Particular attention has also to be paid to the critical need for the diversification of the African economies. In that regard, we once again reiterate the need for the international community to support our proposal for the creation of a diversification facility for the development of the African commodity sector. Finally we would urge the big Powers - and especially the United States - to adopt a policy of dialogue rather than confrontation in resolving disputes with smaller Powers around the globe. In particular, we would urge full-scale discussion and dialogue with Cuba aimed at normalizing relations with a small neighbouring country in the American region, dialogue with Libya in order to get a fair and just trial for those suspected of causing the Lockerbie air disaster, and the continuation of the meetings with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea in order to resolve the issues related to nuclear- weapons development and, hopefully, pave the way for the reunification or North and South Korea. With the end of the cold war, global peace - so much coveted -is now within our reach. A concerted effort by regional organizations and the international community can get us to the promised land of international peace. We should try and try again, but the attainment of peace is not the task of international organizations alone: it is also the task of national Governments and national leaders. 10 In this context we would like to appeal to the leaders in the Gulf to pursue the path of peace that has been charted for them by the United Nations in several resolutions, and to assure them that any attempt at occupying other countries in the Gulf, such as the one we witnessed in 1991, will not be accepted by the Assembly or by the international community as a whole. Please accept my most sincere congratulations, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Let me also thank the outgoing President, Ambassador Insanally, who displayed exceptional diplomatic skills in managing the business of the General Assembly this past year. I wish to welcome the delegation of South Africa, which has joined us after an absence of many years. We have been following developments in that country with particular attention and are delighted with the remarkable progress it has chalked up. The restoration of South Africa's full membership further augments the universality of the United Nations, which is something we all favour. The Czech Republic takes very seriously the responsibility it shares for the maintenance of international peace and security. This is reflected, on the one hand, in our participation in United Nations operations in the former Yugoslavia, Mozambique, Liberia and Iraq and, on the other hand, in our aspirations to become a member of Atlantic and European security organizations - the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Western European Union. This is why we have also joined the Partnership for Peace, one of whose priorities is coordination and cooperation by its participants for peace-keeping missions. The Czech Republic is also participating as best it can in humanitarian assistance to stricken countries. We are fast approaching the time when we will be able to provide direct economic development assistance as well. The active part the Czech Republic is trying to play in the Security Council stems from our belief that we were elected to serve: to serve not our particular interests, but certain fundamental principles, irrespective of where in the world they may be imperilled. The Security Council has in recent months dealt with several truly extraordinary situations. Let me examine some of them. With regard to the crisis in the former Yugoslavia, reaching a political settlement is a key objective of world diplomacy. The United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) has been a critical element in managing this problem, and my country is proud of having a mechanized battalion integrated in this Force. Belgrade, in accepting the Contact Group plan, has taken a helpful step towards an overall solution of the area's problems. We also welcomed Belgrade's closing of the border with Pale. In response, the Security Council re- evaluated the extent of sanctions imposed on Belgrade, hoping that its change of attitude would turn out to be serious and lasting. We will, nevertheless, be carefully examining reports of international monitors on how strictly Belgrade keeps its international border with the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina sealed. The mutual recognition of the States of the former Yugoslavia within their internationally recognized borders is the most important next possible step, one that is important for all countries of the region. We are following closely the operations of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) forces and their cooperation with the United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG). The case of Georgia is viewed by some observers as paradigmatic: this was the first time that a peace-keeping operation - to wit, UNOMIG - included the forces of a Power of the region. It was also the first time the Security Council actually welcomed the use of a force dominated by such a Power - the CIS force - in solving a local conflict. According to this view, cooperation between UNOMIG and the CIS in Georgia might perhaps serve as a model for resolving certain other conflicts elsewhere in the CIS. The Czech Republic, however, strongly believes that each peace-keeping operation is sui generis. Each conflict is different, and each operation therefore has to be evaluated on its own merits. Africa, the continent of the President of the General Assembly, has this year seen some of the greatest tragedies to befall mankind since the Second World War. The scope and ferocity of the genocide in Rwanda is hard to comprehend. It goes far beyond anything that can be considered a 'mere' civil war, and we are hard pressed to find any parallel to it. We welcome the conciliatory attitude of the new Rwandan Government. The multinational force in Haiti led by the United States has raised many hopes in the initial phase of its operations. Its difficult task will be to curb and, better yet, prevent violence in a society that has seldom known any other way of solving political differences. The Middle East is, fortunately, moving towards peace, and we congratulate the leaders of Israel, Palestine, Jordan and others who have amply demonstrated that even the most intractable problems of the world can be solved. In some circumstances the United Nations has played a gallant role in the region. The liberation of Kuwait was a case in point. Since the Gulf War, we have insisted that Iraq fulfil all of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. We have great appreciation for the work of the Special Commission (UNSCOM) and have taken serious note of a number of measures Iraq has undertaken to meet the demands of Security Council resolutions concerning weapons of mass destruction. We are still, however, looking for a declaration by appropriate Iraqi authorities recognizing the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait within its internationally respected borders. Even this review suggests that a large portion of the Security Council's agenda has to do with peace-keeping operations. Following the end of the cold war, their number increased dramatically, with skyrocketing costs. This could not of course continue unchecked. Exercising restraint in authorizing new peace-keeping operations is the first condition for putting the whole system on a sound footing. In peace-keeping, as in every other aspect of its operations, the United Nations must live within its means. There are of course two financial flows that determine the means at the disposal of the United Nations. On the one hand there is the outflow: a function of how troubled our world is and of which of its troubles we choose to tackle. On the other hand there is the inflow: a function of equity in allocating the financial burden and of the discipline of Members in shouldering it. Only a few operations come to mind as having been largely successful. Let us take a closer look at one of these - the United Nations Operation in Mozambique. In that operation we see the following success factors: a well- crafted peace plan; a realistic mandate for the United Nations force; the fact that the politicians concerned put the interests of their country above all else; the tenacity of United Nations personnel in carrying out their mandate, and the timing of the operation. One wonders whether, today, the necessary troops could even be assembled. By contrast, a number of peace-keeping operations are facing difficulties. Angola's peace plan, for example, was probably not crafted quite well enough; post-election fighting is a consequence of the fact that the antagonists kept their armies intact. In Somalia, the factions do not seem to agree that there ever was a peace plan in the first place. This is perhaps the case in Liberia as well. In the former Yugoslavia, the strength of United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) troops is in many ways not commensurate with their mandate. We must therefore draw the necessary lessons. It is very important to examine the key success factors of successful operations and to try to ensure that they are present in every peace-keeping operation. But the main lesson is this: the United Nations is not a panacea for all of the world's ills. The Security Council is often sought out by factions who cannot agree on anything among themselves. But we have to insist on one principle: in general, it is the people and the leaders of a country who themselves have to demonstrate a readiness to tackle their problems before the United Nations can come in and assist them. So much, in general, about the outflow of resources. At the same time, the United Nations faces a terrible crisis of inflow. A radical reform of the existing system of financing is needed to overcome the crisis in the financing of peace-keeping. We strongly support the idea of replacing the existing arbitrary mechanism with a system based on standard, objective and quantifiable criteria. We also support the idea of establishing an independent body to study the principle of the capacity of countries to pay. This should become the fundamental criterion for determining the scale of assessments. The Czech Republic meets its financial obligations towards the United Nations in full and on time. It has also covered an appropriate share of the obligations of the former Czechoslovakia. My country has not yet, however, been assessed for peace-keeping operations, pending determination of the group in which it should be placed. This matter should be settled in the context of agreement on objective criteria for making such determinations in general. The increase in the number of peace-keeping operations has increased the dangers faced by their personnel. We therefore consider it particularly important to complete as soon as possible the work on a convention dealing with responsibility for attacks on United Nations and associated personnel. Last year we were acutely aware of the need for greater responsiveness on the part of the Security Council to United Nations personnel at large. This need continues, but some slight progress has been attained. Meetings of Security Council members with countries contributing troops to major peace-keeping operations have become more frequent, perhaps even routine. Improved cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations would no doubt improve the efficiency of both in dealing with international crises. We are particularly interested in further strengthening the cooperation on the part of the United Nations with the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, but also its cooperation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. That is why last January, during our Presidency of the Security Council, we suggested the possibility of a United Nations seminar with regional organizations. Understanding full well that they all have different charters, characters and qualities, we still feel that a continuing exchange of experience can enrich the entire international system of multilateral diplomacy. We commend the Secretary-General for organizing the first meeting along these lines earlier this year. The future shape of the Security Council is one of the most important questions this General Assembly session will deal with. The effort exerted to date is reflected in the report of Ambassador Insanally, Chairman of the ad hoc Working Group. The basic role of the Security Council - maintenance of international peace and security - determines its unique position. There is no question about the need for it or about its impact on international affairs. This exceptional position of the Council should be maintained. Efforts to improve its functioning are thus informed by other considerations. It has to earn the greater confidence of Member States. Even after it is reformed, the Council will have to remain rather small to maintain its efficiency. If its work improves, that should not be because of increased size or expanded responsibilities but because of its enhanced authority. The countries that should be considered for new permanent membership are those that have the economic, political and military potential to contribute to the maintenance of global security, are prepared to assume the responsibilities implied by permanent membership, and are ready actively to participate in the implementation of Security Council decisions. The key factor, in our view, is the global influence of candidates. The principle of unanimity and its obverse - that is, veto power - expressed in 1945 the fundamental responsibility of the great Powers for maintaining world peace. Since the dissolution of the bipolar world, this responsibility has, if anything, further increased. We therefore favour maintaining the unanimity principle. We are delighted that our last General Assembly session resulted in the creation of the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights and congratulate Ambassador Ayala Lasso on his appointment. Even during his very first few months in office, he has demonstrated its usefulness. We have no doubt that this Assembly will follow through with the implementation of additional recommendations of the 1993 Vienna International Conference on Human Rights. The danger of nuclear proliferation has not disappeared. Ongoing discussions with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are one example that proves this point. We support an indefinite and unconditional extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and we will advocate this position at the fifth Review Conference of that Treaty next year. We support an increased role for the International Atomic Energy Agency in verifying how the Treaty is being adhered to. We favour accelerating work on the comprehensive test-ban treaty. We share the view that the production of fissionable material for nuclear weapons and of nuclear explosive devices should be banned. We support maintaining a moratorium on nuclear tests and an agreement on banning all such tests, as well as further negotiations on limiting nuclear arsenals and on the measures necessary to prevent illicit trafficking in nuclear material. Ours is a small world full of problems, with almost 50 years of global peace but replete with local wars; abundance side by side with poverty; success in South Africa, progress in the Middle East, but a Bosnia and a Rwanda torn asunder. All this, and much more, is characteristic of today's world and is reflected in today's United Nations. Our fervent hope is that when the leaders of the world meet here next year, they will be celebrating 50 years of an Organization that will have become even more successful in a world that will be much closer to overall peace, prosperity and democracy. The Pakistan delegation congratulates you warmly, Sir, on your election to preside over this important forty-ninth session of the United Nations General Assembly. Your election is a fitting tribute to your experience and outstanding achievements. It is also an expression of the high regard in which the international community holds your great country. We are confident that under your able stewardship this Assembly will succeed in advancing the noble aims and objectives of our Charter. I wish also to record my delegation’s profound appreciation for your predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana. He presided most ably over the Assembly as well as over the important Working Group on Security Council reforms. The principal purpose of this world Organization is 'to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war'. The United Nations must ensure that the twilight of the twentieth century is not as bloody as was its dawn. We must act resolutely to end the series of regional conflicts that currently threaten international peace and stability. The civil war in Afghanistan has compounded the suffering imposed on its people during the long and victorious struggle against foreign occupation. The world community should not forsake the Afghan people. We must continue to demand an immediate end to the hostilities. We must promote a new political consensus for the future governance of Afghanistan. To facilitate this, we must commence reconstruction in the peaceful parts of the country. We welcome the temporary truce in Tajikistan. Pakistan hopes that the preliminary steps agreed will be implemented by the parties. This is essential to ensure the success of the third round of United Nations- sponsored talks, to be held in Islamabad later this month. The United Nations must encourage the peaceful resolution of the Cyprus issue on the basis of a bi- communal and bi-zonal federation, in which the Turkish Cypriot and the Greek Cypriot community would have equal status. The Security Council must act, under Chapter VII of the Charter, to implement its own resolutions, reverse the Armenian aggression and restore the unity and territorial integrity of Azerbaijan. We all bear a collective responsibility for the failure to halt and reverse Serbian aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina. A holocaust has taken place before the eyes of the world. Two hundred thousand Bosnians, mostly Muslims, have been killed. Of them, 30,000 were innocent children. Forty thousand Muslim women have been systematically raped by the Serbs. Millions of Muslim men, women and children have been ejected forcibly and brutally from their homes. While the aggression was going on, the major Powers went through the motions of promoting peace. The Security Council adopted 50 resolutions, but it has yet to implement them. Mediators appointed by the United Nations and the European Union advocated peace plans that rewarded the aggressor and penalized the victim. Even the right to self-defence has been denied to the Bosnians. The United Nations Protection Force has 10 supervised relief but failed to stop the war or protect the Bosnian people. It was only when the North Atlantic Treaty Organization carried out - belatedly - the threat of air strikes that the Serbs halted their onslaught against Goradze and Sarajevo. The Bosnian Serbs have rejected the peace plan, which is, in truth, unjust to the Bosnian Muslims. It does not entirely reverse 'ethnic cleansing'. It does not punish the aggressor. It does not ensure the territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia should be offered peace with justice, otherwise peace will not endure. Pakistan and other Islamic countries are appalled at the Security Council’s recent decision to ease the sanctions against Belgrade - the root cause of the aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina. This will not stop the flow of military supplies to the Bosnian Serbs. It will merely encourage Serbian intransigence. The Bosnian Muslims must be allowed to exercise their right to self-defence. Pakistan and other Islamic countries fully support the demand for the immediate lifting of the arms embargo against Bosnia and Herzegovina. We regret the threats by certain countries to withdraw their troops from the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) if the embargo is lifted. The Islamic States will be ready to contribute their troops to UNPROFOR to compensate for any shortfall created by such withdrawals. We call for vigorous steps by UNPROFOR to effectively protect and provision Sarajevo and other safe areas. We also urge the creation of exclusion zones around all safe areas. If expansionism is not stopped in Bosnia, if genocide is not punished, the virus of war will spread to Kosovo, to Sandjak and perhaps to the entire Balkans. A wider conflict in this volatile region could have the most serious consequences for peace and security in Europe and the Mediterranean. A grim and bloody struggle is also going on in Jammu and Kashmir. As in Bosnia, it is an unequal struggle - between the defenceless Kashmiri people and an Indian occupation force that now numbers 600,000. In Kashmir, as in Bosnia, the principles of the Charter, of international law and of international morality have been violated with impunity. The struggle of the Kashmiri people is just and legitimate. They were promised by the United Nations Security Council - and by India and Pakistan - that they would decide, through a United Nations-supervised plebiscite, whether they wished to join India or Pakistan. On 26 June 1952, the late Prime Minister of India, Mr. Nehru, stated in the Indian Parliament: 'If, after a proper plebiscite, the people of Kashmir said, ’We do not want to be with India’, we are committed to accept that ... we will not send an army against them'. But India has gone back on its agreement. It refuses to implement the Security Council resolutions. It has sent its army against the people of Kashmir. It has chosen to crush the Kashmiri freedom movement by brute force. Over the past five years, 40,000 Kashmiris have been killed; thousands more are in Indian jails. Thousands of Kashmiri women have been raped by Indian soldiers as part of a policy to break the spirit of the Kashmiri people. Whole villages and neighbourhoods have been put to the torch. Torture is routine; disappearances are common; and summary executions are standard practice in Kashmir. India’s massive violations of human rights have been well documented by impartial organizations and observers, such as Amnesty International, Asia Watch, the International Federation of Human Rights, the International Commission of Jurists, Physicians for Human Rights and many others. The world knows about Indian barbarism in Kashmir. It is unfortunate that the world has remained silent so far. When faced with the possibility of censure by this Assembly last year, India offered to resume talks with Pakistan on Kashmir. In the talks held last January, India displayed no desire for a settlement. It repeated the fiction that Kashmir was an integral part of India. The Indian Foreign Secretary told us that India had the right to use as much force as it wanted to prevent Kashmir from breaking away. When the issue was raised at the Commission on Human Rights, India offered cosmetic concessions to prevent the dispatch of a United Nations fact-finding mission to Kashmir. Thereafter, it denied it had made such a deal. On the ground as well, India escalated its repression as soon as international pressure was eased. The day after we agreed to resume talks, India conducted a massacre in Sopore, killing 50 Kashmiris. Once India had concluded that the major Powers would overlook its human rights violations because of the lure of trade and profits in India, the repression against the Kashmiris and the rhetoric against Pakistan sharply escalated. 11 Let me quote from the conclusions of the latest report of Human Rights Watch/Asia, entitled: India: Continuing Repression in Kashmir (August 1994, vol. 6, No. 8) 'As this report amply illustrates, the human rights situation in Kashmir is getting worse at a time when international pressure on the Indian Government has all but ceased. Indeed, it could be argued that the increase in deaths in custody and other abuses over the last six months is not unrelated to the signals sent by India’s one-time critics, notably the United States: that human rights would no longer feature prominently in bilateral discussions'. (p. 20) I have seen the statement made here yesterday by the Commerce Minister of India. While I can fully subscribe to the high ideals which he has propounded, I find myself in the same situation as the distinguished philosopher the late Mr. Bertrand Russell, when he observed that 'When one observes that the high idealism of the Indian Government in international matters breaks down completely with the question of Kashmir, it is difficult to avoid a feeling of despair'. India preens itself and postures on the issue of terrorism. Terrorism is the use of indiscriminate violence against innocent people. This must be condemned. By this yardstick, India is guilty of daily and systematic acts of terrorism against the Kashmiris. On the other hand, to resist a foreign invader, to repel an army of occupation engaged in murder, torture, rape and arson is not terrorism. It is the exercise of self-defence. Self-defence is a right as old as history; a right recognized in the United Nations Charter. Distinguished representatives: If your son was killed, and his body was thrown on your doorstep, how would you respond? If your daughter was gang-raped by the soldiers of an occupation army, what would be your response? The Kashmiri people have the right - under international law, under our Charter, under our resolutions - to resist the Indian army of occupation by all the means at their disposal. Their heroic struggle cannot be dismissed as terrorism. It is a valiant freedom movement which deserves the full support of the international community. Pakistan is a party to the Kashmir dispute. Our people are incensed at India’s brutal killing of our Kashmiri brothers and sisters. We have, nevertheless, acted with restraint. We have extended moral, political and diplomatic support to the Kashmiris. We have refrained from extending military help to them. The Indian allegations of Pakistan’s support for the so-called militants are designed to explain away the resilience of the Kashmiri freedom movement, to erode international sympathy and support for the Kashmiris and, more ominously, to create perhaps a casus belli for a new aggression against Pakistan. The Kashmir crisis poses a growing threat to international peace and security. On India’s independence day this year, Prime Minister Rao demanded all of Kashmir. In recent months, Indian politicians and generals have threatened to launch attacks across the Line of Control. India’s violations of the cease-fire have escalated. During August alone, the United Nations Military Observer Group for India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) recorded 142 complaints from Pakistan of Indian cease-fire violations. Indian firing across the Line of Control is specifically aimed at civilians. In the past five years, over 600 civilians have been killed on our side of the line. Pakistan’s self-restraint should not be misunderstood. Indian aggression will have disastrous consequences. There are three priorities in addressing the Kashmir question: first, to avert the threat of a conflict; secondly, to ameliorate the suffering of the Kashmiri people; and, thirdly, to open a credible diplomatic process designed to achieve a just and peaceful solution to the Kashmir dispute. To arrest the threat to peace, I have addressed a letter to the President of the Security Council proposing that the United Nations Military Observer Group for India and Pakistan should be substantially enlarged from its present size of 35 observers. UNMOGIP should be allowed to perform its mandate of patrolling both sides of the Line of Control. This would help to stem cease-fire violations, lower tensions and avoid the danger of a conflict. The enlarged United Nations Observer Group could also ascertain the veracity of India’s allegations that Pakistan is providing military assistance to the Kashmiri struggle. I hope that the Security Council will approve our proposal. I hope that India will allow the United Nations Observers to discharge their mandate of patrolling on both sides of the Line of Control. Secondly, to ameliorate the suffering of the Kashmiri people, India should take some genuine steps to halt its 12 repression. We note with satisfaction that concern about opinion at this Assembly has convinced India to release at least two of the imprisoned Kashmiri leaders. This is a victory for the Kashmiri freedom struggle. These aging and ailing leaders will, we hope, be allowed to proceed abroad for medical treatment. Shabir Ahmed Shah, who, like Nelson Mandela, has spent 20 years in prison because of his commitment to freedom, has not been released. The world community must demand the release of this prisoner of conscience. There is no evidence that India has given up its repressive strategy in Kashmir. This will become visible once India lifts the Draconian emergency laws operative in Kashmir, releases all the Kashmiris detained in Indian jails, withdraws a part of its huge force from Kashmir, and allows human rights organizations and humanitarian agencies free access to the occupied Valley of Kashmir. And we hope the international community will not forget the victims of Indian atrocities. As in Bosnia and Rwanda, the human rights violations which have been documented and reported by impartial agencies must be investigated by an international tribunal, and those who are found guilty must be punished. Finally, the efforts to promote a political settlement of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute must take into account three realities. First, the Kashmiri freedom struggle cannot be crushed by force. New Delhi’s forecasts of imminent success are designed to deceive the Indian public and world public opinion. The Indian army is caught in a quagmire. Secondly, despite India’s assertions about Pakistan’s interference, the Kashmiri struggle is obviously indigenous. The Line of Control in Kashmir has 400 soldiers per kilometre. The Indians have wired and mined the Line. Nothing can get through. United Nations monitoring of the Line can verify this. No external force can convince the Kashmiris to offer the kind of sacrifices being made by Kashmiri men, women and children in the cause of freedom. For five years the Kashmiris have sustained their struggle. They will continue their struggle even if Pakistan wishes otherwise. Thirdly, no credible Kashmiri group or leader accepts a 'solution' for Kashmir within the Indian Union. The so-called political process advertised by India is wishful thinking. The All Parties Hurriyat Conference, which groups 34 Kashmiri political parties and organizations, has rejected any settlement short of freedom from India. Arriving in Srinagar after his release two days ago, Abdul Ghani Lone said: 'Any elections to be held in Kashmir are to be under the auspices of the United Nations and ... only for the right of self-determination'. The other released Kashmiri leader, Syed Ali Shah Ghani, said: 'Elections are no answer to the problem in Kashmir. The people of the State do not accept anything short of freedom. There will be no compromise in the fight for self-determination'. India’s attempt to organize another fraudulent election in Kashmir will prove abortive. As the Security Council declared in 1957, such unilateral actions cannot be considered as the basis for the 'final disposition' of Jammu and Kashmir. This can only be done through a United Nations-supervised plebiscite prescribed by the Security Council. A final settlement of the Kashmir dispute will have to be based on the freely expressed wishes of the Kashmiri people. In a paper transmitted to India last February, Pakistan outlined the possible modalities for ascertaining their wishes. Pakistan welcomes the Secretary-General’s offer to exert every possible effort to 'facilitate the search for a lasting solution to the Kashmir issue' (A/49/1, para. 542). We hope India will also accept the Secretary-General’s offer of good offices, as Pakistan has done. Pakistan is prepared for talks with India on Kashmir. It was Pakistan which initiated the Foreign Secretary-level talks. But after six rounds of talks it is evident to us that India’s ostensible desire for negotiations with Pakistan carries little credibility while it continues the killing in Kashmir. Pakistan does not reject dialogue, but it must not be a dialogue of the deaf. Kashmir is a dispute between India and Pakistan. Every dispute between two States is bilateral. It is also an international issue. The United Nations is obliged to take cognizance of such disputes, specially when they involve violations of the United Nations Charter and the non-implementation of Security Council resolutions. Kashmir is the key to unlocking the problems of South Asia. Kashmir cannot be brushed aside any longer. The conspiracy of silence must be broken. A resolution of the Kashmir situation is required to avoid the danger of a conflict. A solution of the Kashmir dispute will also 13 enhance the prospects of conventional arms control and non-proliferation in South Asia. My Government believes that to reduce the danger of war in South Asia it is essential to promote a balance in conventional arms between Pakistan and India, at the lowest possible levels. India fields the third largest army in the world. Almost all of it is deployed against Pakistan. During the past decade India was the world’s largest arms importer. Even during the Afghan war, India’s arms acquisitions were over five times those of Pakistan. Pakistan’s defence capabilities have deteriorated further since 1990. Last year, while Pakistan’s defence spending declined in real terms, India’s increased by 20 per cent. Pakistan has made several proposals to India for conventional arms control: negotiation of a mutually agreed ratio of forces; measures to prevent the possibilities of a surprise attack, adoption of agreed principles for conventional arms control in South Asia. Pakistan has no desire to expend more of its scarce resources on arms. Meaningful arms control and confidence-building measures could also help to stem the danger of a nuclear arms race in our region. Pakistan’s concern about nuclear proliferation in South Asia precedes the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). As early as the mid-1960s Pakistan had warned the world that India would misuse nuclear cooperation. The late Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto proposed the creation of a South Asia nuclear-free zone in 1972. In May 1974 India exploded the bomb - ironically calling it the 'Smiling Buddha'. Pakistan made every endeavour to counter proliferation in South Asia. Apart from the nuclear- weapon-free zone, we advanced subsequent proposals: for the simultaneous signature of the NPT by India and Pakistan, for acceptance of full-scope safeguards, for joint renunciation of nuclear weapons, for a bilateral test-ban treaty. All have been spurned by India. A proposal made by the United States for a conference to promote non-proliferation in South Asia, involving Russia, the People’s Republic of China and the United States, as well as India and Pakistan, was also rejected by New Delhi. Pakistan has displayed responsibility and restraint in the nuclear field. While we have acquired a certain technological capability, we have not manufactured or exploded a nuclear device. We have not deployed nuclear weapons. We have not transferred sensitive technologies. Twenty years after exploding its nuclear bomb, India is about to take another fateful step towards proliferation: the production and deployment of nuclear-capable ballistic missiles. India is continuing work on its medium-range AGNI missile as well as on intercontinental ballistic missiles. It conducted user trials of the short-range Prithvi this year. The Prithvi is a mobile missile. Once it is produced, Pakistan will have to presume that it has been deployed. It is still not too late to prevent nuclear-weapon proliferation in South Asia. Pakistan suggests two critical steps to avoid this danger. First, we suggest an agreement between India and Pakistan not to develop or deploy ballistic missiles. India’s production and deployment of the Prithvi will invite a matching response from Pakistan. We have advanced the concept of a Zero Missile Zone in South Asia. This objective should be endorsed by the world community. Secondly, we suggest an agreement between India and Pakistan not to manufacture or deploy nuclear weapons. We hope India will respond positively to this longstanding proposal. We hope it will agree, as a first step, to issue a joint declaration with Pakistan renouncing nuclear weapons. It is unfortunate that India and Pakistan have never succeeded in solving any of their disputes through bilateral negotiations. Agreements reached on two major problems - the Indus Waters Treaty and the Rann of Kutch Accord - were made possible by the intercession of a third party. At this critical moment, when tensions are high and peace is threatened in South Asia, the States Members of the United Nations have a fundamental responsibility to bring to bear their collective influence to promote solutions to the interlinked problems of Kashmir, conventional arms conflict and non-proliferation. 14 Pakistan desires good-neighbourly relations with India. We want our people to devote their energies to the vital task of nation-building. We want to banish from our midst the spectre of rampant poverty. We want our people to live with dignity. These goals cannot be attained unless we resolve the Kashmir problem and others and build a climate of trust and confidence in South Asia. Pakistan has embarked on a new path of socio-economic revival and growth. We have released the dynamism of our private sector. We have created an economic climate that is most hospitable to domestic and foreign investment, and the results have been most gratifying. Agreements for foreign investment of $4 billion were concluded 10 days ago with a delegation led by the United States Secretary of Energy. Additional investment is likely in the energy, telecommunications, electronics and other dynamic sectors of the Pakistan economy. Today, Pakistan and all of South Asia have the chance to break out of the cycle of poverty and underdevelopment. We must not lose this chance. We must not let history pass us by again. We meet on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. The end of the cold war has released both positive and negative forces that were long suppressed. The principles of democracy, human rights and free markets have triumphed. We have celebrated the entry into the United Nations of many new States, proud and free. The victory of democracy has been achieved in South Africa. The victory of peace may well be realized in the Middle East. Today, there is no threat of a global nuclear war. Unprecedented affluence has been achieved in parts of the world. Momentous technological breakthroughs have been made. We now have the potential to achieve global peace, address global problems and promote global prosperity. But even as we celebrate these victories, the triumphs of reason and statesmanship, we must confront the dark forces of aggression, racism, fascism and bigotry, which have again raised their head in many parts of the world. It is, perhaps, not surprising that once the restraints of the cold war structures were lifted, conflicts and disputes - between States and within them - should have erupted like an epidemic. The world community has been unprepared to confront and repel aggression - witness Bosnia, Azerbaijan and Kashmir. We have been unable to muster the political will to stop genocide - witness Rwanda. We are unprepared to pay the price to help the hungry and save the deprived of the Earth - witness the Sahel. The principal task of this session must be to revive hope, to restore the confidence of our peoples, that we, the States Members of the United Nations, acting together, can build peace where it is broken; that we can bring solace to those who are suffering; that we can uphold and enforce justice where this is needed; and that we can enlarge the horizons of prosperity to embrace those teeming millions who are imprisoned in poverty. Mr. President, we welcome with great satisfaction your election to preside over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly in the certainty that your qualities as an outstanding and experienced diplomat, in addition to your well-known personal dedication, will guarantee that our work is fruitful and effective. Through you, your country and all of Africa will have the well- deserved opportunity to contribute to the deliberations that lie before us. We should like to express our gratitude to your predecessor. Ambassador Insanally, for the able manner and constructive spirit in which he guided the forty-eighth session. We should also like to express to the Secretary- General our appreciation for the far-sightedness with which he is performing the task of guiding the United Nations in the new era into which it has entered. In recent years there has been broad agreement that the great events that have shaken the world, giving rise to great hopes of human progress, have led to different and in many respects contradictory changes and prospects, and that there has been a delay in forging a genuine consensus among nations. Democracy as a way of life has been established in a large number of countries in every geographical area and is developing with obvious dynamism. We hope for a kind of rebirth, inspired by an ever-greater participation in the whole social fabric of national life. In this framework, the civic aspect is coming to the fore and taking on increasing vigor. Long deemed indispensable to economic progress, private enterprise has seen its role considerably increased in many developing countries. Unquestionably, there is an increased general awareness of the environment throughout the world, and the idea that the value of the planet's resources must endure as a condition of our very survival is gradually becoming a guide and a criterion for human activities. International action to combat violations of human rights in all forms and to encourage the exercise of those rights has become a constant, despite the distance separating us from the attainment of our desired objectives. The rejection of the social inequality of women is gaining ground, and we shall from now on be discussing the way this is reflected in practice. Those are the salient factors, in addition to others of equal importance, that are among the positive trends which are at our disposal and which must be developed at all costs so that we can derive the full benefit of their great potential. However, in the two major areas that constitute yardsticks for assessing mankind's well-being - those of peace and development - the present situation is far from satisfactory. Conflicts continue to proliferate, and positive settlements have been achieved to very few of them. Situations of poverty have assumed vast proportions and even critical levels in several regions, particularly in Africa. The persistence of these evils in the post-cold-war era reminds us that the community of nations still lacks a direction that might lead it towards the fulfillment of its own concept of genuine community. There has been a lack of vision to recognize the true scope of collective interests and the political will and ability to implement them. There has also been a lack of cooperation and tolerance as independent values untouched by the systematic quest for the upper hand. Peace and development are closely linked. Moreover, we are convinced that the most complex challenge concerns development and that the most decisive influences on the relationship arise from that challenge. Indeed, collective security hinges on shared progress - shared within a framework that provides justice and equality. It is a fact that during periods of expanded economic growth the most visible effects of imbalance have, for better or for worse, been attenuated. However, the development to which we aspire cannot be limited by narrow so-called realism. Equality as an inherent element of progress cannot be described as an ideal today. It is, rather, a prerequisite. The United Nations shouldered a very specific responsibility and role when, in its Charter, it solemnly committed itself to working towards a better world. The United Nations is a unique body and its indispensability in serving the interests of all is becoming ever clearer today. It is indeed in this universal forum that there is a need jointly to establish guidelines for the entire world, that the random developments we experience converge, and that mechanisms and measures commensurate with today's issues are promoted. In order to increase its ability to carry out its mission in the present context, the United Nations has decided to reform its structure to make it more effective and stronger and to ensure greater participation: Under the dynamic and tireless coordination of the Secretary-General, the process is under way and we hope that at the present session of the Assembly new and fruitful progress will be achieved allowing the Organization further to promote economic and social development, prevent conflicts and eliminate their causes. In this regard, the Assembly will continue to make use of the guidelines set down in its 'Agenda for Peace' and will have the opportunity to evaluate the report containing the draft of an Agenda for Development. The strengthening of the legitimacy and authority of the United Nations will remain linked to an improvement of its democratic representativeness and to better regional balance, as well as to safeguarding the identity of all, including that of smaller States. In this context, Africa has recently formulated its current position on the reform of the Organization. This reform must provide genuine political and operational consistency to all the bodies and structures of the system, within whose framework the African continent must have an appropriately expanded representation. In the meantime, the question of the expansion of the Security Council has been answered by some States with expressions of their readiness to assume increased responsibilities within it. As to the diversification of regional representation, we note with satisfaction and welcome with great fellow-feeling the announced candidacy of a Portuguese-speaking country, Brazil. Since the opening last year of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, several important political events have taken place in the world. We were particularly struck by the magnificent example of maturity and vision offered by the people of South Africa and its leaders, particularly President Mandela. We wish to share with them the pride of all Africa and the admiration of the international community. Unfortunately, the lessons to be derived from this example have not yet been put into practice in some cases in our region. Recent events in Rwanda, which have brought such great pain to its people and especially its children, are a tragedy which our conscience demands never be repeated on our continent. Moreover, hostilities continue that could and should have been over by now, while opportunities for peace and reconciliation have been missed again and again, in particular in Liberia. The agreements already concluded among the Liberians must now be implemented and an end must be put once and for all to armed clashes and their repercussions on neighboring countries and the West African region. The conflict that has so long afflicted Angola has passed through a stage of incredibly destructive, deadly violence following the failure peacefully to implement the results of the elections of September 1991, even though those elections were supervised and declared free and fair by the United Nations. We very much hope that the present stage of negotiations between the Government of Angola and UNITA will finally herald a cessation of hostilities in the near future and the opening of an era of peace, reconstruction and progress so long awaited by a people with which Cape Verdeans feel such brotherly solidarity. The coming elections in Mozambique will doubtless close an era in which national interests have prevailed.  but also in which the United Nations and the international community have rendered praiseworthy assistance. We wish Mozambique all success in these elections, during which Cape Verde will be present as part of an observer team from the United Nations Operation in Mozambique. It is essential that the parties continue rigorously to observe the rules of the democratic game by unequivocally accepting the outcome of the elections once these have been declared free and fair by the international community. We are gratified by the way in which the recent first legislative and presidential elections in Guinea-Bissau took place and by the peaceful respect shown for its results. This attests to the sense of responsibility of the political leaders of the country. In Sao Tome and Principe, the established democratic system was reaffirmed by the calm that prevailed during the electoral process that was completed at the end of last week. We also wish to declare our support and encouragement for the continuation of the talks which are taking place under the auspices of the Secretary-General between Portugal, Indonesia and representatives of East Timor. We hope that they are taking place on the basis of forms of participation that respect the fundamental rights of the citizens of East Timor. As regards the maintenance of peace, it must be recognized that in recent times notable progress has been made on the international level, in the United Nations in particular. The improvement of this capability must continue, and this will require even greater cooperation and complementarity with the regional organizations. Africa is showing what it can do in this area, but obstacles to maximizing this potential remain in the form of gaps that must be filled through more consistent, predictable and timely support by the United Nations and the partner countries. The prevention of conflicts remains, in any case, the primary objective to be sought. The action to be taken to this effect finds its reference points in the recommendations in 'An Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277). However, the ultimate success of prevention will continue to depend on the longer-term task of eliminating the deeper causes of the conflicts, which, of course, are many. In addition, it will be crucial to tackle them simultaneously, not only to produce synergy but also so that the relevant lessons can be learned concerning these causes and the relations between them. One of the major causes of the instability that generates conflict is poverty, to which we referred earlier. That in itself would be sufficient to lend urgency to the eradication of poverty. However, the scope and nature of the phenomenon require of us a reaction based on the moral aspects of the heritage of mankind. Today, it is understood that all peoples must live in dignity; that is their basic human right, and we must guarantee them the realization of that right. This need must transcend the present stage of mere words, and a program must be implemented to transform the situation. A particularly valuable contribution to this is in the works: the World Summit for Social Development, for which preparations are now under way. Within this framework, there will be a need to analyze the development of the human being in society, and not just some reduced concept of the social element as an objective. We still have enough time, and it is our duty to muster the necessary will to achieve the goals set for this important Summit. The fact that for countless individuals it is impossible to benefit from contemporary parameters of well-being has resulted in the major migrations of our era, which reveal the critical imbalances which continue in certain regions of the world. The solution can, clearly, come only from development and from the rejection of scenarios in which some parts of the world or groups of people are excluded or marginalized. In the meantime, we emphasize the need to see implemented the recommendations of the International Conference on Population and Development concerning refugees, displaced persons and migrants, a timely instrument which has been made available to us. Within the framework of global development one of the major questions that arises is that of Africa. This question must continue to be given very high priority on the international agenda and on the agenda of the United Nations. The seriousness of the situation prevailing on our continent, the longstanding nature of the problem and the observation of indicators for future prospects deserve to be met as a particularly complex challenge and should never be considered as a pretext for showing lassitude or indifference. The lack of progress in Africa would be a set-back for all, not just for the Africans. We are convinced that this fact will become increasingly clear to us. In the 1990s in particular, Africa undertook, in rather difficult conditions, reforms and economic adjustments as well as political and managerial transformations. The African achievement certainly has not yet reached its optimal goal, but it must be said that on many occasions it was not adequately supported by external measures and resources, which are, after all, indispensable complements. The African economic and political systems doubtless still have a long way to go, and they must become more effective and be based on the participation of all. African regional cooperation must increase its pace and must obtain increased benefits. However, the continent must be the beneficiary of, inter alia, a major reduction in its debt burden, the elimination of obstacles to its exports, vigorous foreign investments and increasing international assistance better adapted to national policies. Referring again to the constraints that are affecting Africa in particular, we reiterate the need to mobilize adequate and sufficient resources to allow for the implementation of the International Convention to Combat Desertification, in particular concerning the Sudan and Sahel region and in cooperation with the Inter-State Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel. For Cape Verde, which is coordinating the activities of this Committee, it is particularly important that this event be crowned with success. Next year, as we approach the end of the twentieth century, we shall be marking the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization. There are numerous reasons to celebrate this event, especially if we were to try to imagine what the world would be like without the United Nations. My country cannot forget the role which the Organization played in its political emancipation and in its development efforts following that emancipation, nor do we forget that it offers a forum in which small countries can have their say and participate in the deliberations. We welcome in this context the holding of the United Nations Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, and we hope that the results of the Conference will be fully implemented. The time has come to consolidate the feeling of a shared destiny among the diverse nations that are today gathered together within the Organization. We must no longer put off the task of setting out on those re-charted paths which our aspirations require. I should like to offer congratulations and special greetings to Ambassador Essy on his unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I am confident that under his able leadership this session of the General Assembly is well placed to address successfully the important issues on its agenda. Allow me to express appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally for his wise and effective guidance during the session just concluded. He has indeed made an outstanding contribution, of which our region is very proud. We express our thanks to the Secretary-General for his stewardship of the Organization during these trying times, and we renew our pledge to give him our fullest support. Trinidad and Tobago, like the rest of the world, is in the process of making fundamental changes in the way we manage our affairs. We have already advanced significantly along the path of deregulation and liberalization brought upon us by the inexorable move towards globalization and borderlessness, and most importantly by the absolute necessity to achieve greater efficiency and higher sustainable levels of productivity. Greater emphasis is being placed on the market paradigm as the means to unleash the inner energies of our society and to create the wealth needed for the improvement of the lives of all our citizens. But let me hasten to add that we are acutely aware of the imbalances that could arise as a result of the purest play of market forces, and we as a society consider it our responsibility to ensure that distributive justice exists in our system, sufficiently to guarantee the well-being of all of our citizens, including those who are unable to compete and who for one reason or another may have been pushed out of the mainstream of national activity. In other words, whilst many things may be changing, there is one constant in Trinidad and Tobago, and that is our preservation of a humane and just society where all have the opportunity for fulfilment. Side by side with the globalization process, or maybe as a byproduct of it, is a resurgence of regionalism throughout the world. In our own hemisphere this is very pronounced, and the dream of a free trade area from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego seems more realizable than ever before. We are pleased to see various subregional groupings emerge and then develop relationships with one another. Never before in the history of our hemisphere has the integration process been so advanced. We have the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), the Andean Pact, the Central American Integration Movement, the Latin American Economic System (SELA), the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and the Rio Group, in addition of course to the Organization of American States. It is significant that the cooperation which is flowering is not only economic but also political; this augurs very well for the development as well as for the security of the hemisphere. In addition to this multilateral coalescence, there is a general strengthening of bilateral relationships. We in CARICOM have been making strides towards overcoming historical barriers and have been deepening our ties with Latin America. My own country, having this year established diplomatic relations with six countries of Latin America, now has diplomatic relations with all the countries of the western hemisphere. Also, we joined 38 others, including both independent countries and non-independent Territories, in establishing the Association of Caribbean States, comprising countries of the Caribbean littoral and bringing into being a market of over 200 million people with a combined gross domestic product of $500 billion. We do all this for the benefit of our people, realizing that when we join forces we are stronger, we lay the bedrock for a stable environment within the hemisphere, and we create, among other things, megamarkets for our products and generate the wealth through which we improve the standard of living in our countries. I have spoken about the possibilities for political co-operation as a result of the integration processes taking place in our region. May I mention an outstanding current example. I refer of course to Haiti. At present in Haiti, sanctioned by Security Council resolution 940 (1994), is a multinational force comprised mainly of troops from the region, with military contributions from elsewhere. My Government welcomes the cooperation extended by countries outside the region whose farsightedness persuaded them to contribute to the restoration process now taking place in Haiti. In the changed circumstances of today’s world, there is more than ever a need to cooperate for security purposes and for the preservation of democracy, and this 19 of course requires the political will which has been demonstrated by our region in the Haitian situation. Soldiers from Trinidad and Tobago are part of the multinational force at present in Haiti. We are pleased to participate in the collective efforts to ensure stability and the return of democracy and the democratically elected President to that country. We believe that the Caribbean has a special responsibility in relation to Haiti. We have therefore been in the forefront of attempts to solve the crisis, and we vow to remain with the problem until it is no more with us. Trinidad and Tobago joins the jubilation of the millions of proud Haitians at home and in the diaspora at the welcome news of the resignation of General Raoul Cedras and his Chief of Staff. Like others, we hope this sends an unequivocal message to those elements in Haiti that seek to continue to wage war and terror against a people still yearning for a society of freedom, democracy and justice - a society in which the collective talents and resourcefulness of Haitians can be appropriately channelled towards rebuilding their nation and fighting the enemies of poverty and degradation. Another area of Caribbean concern has to do with Cuba. We welcome the commencement of dialogue between Cuba and the United States of America on specific issues. These talks should assist in laying a foundation for the resolution of remaining difficulties and in achieving the long-term objective of fully reintegrating Cuba into the Western Hemisphere. We in the Caribbean are doing our part towards the goal of Cuba’s reintegration. We have established the Cuba-Caribbean Community (CARICOM) Mixed Commission, and recently Cuba joined us as a founding member of the Association of Caribbean States. Trinidad and Tobago also welcomes the consolidation of democracy in the Latin American and Caribbean region. Peaceful elections continue to be conducted in these countries, deepening the democratic process in the region. We are pleased with the many positive developments in our part of the world. There have also been positive developments in former areas of conflict which seized the attention of this body for many years, further illustrating what can be achieved through partnership and political will. The peaceful transition to democracy in South Africa a few months ago stands out as a beacon of hope and signals that no problem is insurmountable if there is concerted national and international action. Trinidad and Tobago joins with the international community in assuring South Africa of its continued support in this crucial post-apartheid period. The Government of South Africa has announced its decision to include among its priorities the continuation of traditional friendships and the promotion of new partnerships. We look forward to the development of strong bilateral relations between South Africa and ourselves, a process that is already under way. Trinidad and Tobago is also heartened by the progress achieved so far in the Middle East peace process. We welcome the initiation of self-governing arrangements in the Gaza Strip and Jericho - important developments in this transition period - and look forward to the extension of Palestinian self-governing arrangements to encompass other occupied territories in the implementation of the Declaration of Principles. The international community’s support for development efforts in the economic and social fields and the rebuilding of infrastructure destroyed during the long years of occupation is critical to the Palestinian people at this time. We are encouraged by the Washington Declaration of 25 July 1994, issued by the Governments of Jordan and Israel, which ended the state of war and paves the way for normalization of relations and a formal peace treaty. We also appreciate the efforts made by the Syrian and Lebanese Governments in their commitment to advancing the peace process in the Middle East. Whilst there is cause for satisfaction globally, we continue to be traumatized by other events which have already shattered the lives of millions of people, evoking images more horrendous than those we have witnessed before. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, a genocidal war rages on, having already brought the evil of “ethnic cleansing” into our modern vocabulary and consciousness. We were first appalled and are now numbed by the horror in Rwanda, where hundreds of thousands of lives have been lost, creating hellish human suffering in that country. Destruction, oppression and suffering continue in various parts of the world, affecting hundreds of thousands of lives in Somalia and elsewhere. Nuclear proliferation makes us all very uneasy, creating pictures of an abyss of unspeakable chaos into which we can very easily slip. The ideological divide may be behind us, but the threat of Armageddon still hangs over humanity. It has become a cliché of international helplessness to say that the world community must act decisively and expeditiously to do this or that to deal with many of the problems that I have mentioned. The fact is that there is 20 a very long road ahead. To effect lasting solutions to the crises that are upon us we must go back always to the fundamentals and remember, for example, that development and peace are inextricably linked. If we are to get anywhere near to solving some of our problems we must deal with key issues such as good governance, the promotion of peace, the promotion of justice as a pillar of society, sustainable environmental management and social development. There is no doubt in my mind that the world community is already beginning to grapple with fundamentals. We are in the process of elaborating the Agenda for Development as a necessary complement to the “Agenda for Peace”. International conferences of world leaders, some held and others to come, all point the way to a new partnership for development based on global consensus and action. In this regard, the World Summit for Social Development will be convened in March 1995 in Denmark to address some of the serious ills afflicting many societies by focusing on the key problems of poverty, unemployment and social marginalization. The programme of action to be adopted at the social Summit must therefore include specific provisions, including adequate financial resources for implementation and follow-up by the international community and, more specifically, by the United Nations and its agencies and institutions. There can be no doubt that the quality of life in many countries today as it relates to the individual is undergoing a grave transformation. The growing intolerance and increasing senseless violence within the home and in communities at large have led many to question the very mores of the society in which we live. The situation is further aggravated by the growth of organized transnational crime, which in many countries exacerbates problems of rampant vicious criminal activity, terrorism, drug abuse, illegal drug trafficking and money laundering. In this era of increasing globalization, no Government, particularly Governments in the developing world, can hope, on its own, to address effectively these varied problems. We therefore welcome the approval by the International Law Commission earlier this year of a draft statute for an international criminal court and we support the convening of a diplomatic conference to conclude a convention on the establishment of a permanent court. Another important area being tackled by the international community is the full participation of women in the process of development. The fact is, effective international cooperation for development will remain elusive, in the absence of specific measures for an adequate means of empowering all members of society to participate fully in the political, economic and social life of their respective societies. It is widely acknowledged that investment in women can have an enormous impact on the advancement of society as a whole. However, women from all parts of the globe continue to face systematic discrimination in all fields of endeavour, while also bearing a disproportionate burden of the consequences of economic recession, poverty, structural adjustment policies and political strife. In acknowledging this, Trinidad and Tobago has put in place constitutional guarantees to ensure equal treatment for all under the law, irrespective of gender, creed or race. My Government holds steadfastly to the position that women must be allowed equal opportunity to participate fully in all spheres of life and at all levels of society, particularly in decision-making positions. Trinidad and Tobago is encouraged by efforts made during the ongoing preparatory process for the Fourth World Conference on Women to address these and other crucial issues. Much work remains to be done in the ensuing months. My Government will continue to work closely with others in an effort to elaborate concrete recommendations, including specific attainable goals, aimed at overcoming the numerous impediments to the advancement of women. The population question also continues to be on the international agenda. It is recognized that population- related goals and policies must be integral parts of cultural, economic and social development aimed at improving the quality of life. Consequently, the International Conference on Population and Development, which was convened in Cairo last September, quite appropriately reviewed the impact of demographic factors on development and emphasized the importance of the entire spectrum of population policies to the development process. We must now take concrete steps to uphold the principles and implement the Programme of Action adopted by the Conference. The crucial area of the environment is also being discussed. Member States have taken initial steps at the national and international levels, towards the elaboration of a new development paradigm based on the integration of environmental concerns in development activities. The continuation of this process would lead to the 21 implementation of the policies and decisions adopted at Rio de Janeiro, thereby making possible the attainment of the targets identified for our common good. As a follow-up to the Rio de Janeiro Conference, the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which was held in Barbados earlier this year, allowed island States and the rest of the international community to explore a comprehensive approach to sustainable development within the framework of Agenda 21. For many island developing States which have remained on the periphery of international programmes for development, the implementation of the agreements adopted in Barbados will create the opportunity to participate as contributors and beneficiaries in a truly global effort. As Chairman of the Alliance of Small Island States, Trinidad and Tobago reiterates its commitment to playing a lead role in the active pursuit of the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action. The preservation and sustainable management of the resources in all global commons must be an important goal of the Agenda for Development. But this goal must be facilitated by the development of legal regimes to ensure that we successfully carry out our duties as trustees of those resources. In this context, Trinidad and Tobago welcomes the imminent entry into force of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, having participated very actively with other Member States in forging a new, more universally accepted public order for the oceans. The spirit of accommodation and consensus manifested in the work achieved by the Preparatory Commission for the International Seabed Authority and for the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea constitutes a solid and valuable foundation for the launching of the International Seabed Authority in Kingston, Jamaica, on 16 November 1994. Trinidad and Tobago will continue to participate constructively and in close cooperation with other Member States in the decision-making process of the Authority as well as in other institutions related to the 1982 Convention. The coming into force of the Convention on the Law of the Sea should provide an impetus to the United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, which is developing principles for the effective management of one of the most important renewable food resources. This objective can be attained only if there is a confluence of political will to act decisively. Political will is also absolutely necessary if we are to address adequately the various international economic impediments to effective national efforts to promote social progress and better standards of life. The major obstacles include trade barriers, insufficient flows of international financing, onerous external debt and the inadequate transfer of technology to developing countries. They serve to frustrate the ardent efforts made by Governments to revitalize their economies. Trinidad and Tobago welcomes the important step taken earlier this year towards free and open trade, with the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations. We emphasize, however, that as we seek to implement the trade liberalization measures under the agreements arrived at, urgent attention must be given to the persistent trend of economic growth accompanied by increased poverty, unemployment and marginalization of large sections of populations the world over. It is clear from what I have said that it is only through a multilateral approach that we will solve the problems of the world. Clearly, the most appropriate vehicle to accommodate this approach is the United Nations. People are turning increasingly to the United Nations not only for the realization of their aspirations for peace and security, but also in their quest for development with equity and social justice. Following the dissipation of the distrust and hostility of the cold-war era, the United Nations ought to be in a better position to respond to these needs. On becoming a Member of the United Nations 32 years ago, Trinidad and Tobago undertook along with other Member States to maintain international peace and security and to promote the economic and social advancement of all peoples. To this end we intend to participate actively in current efforts to restructure the United Nations to enable it to become more responsive to the needs of Member States in this dynamic international environment. As the United Nations is on the threshold of celebrating its fiftieth anniversary, Trinidad and Tobago is pleased to recommit itself to the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter. As Members, we need to redouble our efforts towards forging universal peace and a new era of development, in which both nations and individuals find security and fulfilment. I am confident that inherent in the human condition is the desire and the will to achieve these goals. May I first congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over our work. I wish you every success in your presidency, and assure you that you may rely on the full cooperation of the delegation of Chile. I wish also to greet the Secretary-General and to assure him once again of our support in the performance of his difficult task. When he visited Chile a few days after the inauguration of President Eduardo Frei, the Secretary-General had an opportunity to appreciate our readiness to cooperate in the activities of the United Nations system, in the conviction that multilateral action was essential to the strengthening of international peace and security and to the improvement of the living conditions of men and women the world over. 36 The fall of the ideological barriers imposed by the cold war gave rise to expectations of an era of peace and global security. These expectations are strengthened by the spread of democracy and the emergence of a new awareness of the importance of human rights throughout the world. At the same time, the processes of globalization and economic interdependence are creating new opportunities for progress and making the dissemination of technology and knowledge more feasible. Nevertheless, five years after the end of the cold war we must acknowledge that the reality has fallen far short of our dreams. The last decade of this century is one of uncertainty and contradictions. Regrettably, along with the signs of hope there has been a re-emergence of many economic, political, ethnic, religious and cultural conflicts and a tendency towards fragmentation and differentiation, which pose new threats to the peace and new challenges for the international order. This process of transition has enhanced the role of the United Nations as the guarantor of world peace and security. It has compelled our Organization to assume new responsibilities, both in negotiations for conflict prevention and in operations for the maintenance or restoration of peace. Nevertheless, the immediate concern to maintain peace and security should not prevent us from recognizing and attacking the root causes of these conflicts. Poverty, inequality between individuals and between nations, environmental deterioration, unemployment and ignorance, over-population, disorganized migration, and discrimination against women and young people are today as important factors in creating conflict as is military proliferation or ideological confrontation - if not more so. Tackling these problems requires using the imagination, creativity and solidarity of the international community, as well as resources as large as or even larger than those being spent today on resolving conflicts that have already begun. The security of human beings must be an international priority along with widespread promotion of respect for human rights. In March of this year a new phase in the Chilean democratic process began with the installation of the Government of President Eduardo Frei. The continuity of this process has made it possible to strengthen the stability of democratic institutions and has increased respect for human rights in the country. Of course, we do not claim that our democracy is perfect; many aspects of it still require further attention, and with that in mind draft legislation on institutional changes is currently being discussed in the National Congress. Nevertheless, we are certain that, together with the other countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, Chile will continue to advance along the path of political stability, democratic institutionality and respect for human rights. Our recent economic experience has been successful. Since the return of democracy we have had an average annual growth of more than 6.5 per cent with a very low unemployment rate and controlled inflation. On the basis of these facts the Government has formulated an ambitious modernization strategy focusing on three main areas: education and training, development of infrastructure, and modernization of the State. The reforms in education seek to respond to the need for effective and creative integration of young people into society, and to meet the challenge of competitiveness. The changes in the functioning of the State entail a special concern for ethics and probity in the exercise of power. Attainment of these priorities should enable us to raise our productivity and increase our capacity to compete in international markets in the context of a growing open economy. We are concerned at the difficulty the major countries are nevertheless experiencing in opening up their economies in sectors that are vital to the equitable functioning of world trade. We reject an international trade system based on protectionism by the powerful directed against those who are prepared to accept competition. Nevertheless, economic advances would lack meaning if they did not lead to a substantial improvement in the living conditions of the majority of Chileans. The Government recognizes this and has made the elimination of extreme poverty an essential priority of its programme. Without equity, growth would lose its raison d’être and stability would be threatened by the tensions arising out of the privations experienced by large sectors of the population. Economic growth and social justice constitute two terms of a single equation. Latin America and the Caribbean are our natural frame of reference and external action as a region that shares both political and security interests and major economic interests. The region has overcome the political, institutional and economic crisis which afflicted it in earlier decades. Most countries of the continent have recently held elections, or will do so in the coming months. The tranquillity, openness and participation that 37 today characterize these processes are convincing proof that Latin America has embarked on a major process of modernization and stability. Along with this has come a major expansion of cooperation and regional integration. Integration initiatives and mechanisms of varying geographical coverage and thematic scope have multiplied. Chile has participated in these efforts, negotiating economic complementarity and free-trade agreements with the majority of the countries in the region. In the immediate future, Chile hopes to be able to make a new contribution to the creation of a broad Latin American economic area by achieving closer links with the Common Market of the Southern Cone and by signing complementarity agreements with Ecuador and Peru to add to those already concluded with Mexico, Venezuela, Argentina, Bolivia and Colombia. We also view with enthusiasm the strengthening of our links with the Central American and Caribbean countries with which we have significantly expanded our political and economic relations and cooperation. We wish to promote a climate of peace, dialogue, solidarity and mutual trust among the countries of the region. We are sure that today this is more possible than before, given the presence in the region of more democratic regimes than it has ever had in its history. In this context, the Rio Group has become a significant regional political cooperation mechanism, and its activity has recently expanded to cover economic coordination aspects. The strengthening of the Rio Group, which emerged from our continent’s re-democratization and resurgence, is a key to Latin American’s ability to speak with a unified voice in the new international context. That is how our main partners in the world, with whom we meet periodically in discussion forums to which we are attaching increasing importance, perceive it. Our policy towards Latin America and the Caribbean is fully compatible with closer integration into world markets. Chile today is a country that is open to the world, dependent for 40 per cent of its gross national product on external transactions and seeking to strengthen its relations with the dynamic centres of growth and technological information. We define our policy as an open regionalism, one which seeks regional integration not in order to close its markets but in order to achieve greater integration into the world economy. In this connection, our preference for multilateralism is well known. We support all the phases of the extensive negotiations under the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), and are now in the process of ratifying the agreements reached there. Our attitude in this respect matches that of our main partners in Latin America. During the eight years for which the Uruguay Round lasted the countries of the region unilaterally reduced their tariffs by an average of more than 50 per cent and contributed by making significant concessions, despite the fact that not all the objectives they were seeking to negotiate were achieved. Accordingly, we now have the right to call for the results of the Round to be implemented and, once the World Trade Organization has been established, for progress to be made in discussion of the many problems the Round left pending, especially in relation to agriculture and services. Nevertheless, it is obvious that in the current phase of the world economy multilateralism is being accompanied by the negotiation of partial or regional economic agreements which are progressively extending over a large part of international trading activity. Hence our interest in the integration progress in North America, our search for sounder and more imaginative patterns of economic relations with the European Union, our imminent entry into the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC) and our constant readiness, shared with our region, to move ahead with economic cooperation with all regions of the world. Current international circumstances have led to progress in various areas which it is important to emphasize: the defeat of racism and apartheid, progress in disarmament, the solution of international conflicts, cooperation and détente - all issues which have led to the strengthening of the world Organization. Chile salutes the people and the Government of the new South Africa in the person of President Nelson Mandela and welcomes the success achieved by the United Nations and by the South African people themselves in building a democratic and just South Africa which respects the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. We wish also to express our support for the peace and negotiation process under way in Angola and 38 Mozambique. We urge the rebel forces in both countries to negotiate seriously and in good faith to end this conflict, in compliance with United Nations resolutions. In the case of Angola, the date of 30 September set by the President of the Security Council for the ending of the negotiations is approaching, and it is accordingly essential to arrive at a speedy solution on the basis of the 'Acordos de Paz'. Let me also express our satisfaction at the progress made through the agreements between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, which are overcoming obstacles to the attainment of a lasting peace throughout the Middle East. On behalf of my country, I wish to reiterate our support for the negotiations under way between Israel and Jordan, as well as those between Israel and Lebanon and between Israel and Syria. In contrast to these positive steps, we view with great concern the tragedy in Rwanda, horrified at its magnitude and at the inability of the international community to contain it. Chile conducted a national campaign of solidarity with the children of Rwanda which met with an extremely good response in our country. The risk is that, if efforts are not made to eliminate the deep-lying causes of tragedies such as this, other similar sources of tension may arise in other countries, testing the capacity of our system to react. Likewise, we cannot fail to express our most profound concern at and most energetic rejection of the extremes to which the fratricidal struggle in the former Yugoslavia has been taken. We urge the warring parties to abandon the use of force as a means of solving their disputes and to submit them to the internationally recognized peaceful means of settlement. Chile is also profoundly concerned at the situation in Haiti resulting from the protracted usurpation of power and the non-implementation of the Governors Island agreements. The military occupation of a country is always a regrettable occurrence that we should all like to avoid. Nevertheless, it is important to recognize that in this instance such action was taken on the basis of a Security Council resolution and in response to repeated failure to comply with international commitments, failure for which the Haitian military alone are responsible. We reiterate in this Assembly our support for the measures taken by the United Nations and, in particular, our full acceptance of the resolution adopted by the Security Council. The Government of Chile will fulfil its commitments to participate in the reconstruction of Haiti, in the manner agreed upon with the democratic Government of that country, as soon as institutional order has been restored. Chile has cooperated in peace-keeping operations, and it has recently expressed its readiness to expand that cooperation, in the profound conviction that improving the capacity of the United Nations system in these efforts is a priority task. The current bureaucratic mechanisms, which place a very heavy burden on the countries providing peace-keeping contingents, must be replaced by others that will make it possible to provide the United Nations with the best in human resources and equipment. It is essential to reach agreement on a statute for protection of United Nations personnel and to create an international fund to administer the financing of peace-keeping operations. The new impetus in international disarmament negotiations, particularly with respect to a nuclear-test-ban treaty, increases the need for a global, democratic and participatory approach in this area. There is an urgent need to increase the membership of the Conference on Disarmament - the only major multilateral negotiating forum on these topics - to make it sufficiently representative and enable it to respond appropriately to the new challenges. Chile considers that prohibiting the use of fissionable materials for hostile purposes and universalizing security guarantees for non-nuclear-weapon States would be positive steps in the direction of nuclear disarmament. Nevertheless, their success would depend on full acceptance of inspection and verification procedures. In step with progress in the substantive negotiations, a need is making itself felt to extend and expand safeguards and control regimes until they become universal, without thereby impeding the access of developing countries to sources of science and technology. The recent ratification of the Treaty of Tlatelolco by Chile, Argentina and Brazil, as well as Cuba’s decision to sign it, will enable Latin America to become a genuine nuclear-weapon-free zone. This, together with the manifest reduction in tension and armaments in the region, constitutes an effective contribution by our region to world peace. In this context, we have indicated our interest in becoming a member of the Security Council for the period beginning 1996. We have done so convinced that Chile can legitimately and adequately represent the 39 interests of Latin America and the Caribbean in that important body. We can and must make substantive progress in designing better systems for preventing conflicts or taking immediate action to restore peace. But, unless we simultaneously attack the enormous inequalities and privations that lie at the root of many conflicts we shall not significantly reduce international tensions. The origins of these tensions lie in the exclusion of major sectors of the world’s population from the benefits of the new order, an exclusion aggravated by population growth and by the characteristics of the new world economy, for when factors such as knowledge and technology come to outweigh others, such as the availability of raw materials or low-cost labour, the hopes of those who possess only an abundance of the latter are increasingly disappointed, thus widening and deepening the social gaps within and between countries. From a bitter past, Chile has learned the lesson of the close relationship that exists between peace, democracy, economic growth and social development. The central objective of a security policy is the security of individuals and of the communities in which they live. The accentuation of inequality or exclusion is not only ethically unacceptable, but also politically dangerous. No new international order will be stable or lasting if it is based on the exclusion of the majority of those who comprise it. We are convinced that the absence of democracy and the lack of economic growth centred on the human being are at the root of the international instability that characterizes our era. President Frei has spoken of a 'diplomacy for development', referring in these terms to the necessity to adjust foreign policy to the objectives and needs of each country and to the link that must necessarily exist between our international action and our internal objective of growth with equity. We therefore attach the greatest importance to the Agenda for Development that is under discussion in the United Nations. This was the thinking behind the convening of the World Summit for Social Development, unanimously approved by the General Assembly. The analysis by Heads of State and Government in Copenhagen next March should lead us to a new policy to combat poverty, promote employment and accelerate social integration. In particular, we believe that the social Summit should adopt a common commitment to eradicate extreme poverty in the world through a concrete and efficient plan of action. What is decided there will be intimately linked to the conditions of security and coexistence in the emerging international order. The social Summit, together with the recent Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo, the World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing in 1995, and the Secretary-General’s proposed Agenda for Development, indicates the growing interest that this Organization is taking in social issues. Chile intends to comply with the agreements reached at the Rio de Janeiro Summit and to promote a new policy on environmental issues. In this context, its National Congress recently approved the Convention on Biological Diversity, and our ratification has just been deposited with the United Nations. In turn, we are convinced that environmental problems will remain unresolved, and may even become exacerbated, if the necessary resources are not available to deal with them through joint action by developed and developing countries. This is becoming increasingly apparent in some developing countries, where poverty is accelerating environmental deterioration as a result of the excessive and uncontrolled use of certain resources. The dual task of maintaining peace and at the same time creating conditions for the elimination of structural sources of conflict is an enormous challenge to this Organization. Nevertheless, we are convinced that if we do not take up the challenge we shall reach the beginning of the next millennium without having laid the real foundations for a new international order that will permit the peaceful coexistence of mankind. Taking up this challenge is not a task for the major Powers alone, although their involvement is essential; rather, it is a task for all nations capable of making a contribution - especially the medium-sized countries, which make up a large part of the international community. Chile is prepared to be a part of this effort, as are, we are sure, all the countries of Latin America. The central role of this Organization must be strengthened and supported in the crucial years that lie ahead, for this is the only way to ensure that the settlement of conflicts does not alter international legality, that arbitrary intervention is prevented and that the rights of the weakest are respected. Mr. President, I wish to join others who have spoken before me in congratulating you on your election to guide the deliberations of the forty-ninth session of the United Nations General Assembly. As you undertake this solemn and challenging responsibility we assure you of the Liberian delegation’s fullest cooperation and support. Let me also convey our gratitude to your erudite predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, for the skilful manner in which he guided the deliberations of the last session. Our able and distinguished Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, deserves special commendation for his unwavering commitment to the principles of the United Nations and his untiring efforts in the promotion of world peace, international security and human dignity. We are particularly pleased at his keen interest and involvement in the search for durable peace in Liberia. As we approach the midpoint of the last decade in this millennium we are encouraged that our world continues to make steady progress in the transition from years of ideological confrontation to convergence on global interdependence. A manifestation of this changing situation is the growing utilization of a consensual approach to addressing such burning issues on the international agenda as human rights, population and the environment. In this regard we welcome the outcome of the International Conference on Population and Development held at Cairo and look forward to the World Summit for Social Development, to be convened in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1995, which will consider the core issues of alleviating and reducing poverty, expanding productive employment and enhancing social integration. General Assembly 22nd meeting The peaceful transition from apartheid to majority rule in South Africa has been of monumental significance to Africa. We heartily welcome the new Republic of South Africa into the fold of the world body and look forward to the positive contributions it can and will surely make to the achievement of the noble goals of the United Nations. These positive developments in the international system are, however, often overshadowed by flashpoints of ethnic conflicts around the world. The situations in Bosnia, Rwanda and Somalia, and in my own country, Liberia, among others, appear to be intractable. The brutality and destruction unleashed by these conflicts often tend to overwhelm the international community and make peace- keeping a major preoccupation of the United Nations and, to an increasing degree, of regional organizations as well. Economic and human resources that could otherwise be applied to improving the human condition are being expended on peace-keeping activities. Some of these intra-State conflicts are so complex that policy makers are forced to debate the pros and cons of peace-keeping or peacemaking when the main issue should be that of saving lives, especially in those situations where a legitimate governing authority is absent. The result is that the international community sometimes reacts with what may amount to short-cut solutions. Often attempts at resolving some of these conflicts unwittingly overlook the intransigence and recalcitrance of warlords who were the ones primarily responsible for bringing untold suffering and deprivation to their own people. These conflicts also create lucrative opportunities for arms dealers and international supporters of warlords. A disturbing phenomenon associated with these conflicts is that of the child soldier. Children are recruited, indoctrinated and trained in the art of murder, mayhem and genocide, thus depriving a country of an entire generation of its human resources. This is particularly true for my own country, Liberia, where the great majority of the 60,000 combatants are children who have yet to complete their primary education. The forced conscription of our children — the building-blocks of our future — must be stopped, since it violates the Convention of the Rights of the Child. Therefore we should not yield to any action that has the effect of sanctioning the acquisition of power through the use of force or promoting solutions aimed at appeasing warlords at the expense of the larger unarmed population. The world has witnessed the rise, during the last four years, of a powerful movement for democracy and democratization. This movement has swept asunder some of the strongest totalitarian regimes in its wake, from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union to Latin America, Africa and Asia. The international community must therefore demonstrate its resolve to support this movement so that the democratic aspirations of all peoples are realized throughout the world. It would be an indictment of the present world leadership for it to simply watch countries become involved in these conflicts, which may have been ignited initially by the spark of democratization. It is against this background that we wish to briefly review the Liberian peace process. At the outset, I should like to register the heartfelt gratitude of the Liberian people to the gallant men of ECOMOG — the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Military Observer Group — who foiled the attempted coup on 15 September 1994. Since 1990, their selfless sacrifice has provided a security blanket in parts of Liberia, thus enabling us to work towards the attainment of peace in our country. It will be recalled that in December 1989 the Liberian situation exploded into an armed conflict, ostensibly to rid the country of military dictatorship. By mid-1990, however, the conflict had degenerated into a three-way struggle for power. The State machinery had disintegrated. None of the armed factions engaged in the struggle appeared capable of winning a decisive victory and establishing legitimate authority. In the wake of this deadly stalemate, ECOWAS intervened with a two- pronged peace plan: A peace-monitoring force would be dispatched to Liberia to provide security for the country, while the Liberians themselves would re-establish an internal civil administration to prepare the country for democratic elections. The ECOWAS peace-monitoring group, ECOMOG, arrived in Liberia in August 1990. An All-Liberia Conference was convened in Banjul, the Gambia, in the same month, and elected the Interim Government of National Unity (IGNU). Upon the insistence of the National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL), a second, All- Liberia Conference was convened in Monrovia in 1991, which endorsed the Interim Government. Unfortunately, 2 General Assembly 22nd meeting the NPFL, which insisted on the Conference as a precondition for peace, walked out during the deliberations. Several other meetings of the warring factions were held in Banjul, Freetown, Dakar, Bamako, Lomé, Yamoussoukro and Geneva, in search of peace with the armed factions. With remarkable success, the ECOWAS peace plan, with an interim civilian administration for Liberia and with ECOMOG, restored some degree of stability and provided a semblance of law and order in the country for a period of two years. On 15 October 1992, the NPFL launched an unprovoked attack on ECOMOG and the people of Monrovia in what was termed “Operation Octopus”. The refusal of the NPFL to fully comply with the Yamoussoukro Accord gave rise to a new armed group, the United Liberation Movement of Liberia for Democracy (ULIMO), which claimed its sole purpose was to free the Liberian people from the NPFL. With hostilities raging among the armed factions, the United Nations, in concert with ECOWAS and the OAU, decided to convene a peace conference of the parties to the conflict in Geneva in June 1993. The meeting was attended by the NPFL, ULIMO and IGNU. The IGNU delegation included the Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL). The United Nations Secretary-General’s Special Representative chaired the meeting, which was also attended by the OAU Eminent Person, the Executive Secretary of ECOWAS and the Field Commander of ECOMOG. The framework agreed upon in Geneva was formally concluded and signed by the parties in Cotonou, Republic of Benin, on 25 July 1993. The overriding principle of the Cotonou Agreement was to achieve disarmament and demobilization of the warring factions, which agreed that they would give up their arms in exchange for participating in the formation of a new government. The Cotonou Agreement provided for the establishment of the Liberian National Transitional Government, headed by a five-man Executive Council of State, a 35-member Transitional Legislative Assembly and the reconstitution of the Supreme Court and the Ad Hoc Elections Commission. Each of these organs was to be composed of nominees representing the parties to the Agreement. The Cabinet positions were apportioned in consultation with the parties. The Liberian National Transitional Government was given the mandate to extend its authority throughout the country, to repatriate and resettle refugees from abroad, and to conduct free and fair elections within six months. Disarmament was to be carried out concomitantly with the seating of the Liberian National Transitional Government, and the armed factions agreed to cooperate with the expanded ECOMOG to disarm under the supervision of the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia. The Liberian National Transitional Government was inducted into office on 7 March 1994, and the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General gave assurances that disarmament would commence simultaneously. He also assured the Liberian people that the armed factions would comply fully with the provisions of the Cotonou Agreement. After the seating of the Liberian National Transitional Government the military aspects of the peace process did not keep pace with the political aspects as contemplated by the Agreement. Moreover, it took six months for the additional troops from Tanzania and Uganda to arrive in Liberia. The expanded ECOMOG troops were never deployed and the factions did not disarm. They continue to believe in the attainment of political power by force of arms or, more precisely, through the barrel of the gun. Consequently, there has been a mushrooming of armed groups. There are now two factions of ULIMO and two factions of NPFL. There is also the Liberian Peace Council (LPC) and the Lofa Defence Force (LDF). Each of the breakaway factions of ULIMO and the NPFL, together with the LPC and LDF, have joined in a coalition of forces to fight the branch of NPFL led by Mr. Charles Taylor. As I speak, the battle in central Liberia rages on. A consequence of this situation is the mass exodus of frightened citizens who have had to seek refuge and havens in neighbouring countries and a heightening of the humanitarian needs of the country. I come now to the Liberian National Conference. Realizing the current morass in the country and the uncooperative attitude of the warring factions towards the Liberian National Transitional Government, a citizens’ consultative meeting was convened in Monrovia from 29 to 30 July 1994. At that meeting the people of Liberia determined that for the last four years the destiny of the country had been largely dictated by the warring factions and that they, the citizens, were being marginalized. They also concluded that the stalemate in the peace 3 General Assembly 22nd meeting process was the result of the intransigence of the warring factions with respect to disarmament and their failure to cooperate with the Liberian National Transitional Government, ECOMOG and UNOMIL in carrying out their respective responsibilities and duties under the Cotonou Agreement. The people of Liberia therefore decided that they must, and would, become involved in breaking the stalemate in the peace process. They have therefore convened since 24 August 1994 the Liberian National Conference (LNC), with representatives coming from all walks of life, including the 13 political subdivisions of the country, political parties, interest groups, professional organizations, social and religious organizations, trade and labour unions, student and youth groups and women’s organizations. The Conference organizers endeavoured to involve and encourage the participation of the warring factions. The Conference was addressed by the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General, Mr. Trevor Gordon- Somers; the former United States President, Jimmy Carter; and the OAU Eminent Person, the Rev. Dr. Canaan Banana. General Arnold Quainoo, ECOMOG’s first field commander and Special Representative of the ECOWAS Chairman, and the Executive Secretary of ECOWAS, Dr. Edouard Benjamin, also addressed the Conference and expressed support for it. The Conference agenda included disarmament and demobilization, governance and elections. The consensus of the Conference was that the fundamental problem of the Liberian conflict is not governance, but, rather, the refusal of the armed groups to disarm and demobilize. The Conference therefore called for strong and effective sanctions to be applied against armed groups and warring factions which fail to cooperate in the disarmament process. With respect to governance, the Conference indicated that the mandate of the Liberian National Transitional Government should be extended and the Council of State strengthened so as to take the country through to free and fair democratic elections. We also see the Liberian National Conference as the embodiment of the democratic aspirations of the Liberian people and their opposition to the acquisition of power by force. Too much time, energy and resources and too many lives have been lost by Liberians and other West Africans to settle now for a less than honourable, just and lasting solution. I turn next to the Akosombo Agreement. The Liberian National Conference had gained momentum and was at the height of the debate on the fundamental problems of disarmament, governance and elections, when His Excellency, President Jerry Rawlings of Ghana, Chairman of ECOWAS, along with the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, undertook new initiatives to resolve the impasse in the peace process. A meeting of leaders of two warring factions, Mr. Charles Taylor of the NPFL and Lieutenant-General Alhaji S.G. Kromah, of ULIMO, together with the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of Liberia, Lieutenant-General J. Hezekiah Bowen, was held at Akosombo, Ghana. The OAU Eminent Person, Dr. Canaan Banana, also attended the meeting. Except for General Bowen, the Liberian National Transitional Government delegation was excluded from the deliberations at Akosombo. On 12 September 1994, General Bowen, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL), without authority signed the Akosombo Accord, along with the two warring leaders: Charles Taylor and Alhaji Kromah. The Agreement did not adequately address the issue of disarmament but instead called for the restructuring of the Council of State of the Liberian National Transitional Government (LNTG). The two armed factions would each nominate a representative; General Bowen — selected without consultation — would represent the AFL, the constitutional army of Liberia; the ongoing Liberia National Conference would nominate one civilian; and the National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL) and the United Liberation Movement for Democracy in Liberia (ULIMO) would consult to nominate the fifth member of the Council. The restructured LNTG would have a life-span of 16 months, with general elections slated for October 1995 and installation of the newly elected government in January 1996. The LNTG delegation registered its reservations about the Agreement with the Ghanian Government before returning to Liberia. In Liberia, the Akosombo Accord caused an outcry and widespread indignation. It was viewed as yet another attempt to appease the armed factional leaders whose uncompromising stance has been responsible for prolonging the conflict, causing the death of so many Liberians and bringing so much destruction and suffering upon the people. The Government of Liberia has therefore rejected the Akosombo Accord for a number of reasons. First, the Accord endeavoured to reduce the armed forces of Liberia, the constitutional army, to a warring faction. 4 General Assembly 22nd meeting Secondly, it failed to address adequately the political problems — disarmament and demobilization of the warring factions — that have been the single most important stumbling-block to the peace process. Thirdly, the premises underpinning the Akosombo Accord were fundamentally flawed. It ascribed power and influence to armed leaders whose standing, credibility and control within their own respective factions are questionable. There was also a failure to recognize the changing military positions of the factional leaders on the ground. For example, Mr. Charles Taylor of the NPFL has been unable to return to, or regain, his headquarters at Gbarnga since leaving the meeting in Ghana, because his forces have been driven out by rival factions. A few days after General Hezekiah Bowen returned from Ghana, there was an attempted coup and mutiny in his army ranks, and he had to seek refuge at the headquarters of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Military Observer Group (ECOMOG). General Alhaji Kromah’s ULIMO remains split. We are pleased to note that as an indication of his sincerity and commitment towards finding a just and lasting solution to the Liberian crisis, the President of Ghana and current Chairman of ECOWAS, His Excellency Jerry Rawlings, was quick to respond to the concerns raised by the Liberian people to the Akosombo Accord. Within days of its signing, he dispatched a delegation to Liberia to hold consultations on the Agreement. He has since convened a broader-based consultative meeting in Accra. Consultations on the Agreement continue in this regard. The Liberian peace process is now at a critical stage. The reaction to the Akosombo Accord and the renewed outbreak of hostilities in central Liberia among the armed factions may lead some to conclude that Liberians are simply not ready for peace, but this is not so. We are ready for peace. We believe peace could finally be within easy reach, given the right mix of initiatives. Recent events in the country, including the failed coup attempt by dissident elements of the Armed Forces of Liberia and renewed hostilities among the warring factions, reinforce the need for effective action towards disarmament and demobilization. I would be amiss if I did not say how grateful the people of Liberia are to the United Nations, ECOWAS, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), non-governmental organizations, relief agencies and the entire international community, who have made untold sacrifices and contributed towards the search for peace in Liberia. In this light, we wish to appeal to the world community to give greater support to the work of ECOMOG by providing additional logistics and resources to enable it effectively to execute its mandate under the Cotonou Agreement. Haiti provides a hopeful example of what can be accomplished when the international community stays the course in helping to find a peaceful solution to intra-State conflicts. Indeed, while the same set of variables that influenced tougher United Nations action in Haiti may not obtain in Liberia, the people of Liberia are crying out to the world, especially to those countries that are better endowed and constantly hail the benefits of democracy, to take the high moral ground and lend their potent voices and wherewithal to ending the human misery and suffering in Liberia. I am therefore confident that the United Nations, which has striven to implement the provisions of its Charter for about half a century, can still muster the courage and will to respond to the requisites of peace, democracy and development for the truly global era that is dawning as we approach the twenty-first century. I wish cordially to greet you, Mr. Amara Essy of Cote d’Ivoire, and to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I pledge the fullest cooperation of the delegation of Paraguay. Nor can I fail to echo the congratulations offered to Ambassador Samuel Insanally on the way he guided the work of the last session of the General Assembly. It is my pleasure also to hail the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and convey to him well- deserved congratulations on the excellent manner in which he has carried out his tasks. On behalf of the Government and the people of Paraguay, a founding Member of the United Nations, I pledge to him our full support for the Organization. It is our hope that he will visit our country as soon as he can; this would be further testament to our support for the United Nations and to our expectations as to what the United Nations can do to assist Paraguay in its current process of full democratization. That democratization has been under way in Paraguay since February 1989; it is now being consolidated under the Administration of Mr. Juan Carlos Wasmosy, President of the Republic. In this Hall one year ago, the President of Paraguay committed himself to consolidating the democratic process, with the support of the vast majority of Paraguayans from the different political parties and organizations that demonstrate the pluralism of our society, which is irrevocably determined to defend freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. Today, the name of Paraguay does not appear in the dossiers of human rights violations. Not a single United Nations or other agency of the international community has failed to note the undeniable progress in our country in every area connected with dignifying the human person, and the efforts we have made in the social sector. Hence, as I pledge on behalf of my Government and my entire society that we shall never, under any circumstances, diverge from the democratic ideal, I cannot fail to observe that problems remain in achieving a level of development with social justice; we shall keep trying to solve them resolutely, and in many cases with international cooperation. We shall not be satisfied until we secure for our inhabitants - Paraguayans and foreigners whom we have welcomed into our land - living standards considered adequate according to United Nations indexes. In view of the magnitude of the task, we again stress that the burden cannot be borne by one people alone. For us to be competitive, conditions in the international system must change: markets must be more open; credit must be more readily available, and at lower interest rates; and technology must be more accessible. We therefore believe in global solidarity, especially of the developed nations. The people of the developing countries cannot be asked to make greater sacrifices than they are already making unless they see a similar trend towards the transformation of the international community. If democracy and freedom are to exist and endure, peoples must enjoy development and better living conditions. I should like briefly to refer to our economic recovery, which began in 1989 and has produced very favorable results, even during a period of transition and major structural changes. Paraguay has been pursuing a policy of free trade and floating exchange rates, coupled with total freedom of movement for financial services and capital. The external debt has been reduced to $1.26 billion, almost the same as our current reserves of $1 billion. Paraguay offers a variety of tax incentives to both its own and outside investors for investment in production activities. These incentives place our country among those offering the best and most attractive terms in Latin America. Our privatization policy, which started with money-losing national industries, is already enshrined in our legal code. Furthermore, we project a growth in gross domestic product of 4.5 per cent this year. Education and training are a major priority of our Government, because it feels that accelerated development depends on well-trained people. As regards economic integration, the Treaty of Asuncion was signed in the capital of Paraguay in 1991, establishing the Common Market of the Southern Cone (MERCOSUR). At the recent meeting of the Presidents of the MERCOSUR countries, held in Buenos Aires on 5 August, they took a decisive step forward by agreeing by consensus to establish a common external tariff. In connection with this economic integration, we are pleased to confirm that Paraguay firmly and enthusiastically supports the negotiations on the entry into MERCOSUR of the fraternal Republics of Bolivia and Chile. Paraguay has suggested to its MERCOSUR partners the establishment of essential supranational machinery, such as the office of secretary-general and a court of justice. That would allow us to hold joint negotiations with the European Union, as has seemed feasible since its Council's Corfu meeting, and with the signatories of the North American Free Trade Agreement. The summit of American nations convened in Miami by President Clinton will be an event of great significance for relations in this hemisphere in our common search for ever greater understanding among countries of this continent on political, economic and trade matters. At the subregional level, only a few weeks ago we were able to set in motion the first of 20 turbines of the huge Yacyreta hydroelectric dam, built jointly by Paraguay and Argentina. The Government of Paraguay has worked hard to develop ties with the outside world in order to break out of the isolation arising from its landlocked condition and, until 1989, its deliberate marginalization by an authoritarian Government. In bilateral terms, though it may seem redundant to say this, it is appropriate to recall that Paraguay benefits from a vast hydroelectric capacity already in place: the Itaipu station, shared with Brazil, with an output of 12.6 million kilowatts; and that at Yacyreta, shared with Argentina, with an output of some 4 million kilowatts. There is therefore no question but that Paraguay is now, and will remain, an ideal place for major foreign and domestic investment and for implementing a policy of industrialization, based on our abundant, low-cost energy. It must be remembered, however, that Paraguay suffers a structural limitation that would appear to limit its development potential: its lack of a seaboard. We wish to turn this handicap, which has had a very negative impact on Paraguay in the past, into an advantage. I refer to the fact that Paraguay, being at the center of MERCOSUR, can act as a hinge or pivot par excellence, together with Bolivia, between MERCOSUR and the Andean Common Market. At the regional, Latin American level, I wish to refer first to Paraguay's involvement in the Fourth Ibero- American Summit of Pleads of State and Government. The presence of our entire Ibero-American community, together with Spain and Portugal, strengthened us all, because of the cultural, historical, political and other ties that bind us closely. I should like to stress that Paraguay regards this conference as an essential link in its ties with the European Union and as a major forum with great potential. Another important event this year, again at the regional level, was the Eighth Conference of Presidents and Heads of Government of the Rio Group, which ended a few weeks ago. Paraguay fully endorsed the Declaration of the Rio Group, particularly with regard to the situations in Haiti and Cuba and the problem of drug-trafficking. Paraguay actively participated in producing the declaration in regard to the fraternal Republic of Cuba, which expresses the strong hope that it will introduce significant political and economic reforms in accordance with the people's will, and stating that we respect the self-determination of peoples and the principle of non-intervention. Paraguay lent its fullest support to the Rio Group's decisions, including its declaration on lifting the embargo against Cuba. With regard to the new post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Paraguay wishes to state that his great efforts with regard to individual rights must be complemented by the promotion of social and collective human rights. We have throughout fully endorsed the principle of the peaceful resolution of international conflicts, including the case of Haiti. In this, Paraguay is strengthened by its traditional commitment to peace. In 1923 we contributed to international law for the Americas with the Gondra Treaty of conciliation and arbitration, which has become one of the pillars of Latin America's juridical system. Along these lines of thought and practice, Paraguay enthusiastically welcomes the recent progress in connection with the United Nations Decade of International Law. Paraguay supports the codification of this branch of law; it will be one of the greatest achievements of the United Nations. In this connection, Paraguay has signed and ratified the main agreements that constitute the legal structure created through the United Nations. Paraguay is keenly following and promoting mankind's urgent demand for international cooperation for development. For it is just as important to build peace through development as to maintain it through law. Here I want once more publicly to express our deep thanks to the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), whose timely and effective work we have seen at first hand. We also acknowledge the fundamental importance of the development work of the World Bank, the Inter-American Bank and the International Monetary Fund. We hail the Secretary-General's recent decision to seek better coordination within the United Nations system on technical cooperation and to make the Administrator of UNDP fully responsible for coordination system wide, including with the regional commissions and all other program. From this decision the United Nations will gain in efficiency and in the impact of its world-wide activities. Paraguay also backs the entire process for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade and the opening of negotiations on international economic cooperation for development, which appears on the agenda of the General Assembly. Yet, in a spirit of honor and fraternity, I wish to repeat what I said here in New York at the June 1994 session of the Economic and Social Council - namely, that: 'We feel that the distribution of funds for United Nations programs and projects world wide is imbalanced; as Latin Americans, we believe that the proportion allocated to our region, by UNDP for example, is unfair: only 8.66 per cent is allocated for programs in Latin American countries, while other regions are allocated 50.42 per cent and 40.67 per cent respectively'. UNDP contributes only 17 per cent to Paraguay's program; Paraguay pays the rest. But we appreciate and wish to continue to count on UNDP’s support. Paraguay looks forward with keen interest and commitment to the World Summit for Social Development, to be held at Copenhagen. We are preparing to participate in that conference and have high expectations about the positive results it can achieve. We have promised that the President of the Republic of Paraguay will attend that great event. Paraguay is so enthusiastic about the conference because the three basic items on its agenda are very closely connected with today's social problems: social integration, particularly of the most marginalized and disadvantaged groups; relief and reduction of poverty; and an increase in productive employment. As the draft agenda points out, all of this must be in the context of a propitious economic environment - and, we would add, with international cooperation. Here, Paraguay cannot fail to note that a characteristic of our times is economic growth without job-creation, a situation that must be corrected, since one of today's problems is indeed unemployment. Paraguay earnestly supports ongoing efforts, will support future efforts, developed by the United Nations in all areas of disarmament: nuclear, chemical and others. The Assembly should know that in the area of social development Paraguay has established a special commission to prepare for the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held at Beijing. The commission brings together State and private bodies, which are drafting a final report on the situation of women in Paraguay. As a full member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), Paraguay hopes that the results of the Uruguay Round will have beneficial effects for us. We are convinced that the Uruguay Round is the beginning of a process of downscaling policies of subsidy and protectionism. Paraguay confidently looks forward to the follow-up to GATT and to the work of its complementary successor body, the World Trade Organization. Paraguay fully shares in the entire international community's anguish at drug trafficking, and at the evil effects of that phenomenon. Notwithstanding our meager resources, we are doing whatever is necessary to root it out wherever it is hiding, and to fight it head on. But, with the strength derived from reason, Paraguay affirms that the consumer countries, transit countries and producer countries alike must undertake an equal commitment to adopting vigorous measures. Unilateral efforts, however vigorous, to combat drug production and trafficking can never be successful without gradual shrinkage of the markets that give rise to production and trafficking in the first place. Linked with this universal scourge, which we condemn with all our strength and conviction, is the phenomenon of corruption, a human failing that is seen in varying degrees in all four comers of the Earth. Corruption spreads its tentacles as a reflection of a civilization that is prodigious in economic, financial, scientific, technical and industrial terms but is, we must admit, often found wanting in the firm ethical underpinnings and the genuine human values that strengthen and give vitality to a culture. Paraguay is following with great attention all United Nations efforts with respect to agenda item 142, 'Measures to eliminate international terrorism'. Recent grave events in certain parts of the world, indeed on our own continent, clearly show that the international community needs a new approach, through well-coordinated action, to overcoming this serious problem, which, as we know, sometimes links drug-trafficking mafias with terrorism. On the question of equitable representation on and an increase in the membership of the Security Council, Paraguay believes that in today's changing world we must attune the Organization to the requirements of the times and current circumstances. Hence, my country believes it just to democratize the representation of States on the Security Council, and for the Council's decision-making to be transparent. The world situation has changed, and the United Nations must adapt to those changes. We repeat what we said at the last meeting of the Rio Group - namely, that 'because of its legal tradition and its contribution to the cause of peace, the Latin American and Caribbean region must be considered in any expansion of the Security Council'. Paraguay also firmly supports parallel efforts to revitalize the functioning of the General Assembly. I want to mention and to highlight our great satisfaction at the obvious, sustained advance of democracy in Latin America, and at the consolidation of the various processes that are under way. We should like to reaffirm that the United Nations must continue to apply the principle of universality, making room within its ranks for all peace-loving States that meet the requirements as set forth in the Charter and that are prepared to honor its principles and purposes. We believe that the entry of the Republic of China as an independent country should be considered, along with the case of any other State that meets the conditions I have just mentioned. I should like officially to declare that, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, Paraguay pledges even now to have its President take part personally in the session of the Assembly. The President of our Republic will make the voice of my homeland heard on that most welcome occasion. Meanwhile, my country has established an ad hoc commission on the commemoration of that major event. The environment, the subject of the magnificent 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, is a matter of the greatest concern to Paraguay, which is prepared to support any and all initiatives aimed at preserving the environment through sustainable development, as well as to enact any appropriate measures that do not undermine economic growth. By the same token, Paraguay declares its deep concern at the situation affecting the Pilcomayo River, which is an international waterway inasmuch as its source is in Bolivia and it forms the border between Argentina and Paraguay. We are now facing a major environmental problem since that international river springs from the mountains and is now growing shallower in its course because of sedimentation build-up. Moreover, the Pilcomayo, owing to works undertaken on Argentine territory, has had some 70 per cent of its volume absorbed in the territory of our neighbor. These facilities are doing a great deal of damage to the Chaco region of Paraguay, especially to its livestock and to the population. Paraguay hopes that matters will return to normal, that is, that the course of the Pilcomayo River will resume its balance, irrigating both border areas in an equitable way. We fully trust that we will manage to reach complete agreement with the Republic of Argentina to restore this balance at the earliest possible time. To that end, we will have to go to the very source of the Pilcomayo to seek a rational and comprehensive solution which, inevitably, will require a trilateral agreement in the form of a law governing the confluence of interests of Bolivia, Argentina and Paraguay in respect of the river's course. As Paraguay is a land-locked country, it has an especially keen interest in the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which our country ratified as early as 1986. The provisions of the Convention allow for the mitigation of disadvantages for those States that have no direct access to the sea and, for Paraguay, this will open up the possibility of sharing in the wealth of the deep seabed, or 'Zone', which the Convention calls the common heritage of mankind. We view with optimism the entry into force of that Convention on 16 November this year. In the same context, Paraguay has signed the Agreement amending the Convention. All developing countries aspire to sharing in the scientific and technological progress of the modem world. It seems to me that, together with the other measures the United Nations has already taken or is preparing to take, serious thought should be given to creating a global fund for scientific and technological development that would deepen the relationship between the major research centers in developed countries and the universities and research centers in developing countries. I should like to express Paraguay's deep satisfaction at the demise of the apartheid regime in the Republic of South Africa and at the observance of human rights for all the ethnic communities of the country. Paraguay has not forgotten the sister nations in Africa, which are striving to overcome immense difficulties in their quest for sustainable development and which deserve wide international support. Paraguay is similarly disposed towards the sister Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with which we enjoy fraternal ties. We wish its people peace and brotherhood, and will strive to commit the United Nations towards that end. We are very pleased to congratulate the State of Israel, the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Kingdom of Jordan on their having strengthened the foundations of fraternal and constructive coexistence in the region, initiated in the agreements between Israel and Egypt. We trust that, given the help of the United Nations and of other major actors, the peace and security process in that part of the world will make steady progress, with the cooperation of other major countries in the region itself. I should like to voice a few thoughts with regard to the recent Conference on Population and Development in Cairo. Paraguay joined in the Conference Declaration and Program of Action, while clearly and explicitly placing on record its demand for the defense of life and agreeing, in broad terms, with consensual and voluntary family planning. For that reason, Paraguay lodged two reservations similar to those expressed by other countries that share our view. As I bring my statement to a close, allow me to voice a personal reflection that arises from my many years in international life. I have been active in diplomacy since 1936. Apart from some time spent in academia, I have served my country or the United Nations. I lived through the beginning and the end of the Second World War. My generation was indeed moved when the United Nations Charter was signed. We were filled with hope, and the world seemed to be on the right path in reordering its affairs. We have traveled a long way since then, but we remain all the more convinced of the crucial need for this world Organization. I have personally known each one of the Secretaries- General of our Organization. I have worked closely with a number of them and shared their problems, their fears and their concerns as we struggled for a more just world. It has been a privilege to be both a United Nations official and a diplomat accredited to this Organization. Now, in my capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I feel I have been granted an opportunity to renew the commitment of my nation and my own personal commitment. That commitment is genuine and unadulterated support for the effort to keep the peace through law and to build it through development. The United Nations ideal today compels us to adopt a new way of thinking and living. Indeed, we are not merely representatives of sovereign States or members of a world Organization. We are protagonists and agents who share the same planet, which is in many respects both very similar and very different. We have to show greater solidarity and regain our universal vision. As human beings, we all have an interest in whatever makes us more human, in all senses of the term. The vital force that springs from this vision helps us in our mission of saving our common home, the Earth. Mankind and the Earth: therein lies the key motivation for our commitment and for our endeavors, beneath the majestic gaze of the Creator. It is a special pleasure for me to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, on his unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. We are confident that under his able leadership the deliberations of this session will come to a fruitful conclusion. My delegation extends its full support to him in carrying out his important duties. I should also like to express my delegation’s appreciation to His Excellency Ambassador Samuel R. Insanally, the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Guyana to the United Nations, for successfully presiding over the General Assembly during its forty- eighth session. I also take this opportunity to express my admiration to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the dedication, commitment and insight with which he has been serving the United Nations. Since the end of the cold war the world community has faced many developments, both encouraging and disturbing. As a Vice-Chairman of the Special Committee against Apartheid — now dissolved — Nepal feels particularly happy about the end of the apartheid regime in South Africa. As President Mandela said in his speech earlier in this session, it was one of the ironies of our age that it was only so late in the twentieth century that such a regime came to an end. The United Nations role in the establishment of a united democratic and non-racist South Africa has been gratifying to all of us. The end of apartheid represents progress on the part of mankind in its history of civilization. The statesmanship of President Mandela can be a source of inspiration for those who are in search of freedom, peace and justice elsewhere in the world. Nepal also welcomes the progress in the Middle East peace process and looks forward to the establishment of comprehensive peace in the region. We hope that such achievements will inspire peoples in conflict with each other elsewhere to end their hostilities, and to start similar peace processes. There are also disturbing areas of conflict. The Nepalese people are grieved at the enormous loss of life and the extensive material devastation in Rwanda. It is our hope that with the active support of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in conflict resolution, the United Nations peace-keeping efforts will facilitate the process of restoring normalcy and a peaceful civil society in Rwanda. Nepal also appreciates the role played by the OAU in Burundi in terms of conflict prevention, management and resolution. We hope that the OAU mechanism will be applied effectively to other troubled parts of the region such as Somalia, Angola and Liberia, in order to restore normalcy. Nepal is also deeply distressed by the tragedy which, despite the Security Council’s resolutions, continues 21 unabated in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We would like to urge all the parties concerned to seek peace through dialogue and negotiation rather than through violence. Nepal also looks forward to an early restoration of the democratically elected Government in Haiti, which alone can ensure full respect for human rights in that country. We are meeting on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, which will be a time for us to reflect on the past five decades and plan for the next 50 years. Born as a result of the Second World War, the United Nations has over the past five decades ceaselessly deployed efforts to prevent a third world war. Disarmament, especially nuclear disarmament, has therefore been one of its major concerns. The United Nations also made constant efforts to bring peace to the Middle East and to put an end to apartheid in South Africa, and it remained engaged in many other areas of conflict. However, the last five decades, characterized by the cold war, almost paralysed the United Nations. The East-West divide seriously hampered the United Nations efforts in most conflict situations. A number of important agreements were reached and many peace negotiations were held outside the United Nations. Nevertheless, those achievements were in conformity with the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations, and the United Nations provided an important global forum for discussion, which helped defuse major global catastrophes. Thus, in the ultimate analysis, the United Nations has undoubtedly made significant contributions to international relations. Moreover, the United Nations and its specialized agencies and other related bodies, such as the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Population Fund, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and many others, have been engaged in improving social and economic conditions around the world. Since the cold war, whose enormous cost adversely affected the lives of billions of people, is now over, we at the United Nations, standing — as it were — at the crossroads of history, can now define the Organization’s role and work for the next 50 years. With such rapid changes taking place in international relations, particularly in recent years, the United Nations needs to be restructured and revitalized. The restructuring of the Security Council has assumed a particular urgency. Nepal strongly supports an increase in the membership of the Council to reflect, not only the increase in the general membership of the United Nations, but also the reality of the present world. A review of the Council’s membership has also to take into account the contributions of Member States to the maintenance of international peace and security. We attach a high priority to greater transparency and openness in the Council’s work, and also attach great importance to the principle of equitable representation, which would give all United Nations Members — large or small, rich or poor, powerful or weak — a reasonable opportunity to contribute to the work of the Council. We hope that the work of the Open-ended Working Group on the Security Council and related issues will be fruitful in due time. Our delegation considers that the reform and expansion of the Security Council should also include measures geared to reforming its working methods and procedures. In addition, there is a need to enhance the relationship between the Security Council and the General Assembly, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. The changed context of international relations and the United Nations preoccupation with peace-keeping operations should not be allowed to deflect attention from efforts to achieve general and complete disarmament under effective international control. Rather, the propitious climate now prevailing calls for strengthening the role of the United Nations in arms control and disarmament. In this context, I wish to recall the unanimous political support expressed by the General Assembly at its last session for the decision of the Conference on Disarmament to give to its Ad Hoc Committee on a Nuclear Test Ban a mandate to negotiate such a ban. To this end, the Non-Aligned Movement, of which Nepal is a founding member, has called for a special session of the United Nations General Assembly on disarmament in order to undertake a comprehensive assessment of progress towards global disarmament. Like the rest of the international community, Nepal looks forward to the early conclusion of a comprehensive treaty prohibiting nuclear tests in all atmospheres. A non- discriminatory and effectively verifiable test-ban treaty would have a positive impact on the success of the Conference on the review and extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which is due to be held in 1995. In addition to pursuing confidence-building measures, the United Nations role in arms control and disarmament needs to be effectively strengthened. In this 22 context, the United Nations Regional Centres for Peace and Disarmament can play an important role, as they provide much-needed forums for the exchange of views. The United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific has already held several meetings to promote such a process of dialogue and interaction. Nepal is firm in its conviction that peace-keeping operations, though extremely important, especially in this post-cold-war period, are no substitute for the peaceful resolution of conflicts through political dialogue and mediation. Application of Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations in the restoration and maintenance of international peace and security should be invoked by the Security Council only as a last resort, fully respecting the principles of impartiality and non-selectivity. Nepal has supported fully the Secretary-General’s initiative in expanding preventive diplomacy and conflict resolution. We have consistently committed our troops to the peace- keeping operations undertaken by the United Nations through the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon and the United Nations Protection Force. Besides serving in Cambodia during the critical stage of democratic elections there, Nepal has also sent civilian police monitors for electoral assistance in Mozambique. Nepal has also sent troops to Somalia, despite the heavy loss of life and casualties suffered by our young men. We would like to pay tribute to those Nepalese soldiers and to the others who gave their lives in the relentless pursuit of international peace and security. Prime Minister Giri ja Prasad Koirala, in a recent statement to the roundtable on United Nations peace-keeping operations in Kathmandu, stated: “While the Government (of Nepal) has raised its voice at the United Nations and in appropriate international forums for more effective mechanisms for the safety and protection of our personnel, the Government reaffirms its commitment to continue to participate in such operations with a sense of responsibility and solemn obligation.” Since peace-keeping operations have become more complicated and more expensive in recent years, there is greater urgency to make those operations cost-effective and efficient. Peace-keeping contributions must be paid in full and on time so that the troop — contributing countries may be in a better position to maintain the most critical element in peace-keeping operations — the troops. My Government holds the firm view that the death and disability compensation to all troops should he based on equity. We hope to review the current guidelines on this matter in order to arrive at a standard compensation package applicable to all. Every peace-keeping operation should be devised with a clear mandate, a realistic time frame and a correct assessment of the situation. Furthermore, we would like to reiterate that timely consultations with troop- contributing countries are essential elements for the enhancement of the peace-keeping capability of the United Nations. Nepal welcomes the Secretary-General’s initiative on stand-by arrangements for peace-keeping. We are studying the proposal seriously, especially in view of current events that highlight the need for the establishment of such an arrangement. Since the threat to security lies, inter alia, in non-military sources such as the lack of economic and social development, Nepal stresses the need for timely implementation of Agenda 21 for ensuring the sustainability of the planet for present and future generations. The Commission on Sustainable Development has made a good start. It must not be allowed to falter or to be turned into a discussion forum only. The Commission should build a bridge between the North and the South to enable the developing countries to follow the path of sustainable development. By providing additional financial resources and transferring environmentally sound technology to developing countries, the international community can surely reach the goals set in Agenda 21. In our view, the level of consumption and wastage in most industrialized countries also needs to be moderated if we are to achieve the goals of sustainable development. The success of population and socio-economic development programmes hinges on the full empowerment of women. The focus given to the empowerment of women in decision-making, especially in planning the size of a family, at the recent International Conference on Population and Development is a mater of satisfaction to my delegation. However, the success of the Plan of Action as adopted requires increased financial resources. The developing countries, despite their severe resource constraints, have been committing significant amounts in population activities at the cost of other important areas that are required for economic growth and development. That important conference will be followed by the World Summit for Social Development, the fourth World Conference on Women and the 1996 United Nations 23 Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II). This year alone, we have participated in many important conferences: on natural disaster reduction, on the sustainable development of small island States, on combating desertification and drought, and on population and development. A question remains outstanding: that of the availability of the critical resources for the successful implementation of the recommendations of these conferences. The developing countries find themselves in an exasperating situation, trying to cope with their responsibilities, as outlined in previous agreements and resolutions, without the necessary actions from the industrialized countries. Nepal fully shares the Secretary-General’s view that an alternative to the United Nations in the field of development simply does not exist, especially in the light of the new vision of development as inextricably linked with peace and security. We reiterate our view that there must be close cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions. The main objectives of the proposed agenda for development should he directed towards ensuring successful implementation of existing programmes for the alleviation of poverty. The agenda should be an instrument that looks after the most vulnerable and the weakest nations of the world. The conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the signing of the agreements at Marrakesh undoubtedly constitute a historic breakthrough in the international trade regime. The window of opportunity is now open for many developing countries to enhance their trade and development. Once again, the least developed countries will be left out, in spite of this tremendous opportunity now available to many. The lack of basic physical infrastructure and the absence of a manufacturing base will prevent the least developed countries from taking advantage of this new opportunity. The least developed countries, including my own country, have suffered for decades. These handicaps, however, have not deterred us from our determination to cooperate fully with the international community by instituting structural adjustment programmes and economic liberalization policies, including privatization. Structural adjustment programmes lacking due consideration for social safety nets have pushed a large sector of the world’s population towards more misery and discontent. Economic liberalization programmes without adequate institutional and organizational set-ups have not yielded the desired results in many countries. The major purpose of the privatization programmes undertaken by many developing countries — the efficient and productive use of resources — has yet to be fulfilled. At the same time, it may be appreciated that these inadequate measures, resulting in higher inflation, a distorted market system and increasing unemployment, may result in greater social tension. We are happy to note that in the context of the follow-up to the Vienna Declaration and Plan of Action, an open-ended Working Group of the Third Committee has been established; we hope it will review the mandates of existing human rights machinery, taking into account the balanced emphasis between civil, political, cultural, economic and social rights, as well as improving human rights on the basis of the principles of impartiality, objectivity and non-selectivity. Violation or suppression of human rights within a nation’s boundary have consequences outside its boundaries as well. People unable to live in conditions where human rights are suppressed are forced to flee their own homelands and take refuge elsewhere. United Nations agencies such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the World Food Programme, and international and non-governmental humanitarian organizations, are well aware of this. My delegation would like to commend the work of these United Nations agencies. We also feel that the agencies must be mandated to serve all the people in such difficult situations. The Constitution of Nepal enshrines the principle of universal human rights. We believe that the right to development is an integral part of human rights. Nepal is now party to 14 international human rights instruments, including all the major Conventions and Covenants. A national action plan on human rights is being prepared in line with the final document of the Vienna Conference on Human Rights. Nepal is also consolidating the multi-party democratic system that was restored by the people through a popular movement in 1990. Nepal participated actively in the Second International Conference of New or Restored Democracies, at Managua, Nicaragua, in July this year. The Conference provided us with an opportunity to share each other’s experience of nascent democracy. In November this year the people of Nepal are participating in our second general elections on the basis of adult franchise. We are confident that this exercise in democracy will give an impetus to the long- term economic development of our country. 24 The Charter of the United Nations captures the highest ideals of mankind. However, much remains to be done to put those ideals into practice. We look forward to the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations as the occasion to work for instituting dynamism and efficiency in the United Nations. My delegation is fully confident that our vision of the United Nations as a symbol of peace, security, human rights and development will be realized if Member States demonstrate the political will and provide the necessary financial and material support to the Organization. I wish to join other speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your experience in international affairs, as well as your proven diplomatic skills, provide the assurance of a successful conclusion of our deliberations. At the same time, I wish to express our gratitude and sincere appreciation to His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Rudolph Insanally, for the distinguished manner in which he presided over this historic Assembly during a particularly challenging forty-eighth session, ably representing not only his country, Guyana, but the entire 7 Latin American and Caribbean region. We commend him for his performance. Our Secretary-General continues his outstanding stewardship of the United Nations during these critical times, when this world body is increasingly being called upon to respond to crises of staggering dimensions. The Bahamas appreciates his tireless efforts. Anniversaries are times of celebration and times of reflection. As this world assembly approaches its fiftieth birthday, it is wholly appropriate that we should seek to evaluate our record. I believe that we can all agree that in our efforts to guide international relations in the 50 years since the end of the Second World War, there have been both successes and failures. We must surely build on the successes and redirect our energies to effectively reduce the number of failures. The credible success of this world Organization and its specialized agencies in measurably improving the health, literacy and education standards of the world’s poor is no mean achievement. So also has been the success of this body in seeking to ensure the environmental integrity of the planet, in galvanizing the resources of the world to fight the illicit drug traffic, and in peacefully resolving disputes. We can all be justly satisfied that the persistence of this Assembly played a pivotal role in bringing to an end the racist Government in South Africa. The victory of non- racial democracy in that torn land must give us hope even in the face of the most intractable problems. The Bahamas joins other Members in welcoming South Africa back into the fold of the General Assembly. The Bahamas fully supports the noble cause of the Government of South Africa as it begins the task of reconciliation and reconstruction. President Nelson Mandela and the people of South Africa can be fully assured of my Government’s hand of friendship. Victory in South Africa allowed us to dare to hope for an opening in Haiti. This Assembly knows very well the long history of abuse of that poor Caribbean nation — a land in which the apartheid of wealth has flourished in a destitute country. For many generations now, Haitian nationals have felt compelled to abandon their homes, frequently in unseaworthy boats, in search of personal dignity and of economic and political liberty. My country has frequently been their first safe harbour, and, while proud of our record of assistance, we have been and remain ill-equipped to offer such refuge. Members are aware of the tremendous burden that my country has had to bear in this regard. This refuge has been provided by the Bahamas in spite of the absence of either recognition or assistance from the international community. To say that our education, health and welfare resources have been stretched beyond capacity in our small island developing country is to greatly understate the situation. When we add the extra costs attributable to the necessary marine patrols associated with the monitoring of undocumented persons, the full burden created in the Bahamas by Haitian nationals fleeing their homes begins to become apparent. Hence, the recognition by this body of the absolute necessity for the world community to forcibly respond to the brutality of the military dictatorship in Haiti is very much appreciated. The support given to the early initiative led by the Caribbean Community to force a resolution of the crisis in Haiti has already borne fruit, and we commend the United States of America for its leadership in this important initiative. We therefore join in welcoming the formation of the multinational force authorized by the Security Council to take all necessary action to restore the democratically elected government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Notwithstanding the tremendous costs that in recent years have accrued to the Bahamas as a result of developments in Haiti, we have also agreed to lend manpower support to that force. Today’s announcement that the coup leaders have resigned and will be leaving the country now paves the way for the desired return of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide later this week. It is especially important that the international community now dedicate sufficient funding and expertise to the economic reconstruction of Haiti to achieve democracy in that land. It must continue to do so even today as Haitians await the announced departure of the feared military from leadership and the return of their elected President. We who promote and encourage the adoption of democratic forms of government must also accept a degree of responsibility to service that democracy, especially in its infancy. The infant democracy that is struggling to be born in Haiti will 8 surely die unless it receives the succour and support of the international community. Since the Second World War, the world community has addressed the plight of political refugees. The increased demand to assist persons fleeing political persecution is demonstrated in the ethnic purges and warfare in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The dramatic exodus, during the first half of this year, of hundreds of thousands of persons across the seas on unseaworthy craft or down long roads across borders dramatically brought to the attention of the world community the plight of undocumented persons seeking shelter outside of their homelands. The burden borne by the Bahamas as a result of the presence of large numbers of undocumented Haitians is now compounded by the more recent arrival of hundreds of Cubans seeking to enter the United States of America. The Bahamas Government is encouraged by recent efforts by both the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba to address this perennial problem of Cuban migrants. The gravity of the Haitian crisis, the inhumanity of the genocide in Bosnia, the cruelty of the murders in Rwanda and the ongoing war in Angola all are clarion calls to our Organization and to the world that we must desist from tardy, piecemeal approaches and address in a timely and comprehensive manner not only the effects but the very root causes of these situations. Not least among these is economics, evidenced by a crisis in development. Despair at the hopeless socio- economic conditions of one’s daily life has given rise, in those so affected, to a basic pessimism and to the willingness to risk even one’s life for changed circumstances. Where basic needs are unmet and survival is in jeopardy, there is little stake in the future and little reason to consider the sustainability of one’s actions. The real threat to our future security is therefore no longer military aggression but deteriorating economic conditions. The alleviation of widespread poverty while managing finite resources in the face of spiralling population growth will be among the major challenges of the twenty-first century. The Bahamas, therefore, looks forward to the Secretary-General’s revised “Agenda for Development”, hopeful that it will serve as an effective guideline for the creation and implementation of measures commensurate with the legitimate aspirations of Member States. We must not lose ground in this session by becoming submerged in attempts to redefine development. We must, rather, focus on the different levels of development that exist in our several countries. We must learn their effects and find solutions for narrowing obvious disparities. These solutions must include programmes specially suited to the differing levels of development of Member States. We must therefore ensure that our quest for sustainable development is people-centred. We must consider sustainable human development with a focus on justice, equality and democratic freedom as well as on material well-being that incorporates equal opportunity for all. Inequity engenders violence, and violence fragments society. The Bahamas, in spite of its apparent growth and strong economic indicators, is still only a developing nation. However, unlike many other developing nations, the Bahamas is continually frustrated in its efforts to secure international resources and concessionary financing from multilateral institutions because of its reputed level of per capita gross national product. As a small archipelagic country of a mere 260,000 people scattered over 100,000 square miles, burdened by the cost of transportation and infrastructure replication, and with a very small minority of our residents in an extremely high income bracket whilst the overwhelming majority of the population is at the opposite end of the economic scale, we are advocating that this grossly misleading per capita criterion for gross national product should not be the only basis upon which resources and assistance are allocated to developing countries, such as the Bahamas. It is the view of the Bahamas that the entire system for determining eligibility for development assistance should be comprehensively reviewed, as it is clear that special consideration ought to be given to countries like the Bahamas, with peculiar imbalances and vulnerabilities. For its part, the Bahamas is engaged in a process of refining its development indicators in an attempt to ensure that data provided to international institutions are truly reflective of our economic-development reality. We expect that the data so provided will also have an impact upon our budgetary assessments. This comprehensive review, we believe, must include consideration of the vulnerability index identified in the Programme of Action of the Global Conference on Small Island Developing States as the direction to be followed in the development of a measurement of the 9 ecological fragility and economic vulnerability of small island developing States. In this connection, I would remind the Assembly of an important message which was reinforced by the recent Conference on Small Island Developing States, that is, that unless the peculiar difficulties of these States are properly addressed, those States will not have the wherewithal to proceed on a path to sustainable development. The marine environment presents both an opportunity and a constraint with respect to the sustainable development and security of any island State. As a maritime nation, the Bahamas attaches tremendous importance to the Convention, which has resulted in the creation of a new legal regime for the oceans. Among its new achievements are the recognition of the legal status of archipelagos, the 12-mile territorial sea, transit passage, the exclusive economic zone, and the protection and preservation of the marine environment and the resources of the deep seabed as the common-heritage of mankind. The Bahamas was particularly pleased to join with other Member States in signing the agreement on seabed mining in July of this year, as that agreement modifies provisions that had prevented many States from becoming parties to the Convention. The long awaited entry into force of the Convention is therefore of extreme importance, as it provides a boost to our efforts to curb infringement on both our national security and our national resources. While the socio-economic health of the world still presents challenges for the Organization, we have scored some political successes in the recent past. These successes include, of course, the peace accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization signed in September of last year, which led to self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho for the Palestinian people, and the signing of the Washington Declaration between Israel and Jordan last July. We also applaud and encourage the dialogue now under way between Israel and Syria. In spite of those successes, peace-keeping still occupies an important place in our activities. However, we must ensure that peace-keeping operations are not conducted at the expense of other activities which are equally important, such as the development programmes of the United Nations. After all, development is a prerequisite for peace. For small countries with limited resources, such as the Bahamas, a major justification for membership in international organizations is the enhancement of national capacity. It is therefore the duty of the United Nations to facilitate the efforts of small countries to arrive at just and equitably sound solutions to differences within the international society of States, especially when they involve political and economic giants. It is from this perspective that the Bahamas supports the efforts of the Republic of China to entreat the Organization to examine the merits of establishing an ad hoc committee to analyse comprehensively the current implications and future ramifications of the preclusion of the 21 million people in the Republic of China from contributing to, and availing themselves of, all the benefits deriving from membership in the United Nations and its affiliated agencies. Our Organization is expected to reflect universality and to demonstrate impartiality when forging international agreements for policy commitments, for accessing resources and for action. The Bahamas welcomes the report of the Open- ended Working Group on the question of more equitable representation within the membership of the Security Council. The Group’s work thus far has been positive and constructive, and we trust that the momentum of its discussions will be maintained. The report on the Security Council is of importance to all Member States. As its conclusions affect each Member quite directly, it is essential that the Council should be seen to reflect as accurately as possible the wishes of the entire international community. Accordingly, it is imperative that the composition of a new Security Council properly reflect regional diversity and thereby enhance the legitimacy of the actions of that important United Nations body. We in the Bahamas look with great expectation to the observance of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. The preparatory period for this event is an ideal time for reflection on targets and objectives which have already been set by our Organization, some of which have now been outstanding for many years. Turning fifty is an opportunity for the Organization to regain the confidence of our peoples. It will take hard work and determination to achieve the desired results so that over the next 50 years the United Nations will be known in all societies and across all levels of those societies as the real leader in the fight to bring dignity to mankind. In the words of the great Johann Wolfgang von Goethe: 10 “We must not hope to be mowers And to gather the ripe gold ears Unless we have first been sowers And watered the furrows with tears. “It is not just as we take it, This mystical world of ours; Life’s field will yield as we make it: A harvest of thorns or of flowers.” Mr. President, on behalf of my Government and on my own behalf, I wish to express my sincere congratulations to you on your unanimous election as President of the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. We are delighted to see a son of Africa, a distinguished diplomat from Cote d'Ivoire, a country with which Mozambique entertains friendly relations, presiding over our deliberations. I should like to pledge my delegation's cooperation in the discharge of your duties. I am confident that under your able leadership our deliberations will be successful. I should also like to avail myself of this opportunity to convey through you, Mr. President, my utmost appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally, for the brilliant manner in which he conducted the work of the previous General Assembly session. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, deserves our warmest felicitations for the competent manner in which he has been discharging his duties. The people and the Government of the Republic of Mozambique remain grateful to his untiring efforts and dedication to the cause of peace in my country. Our participation in this forty-ninth session of the General Assembly takes place at a crucial moment for my country. In about three weeks' time the people of Mozambique will cast their ballots in the first multiparty elections scheduled for 27 and 28 October. The electoral campaign was inaugurated on 22 September last. To this end, 14 political parties, including two coalitions, are running for parliament and 12 candidates are contesting the presidential elections. The electoral census shows that more than 6.3 million people of an estimated 7.5 million eligible voters have been registered. Given the existing difficulties deriving from 16 years of armed conflict, we believe the number of registered voters is quite significant and encouraging. A code of conduct aimed at ensuring that the electoral process is carried out harmoniously was signed by presidential candidates before the beginning of the campaign. A similar document was also signed by the 14 contesting political parties. Both codes establish specific rules and guidelines which must be observed during the campaign. In these documents, all parties have, inter alia, pledged to commit themselves to abide by and respect fully the results of the general elections, once they are certified to have been free and fair by the United Nations. The forthcoming multiparty general elections represent the culmination of a long and delicate process of implementation of the General Peace Agreement for Mozambique, signed in Rome in October 1992. The cantonment and demobilization of forces, including the dissolution of the High Command of the former Mozambican Armed Forces, has been concluded. In addition, the Government has transferred all its military assets and infrastructure to the new army. The formation of the agreed 30,000-strong Mozambican Defense Force (FADM) is also under way. However, owing to logistical and material difficulties facing the execution of this commitment, we will have a single army of only about 10,000 men by the time of the elections. My Government appreciates the fact that a mission of the Security Council has recently visited Mozambique to verify on the ground the status of the implementation of the General Peace Agreement and the performance of the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ). We took note with satisfaction of the conclusion arrived at by the mission, according to which conditions exists in Mozambique for the holding of free and fair elections, and that the United Nations will immediately endorse the results of these elections, as soon as they are declared free and fair. My Government attaches great importance to the need for ONUMOZ to certify that the signatories of the Rome Agreement have fully respected their commitments regarding the complete demobilization of their forces, so as to ensure a climate free of fear and intimidation during and after the elections. As we move closer to the final stage of the implementation of the General Peace Agreement, the people of Mozambique look forward to a lasting peace and stability under which national unity will be preserved and national reconstruction will be carried on as a matter of priority for the progress and prosperity of our country. That is why my Government and my party, FRELIMO, believe that the winner of the forthcoming elections should be able to form a government which, taking into account the best interests of the nation, will select men and women - irrespective of their political affiliations - with proven qualities of leadership and with a recognized capacity in the management of government affairs who are dedicated to serving the people and preserving peace and stability in the country. As President Chissano stated about 10 days ago, on the opening day of the electoral campaign, the government that will emerge from the forthcoming elections should be one that brings together all Mozambican citizens - a government that should truly serve the nation. He reiterated that, should he win the election, he would be guided by the ideals of reconciliation, dialogue and tolerance among all Mozambicans. That means that his government would seek permanent dialogue with the opposition in order to achieve consensus on the major issues and policies facing our country. We believe that the winner must commit himself to strengthening institutional mechanisms that can ensure an effective participation by the opposition in the decision-making process, particularly within the framework of the Assembly of the Republic. Every guarantee will be extended to the opposition so as to enable it to play a meaningful and active role in the political life of the country. That is our vision of the post-electoral future in Mozambique, a vision that will give high priority to the issue of unity and reconciliation, peace and stability, and rehabilitation and development in our country. In the meantime, it is our strong belief that the international community should encourage and put pressure on the parties to faithfully implement the Rome Agreement and to pre-empt any move aimed at renegotiating the Agreement or undermining its implementation. Pacta sunt servanda. With the elections less than a month away, it is imperative that the signatories to the General Peace Agreement and the international community as a whole do not lose perspective and depart from the legal and political framework of that important peace-making instrument. If we are to witness a successful outcome of the peace process in Mozambique, it is essential that the signatories of the Rome Agreement respect fully their obligations and refrain from raising issues, conditions or preconditions in the implementation of the Agreement. The international community must therefore exert the necessary positive influence over the parties to abide by their commitments under the Rome Agreement. My Government is determined to fulfil its obligations under the Agreement. In the course of 19 years of independence, FRELIMO and the Government of Mozambique have always respected their commitments, both at home and at the international level. We have successfully established multiparty democracy in Mozambique; we have successfully embarked on economic reforms; and we have successfully concluded the General Peace Agreement. Today, at this critical juncture, we are once again ready to honour our obligations and responsibilities. Mozambique is emerging from 16 years of a devastating conflict that has deeply rent its economic and social fabric. Therefore, apart from the relentless efforts that the Government has been deploying in honouring its obligations within the framework of the General Peace Agreement, our endeavour is also directed towards the monumental task of national reconstruction. This noble task constitutes a basic component of the whole process towards a lasting peace in Mozambique. Our success in national reconstruction will greatly contribute to the political, economic and social stability of the country. The advent of peace in 1992 paved the way for the Government to fully embark upon the implementation of the economic recovery programme that was launched in early 1987. It is due to this undertaking that in 1993 our gross domestic product increased by 5.6 per cent as a result of a significant growth by basic economic sectors: agriculture, 8 per cent; transport and communications, 10 per cent; trade, 17 per cent; and construction, 3 per cent. Likewise, the rate of inflation dropped to 30 per cent in 1993, as compared to 165 per cent in 1987. Economic forecasts show that the conditions are present to reduce even further the inflation rate in the years to come. This is an encouraging trend in the performance of our economy that provides confidence in its continued growth. With regard to investment opportunities, the combination of two years of peace and wide-ranging economic reforms heralds a new era for Mozambican private-sector development. The role of foreign direct investment and other fields of cooperation with the international business community is recognized as being crucial to the success of national reconstruction in Mozambique. Moreover, my Government is engaged in rehabilitating the economic and social infrastructures destroyed by war. The reintegration of demobilized soldiers into civilian life, the resettlement of refugees and displaced persons, and the rehabilitation of socio-economic infrastructures such as roads, bridges, health centres, commercial networks, schools and water supplies are real challenges that will require the special attention of the government that will emerge from the forthcoming elections. In this context, we attach great importance to the ongoing demining process, as it will contribute to the normalization of life throughout the country, particularly to the resumption of agricultural production in the rural areas. This task is both delicate and enormous, bearing in mind the nature of the conflict that ravaged Mozambique and given the size of the territory. We therefore wish to reiterate our appeal to the international community to continue, in the light of General Assembly resolution 48/7 of 19 October 1993, to render its generous assistance in the form of financial, material, technical support and needed expertise for the mine-clearance programme in Mozambique. My delegation welcomes the call for a moratorium on export of land-mines and endorses the appeal contained in the 1994 report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization for the international community to take appropriate measures to limit the production, use and sale of anti-personnel land-mines with a view to achieving their complete ban. Since the last session of the General Assembly, the southern African region has witnessed an unprecedented historical event. My delegation wishes to join the previous speakers in welcoming a free and democratic South Africa back into the family of nations. With the presence of President Mandela in this Assembly Hall this morning, we honour the people of South Africa, all the men and women in southern Africa, and people all over the world who have contributed to the struggle for the elimination of the abominable system of apartheid. The accession to power of a democratically elected Government in South Africa represents the dawning of a new era not only in that sister country but also in the African continent in general. It is our firm expectation to see all the people of South Africa, regardless of their colour or social background, learn how to live together in harmony. The new South Africa represents the end of the policy of destabilization in southern Africa and the setting up of a peaceful environment at the regional level, which will certainly lead to a fruitful cooperation among the States of the region in their quest for progress and economic development. The eradication of the apartheid system in South Africa and the consolidation of multi-party democracy in the countries of the region have paved the way for the establishment of a climate of peace and stability in southern Africa. The countries of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), in building their community, are pursuing their joint efforts towards common regional security by addressing issues of conflict prevention and conflict resolution. The prospects of lasting peace and stability in southern Africa will allow us the opportunity to redouble our efforts within the SADC region in our search for progress. Furthermore, peace and stability in southern Africa will ensure our participation as equal partners in development cooperation with other regional economic groupings. The present session of the General Assembly provides us with an excellent opportunity for a joint assessment of current international political and socio-economic developments. We note with concern that the end of the cold war has not meant the end of armed conflicts around the world. Indeed, armed conflicts continue to proliferate, especially at the regional level, where they constitute a real threat to international peace and security. In this context, my delegation is particularly concerned by the tragedy and untold suffering which are taking place in the African country of Rwanda. Thousands of innocent people have fallen victim to violence, and as a result thousands more have been forced to leave the country, thus sparking another humanitarian crisis in our conflict-torn continent. We in Mozambique, having experienced a long- lasting conflict, wish to appeal to all parties concerned in Rwanda to settle their differences through dialogue. Only dialogue can bring peace and an end to the tragic situation and human suffering in that martyred country. Peace in Angola cannot be delayed any longer. While we appreciate the role played by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, and his recent initiatives to bring about a successful outcome at the Lusaka Talks, we still believe that the United Nations should redouble its efforts aimed at putting pressure on UNITA to respect the Bicesse Accords fully and abide by their letter and spirit. My delegation appeals to UNITA to lay down its weapons and seek to achieve its political objectives through dialogue and national reconciliation as a legalized political party. In the light of Security Council resolutions 864 (1993) of 15 September 1993 and 932 (1994) of 30 June 1994, the United Nations has a moral obligation to exhort UNITA to negotiate with the necessary seriousness, and in good faith, and to cooperate with the Government of Angola on an expeditious conclusion of negotiations under way in Lusaka. We further welcome Security Council resolution 945 (1994) of 29 September 1994 which, inter alia, calls upon both parties to honour the commitments already made by them at the Lusaka Peace Talks and urges them to complete their negotiations as soon as possible and to make every necessary effort to have the Lusaka Agreement formally signed before 31 October 1994. In the Middle East, we note with satisfaction the implementation of the peace accords between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), which have resulted in autonomy for Gaza and Jericho and the return of the PLO leader to his motherland. In the same manner, we believe that the recent Declaration signed by Jordan and Israel is a significant step forward in the relaxation of tensions in the region. The international community should continue to support these developments for the restoration of peace and mutual confidence in the Middle East. We encourage Israel and Syria to continue negotiations in order to conclude an early agreement on issues which for so long have been a source of conflict between the two countries. The question of East Timor continues to be of grave concern to the international community. My Government wishes to express its support for all initiatives for a genuine dialogue conducive to the achievement of self- determination by the people of East Timor. We have been following with keen interest the ongoing debate on the restructuring of the United Nations, in particular the flowing ideas within the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council. We believe that the expansion of the Council must reflect the growing need for justice and a balance of interests among nations and continents, with emphasis on increased permanent membership for developing countries in general and Africa in particular. To this end, we should sofar as possible work during the current session of the General Assembly to achieve consensus on this issue. In our opinion, the adequate representation of developing countries on the Security Council will rectify imbalances deriving from the current composition of this body and ensure its efficiency and legitimacy. Above all, it will confer a democratic nature on the decisions taken by that organ. In this context, my delegation fully subscribes to the African common position on this issue adopted by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) on 29 September. Since last year's debate on this issue, some countries have been singled out as qualifying for additional permanent membership on the Security Council. This year a number of countries have described Brazil as meeting the requirements for permanent membership in the framework of these reforms. My delegation fully shares that view. The presence of the United Nations Operation in Mozambique offers an opportunity to address the issue of peace-keeping operations. As we have stated on several occasions, peace-keeping forces will succeed only if they strictly adhere to the fundamental principles which guide them and scrupulously respect the terms of reference of the mission for which they have been established. It is our considered position that there is no universal formula for the success of each and every peace-keeping mission. In this connection, we feel that, though we may recognize the basic rules that govern peace-keeping activities, it is important to bear in mind specific situations and concrete agreements that have to be fully observed in each case. In other words, we cannot prescribe the same medicine for every kind of disease. This could be a prescription for death rather than for recovery, a recipe for disaster rather than for success. We believe that it is extremely important for the United Nations always to take into account the need to safeguard the sovereignty of the State concerned. Where there is a Government, even with weak institutions, peace-keeping missions should work in close cooperation and consultation with the local authorities and respect and strengthen those institutions, rather than try to weaken or undermine them. The International Conference on Population and Development held in Cairo last month was a landmark in the efforts to control world-wide population growth in favour of sustainable development. The Programme of Action adopted by the Conference responds to the challenges that lie ahead of us. Similarly, the World Summit for Social Development, scheduled to take place in Copenhagen in March 1995, will offer an opportunity to the nations of the world to arrive at common ground on today's pressing issues, such as the social integration of disadvantaged and marginalized segments of the population and the eradication of poverty, especially in the developing countries. The Summit should also emphasize the need to improve the quality of life as an integrated approach to sustainable development, by incorporating health concerns in developmental strategies. Similarly, we look forward to the holding of the World Conference on Women, in Beijing in September next year. It is our expectation that the Beijing Conference will culminate in the adoption of comprehensive strategies and policies in order to address pressing issues affecting women world wide. It is regrettable to note that, four years after the holding of the World Summit for Children, the situation of children world-wide continues to be deplorable and a matter of concern. Amongst them, children in conflict situations deserve our special attention. My country is faced with an adverse environment for children, a legacy of 16 years of devastating war, which, among other things, broke up entire families and left many children orphans or deeply traumatized and without any kind of comfort or family warmth. We therefore welcome resolution 48/157 of 20 December 1993 which, inter alia, requested the Secretary-General to appoint an expert to undertake a comprehensive study of the question of the protection of children affected by armed conflicts. We in Mozambique feel honoured by the Secretary-General's recent nomination of Mrs. Graga Machel to coordinate a working group on such a study. Thirty years have now elapsed since Mozambique embarked on the search for independence and peace. It has been a long and difficult journey. Today we are at a crucial stage in the implementation of the General Peace Agreement for Mozambique and of the holding of multiparty general elections. On behalf of my Government, I would like to seize this occasion to reiterate our deepest appreciation to the international community for the solidarity and support it has extended to our people. It is our firm belief that we will continue to enjoy this support for the consolidation of peace, progress and prosperity in our country. May I congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I am convinced that your vast experience and your leadership will contribute greatly to the success of the session. At the same time, I wish to acknowledge the excellent work of your predecessor, Ambassador Samuel R. Insanally of Guyana, during the last session of the General Assembly. I should like also to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedication to the cause of the United Nations. The evolution of the world scene since the last session confirms that we live in an age of historic transition. The encouraging developments in South Africa and in the Middle East confirm that conventional paradigms of the international system are changing. Nations have become so interdependent that force can no longer act as the final arbiter. In relations between nations, rules, agreements and civilized norms have come into play as much as traditional regulators. Until the modern era we lived in what might be called a Hobbesian world, where conflict, rather than cooperation, was the defining characteristic of relations between nations. Basically, international relations were regulated through the mechanism of the balance of power. Sometimes we had the hegemony of one Power, and sometimes several Powers acting in concert, but these were only variations of what was essentially a struggle for power, a struggle for domination. Then, in the early part of this century, came the Wilsonian vision, which called for a global organization. To this vision we owe the United Nations. After the Second World War - even at the height of the cold war - mankind envisaged a bolder world. The vision of a global welfare was presented, for example, by the Swedish scholar Gunnar Myrdal, who urged us to move 'beyond the welfare state'. Now, at the end of the twentieth century, the demise of the cold war offers us yet another vision of a new world. The old order based on force is losing its grip on international relations. Gone are the days when defects in the balance of power necessarily invited ambition or 20 adventure. The days of expansive and proselytizing ideologies have passed. A new order based on peaceful accord, cooperation and interdependence is emerging. This can best be characterized as a non-zero-sum global society. In today’s world no country can remain unaffected by the havoc of another, whether caused by hunger, tyranny, environmental pollution or the proliferation of weapons. Similarly, every country can benefit from world prosperity, world peace and a cleaner world environment. This new world, if successful in addressing thorny issues such as the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, will allow us to escape from the age-old security dilemma. What can we do to solve such critical impending problems as poverty, pollution, population, national conflicts, oppression and the arms race? Most of all, we need shared values and common purposes. We first need a sound understanding of the nature of these new problems. We must recognize that these are problems that affect us all and require our concerted efforts. In this new era genuine world peace cannot be achieved without our properly addressing the issues of social and economic development. My delegation welcomes the report of the Secretary- General on an agenda for development as a timely and appropriate initiative. His report has moved the United Nations to the foreground of discussions on development. Given the importance of the political will of nations in this endeavour, the United Nations system as a whole should play a leading role by serving as a forum for nations to work out remedies for economic and social problems which undermine peace and security in many parts of the world. We hope that the current General Assembly session will provide a much needed opportunity for more serious discussion on these vital issues. Taking advantage of its recent experience in development, the Republic of Korea will make its full contribution to the effort for global economic and social development. In June this year a variety of issues on development were discussed at the World Hearings on Development. At these Hearings special emphasis was placed on human- centred development, the interrelationship between peace and development and the need for strengthening international cooperation. I hope that a concrete action programme will be worked out, based on the informative views presented at the Hearings and at the high-level segment of the 1994 substantive session of the Economic and Social Council. Our past experience has taught us that social development and economic growth are inseparable. Meaningful social progress necessarily includes substantial economic growth. At the same time, the substance of social development - the promotion of social welfare, equitable redistribution and the protection of the environment - is crucial for sustainable economic growth. In this context, I am convinced that the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen next year, will set a new landmark in the field of social development by producing effective and feasible action plans. Economic and social development is closely linked with environmental issues. During the past four decades the world population has doubled, while the global economy has grown eightfold. For the first time the Earth has begun to feel the heavy strains of human activity. It has become evident that the planet can no longer keep up with the pace of its exploitation. A balance must be struck, and harmony sought, between the environment and development. Two years ago the United Nations took a most important initiative by holding the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. We should uphold the goal set by this conference: environmentally sound and sustainable development. To achieve this goal, the advanced countries should play a leading role in protecting the environment. Support should be given to developing countries in the form of financial contributions and the transfer of environmentally-sound technology. Developing countries, for their part, should make efforts commensurate with their capabilities. As a member of the Commission on Sustainable Development, the Republic of Korea has actively participated in formulating global regimes for the environment. We have joined international environmental agreements and contributed to the Global Environment Facility (GEF). My Government will continue its efforts and cooperation to attain both development and a better environment. 21 Today we are witnessing a massive exodus of people in many parts of the world, the consequence of armed conflict and natural disasters. We are pleased that the United Nations capacity to provide humanitarian assistance has been strengthened through close coordination between its relevant bodies. However, appeals for urgently needed resources are usually met with a fraction of the targeted figures, thereby seriously hampering the effective implementation of humanitarian programmes. Once again, we need generous assistance from the entire international community. I am happy to report that, thanks to the recent public campaigns organized by the Government and various non- governmental organizations in Korea, the Korean public has been alerted to the importance of humanitarian assistance. This is demonstrated by the fact that we have been sending financial aid, medical personnel and supplies to such troubled spots as Rwanda. On human rights, more than a year has elapsed since the Vienna World Conference on this important subject was held in 1993. My Government is encouraged to see that some of the provisions in its Programme of Action have already been implemented. Since last year the Korean Government has been pursuing in earnest a policy that we call 'new diplomacy', which emphasizes the universal values of human rights, welfare, liberty and democracy. Currently we are preparing to become a party to the Convention against Torture, and last July the Third United Nations Workshop for the Asia-Pacific Region on Human Rights Issues was held in Seoul. Among the outcomes of the Workshop was acceptance of our proposal to hold the Workshop on a regular basis. That agreement is an expression of the collective will of all the Asia-Pacific countries, which has helped us to move one step closer to the ultimate establishment of a regional human rights institution. Another critical task for global peace and security is preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, both nuclear and biochemical. Most urgently, we must deal with the problem of nuclear proliferation. The Republic of Korea supports the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) at the Review and Extension Conference in 1995. The Treaty has made an enormous contribution to international security as the mainstay of the non-proliferation regime. The legitimacy of the NPT should be reinforced through renewed efforts on the part of the nuclear Powers and through increased international cooperation for the peaceful use of nuclear energy. At the same time, the effectiveness of the NPT regime should be enhanced by strengthening the safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The negotiations for a comprehensive test-ban Treaty (CTBT) at the Conference on Disarmament are also very important. A universal and verifiable CTBT will undoubtedly serve as a major instrument in strengthening the non-proliferation regime and advancing nuclear disarmament. The recent changes in the world order require a rationalization of disarmament agendas and new working methods. The multilateral disarmament frameworks must meet these requirements. In view of the ever-increasing importance of the Conference on Disarmament as a negotiating forum, its membership should be expanded. In keeping with the spirit of the United Nations Charter, efforts for disarmament and security measures should also be encouraged on the regional level. In this regard, the Republic of Korea welcomes the productive discussions on confidence-building measures at the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum last July in Bangkok. A security dialogue for the North-East Asian subregion would complement this region-wide framework. A major challenge to the NPT regime is the North Korean nuclear problem, which poses a serious threat not only to the Korean peninsula, but also to the Asian-- Pacific region and the world as a whole. The suspicions surrounding the North Korean nuclear programme should be completely cleared by securing transparency of its nuclear activities, past and future, as well as the present. For this, North Korea should fully cooperate with the IAEA in the implementation of the safeguards agreement and implement the Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. If North Korea fulfils its obligations in good faith, we will do all we can to assist the DPRK in the peaceful use of nuclear energy. Depending on the resolution of the nuclear issue, the Republic of Korea stands ready to make its technological and capital resources available for North Korea’s overall economic development in the spirit of mutual prosperity. The post-cold-war international situation presents us with opportunities for a new world as well as multiple challenges to our efforts for peace and development. 22 Therefore, it is all the more imperative that the role of the United Nations be increased. One of the most remarkable changes in the aftermath of the cold war is the strengthened role of the United Nations in peace-keeping. As regional conflicts have come to replace the bipolar confrontation of the cold war, United Nations peace-keeping operations have expanded dramatically, both in number and mandate. Given the limited resources for United Nations peace-keeping activities, more effort should be made for the effective use of preventive diplomacy. The decisions on United Nations involvement in actual conflicts should be made selectively and with proper priorities. Continued efforts should also be made to address the modality of intervention and the means of securing the necessary resources. The Republic of Korea remains firmly committed to United Nations peace-keeping activities. As part of its ongoing support, the Republic of Korea sent an engineering unit to Somalia last year. Last month we dispatched a medical unit to Western Sahara, and in a few days Korean military observers will arrive in Georgia. Korea also plans to join United Nations efforts to arrange stand-by forces. The new diplomacy of my Government puts emphasis on globalism. Through active engagement in global affairs, Korea seeks to play its due role within the United Nations framework. It is in this vein that the Republic of Korea has presented its candidature for a seat on the Security Council for the 1996-1997 term. We look forward to the encouragement and support of other Member States for this effort. We support reform of the United Nations. Reforms are needed in order better to cope with the new challenges faced by the world body. As United Nations membership has increased from 51 in 1945 to 184 in 1994, an enlargement of the Council seems in order. The key question is how to increase the number of seats without compromising the Security Council’s effectiveness. Creation of a third category of Council members, coupled with the expansion of non-permanent membership, may be an answer. For the United Nations fully to assume its role in the new international environment, its financial difficulties should be duly addressed. It is also imperative that the efficiency of the Organization and its management be enhanced to guarantee the effective use of available resources. In this regard, my delegation welcomes the establishment of the Office of Internal Oversight Services, and looks forward to the active role of the newly-appointed Under-Secretary-General for Internal Oversight Services. The Republic of Korea feels a particular sense of affinity with the United Nations. Both Korea and the United Nations were born in the wake of the Second World War. Upon creation, both entertained great expectations: the United Nations hoped for global peace; Korea hoped for national integrity and prosperity. They both experienced disappointment, however, as their expectations were crushed by conflict and division: the cold war and East-West division for the United Nations; the Korean War and South-North division for Korea. Now, at last, the United Nations has risen from its unhappy past with new hopes; the world body is no longer held hostage to the paralysing cold war vetoes. The Republic of Korea has also overcome socio-political difficulties and economic underdevelopment. But the division on the Korean peninsula still remains. It is the ardent wish, and also a firm belief, of the Korean people that the shackles of national division will soon be broken as the South and the North work together in the spirit of reconciliation and cooperation. My country’s unique relationship with the United Nations makes the upcoming fiftieth anniversary all the more meaningful to us. The National Committee of the Republic of Korea for the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations was established last April. This Committee is preparing a number of programmes, with special emphasis on enhancing the awareness of the role of the United Nations among the new generation. We also plan to actively participate in the programmes sponsored by the United Nations. In this regard, I am pleased to note that a leading Korean corporation is participating as a global sponsor in the preparation for the United Nations fiftieth anniversary. Next year the United Nations will celebrate its golden anniversary. It will be an occasion for us all to be reminded once again of the goals set forth in the Charter of the United Nations. The new world which was envisaged by the founding fathers of this body is yet to take shape. But we must be aware that we now stand at a critical juncture in history, and that a rare opportunity has been handed to us. 23 We have to reach for a peaceful and prosperous world based on interdependence and cooperation between nations. Success will depend on our ability to understand the nature of the new global environment, which is fundamentally different from the old one, and on our determination to meet the challenge. We have to associate ourselves with the forces that will shape the future. United, and only by being united, can we build and thrive in this new world society. Permit me, Sir, on behalf of the Uganda delegation, to congratulate you most warmly on your well-deserved unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your election is a recognition by our Organization of your exemplary personal qualities. It is, indeed, a great honour to your country, Côte d’Ivoire, with which Uganda enjoys warm fraternal relations. I am confident that, with your skills and experience, you will be able to guide our deliberations to a successful conclusion. I wish to pledge Uganda’s full support and cooperation to you in your endeavours. I also wish to pay special tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana, for the able manner in which he steered the work of the forty- eighth session of the General Assembly. Our appreciation goes to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his courageous and clear- sighted leadership of the Organization. At the outset, let me say how warmly Uganda welcomes the presence in our midst of a new South Africa, born on the principles of equality, justice and democratic governance. I wish to pay a special tribute to His Excellency President Nelson Mandela and other leaders of the South African liberation movements, and to Mr. de Klerk, for their vision and statesmanship, which enabled the United Nations to achieve one of the key long- sought objectives of Africa. Since the last session of the General Assembly, several developments have taken place in the international arena; some of these have offered hope and encouragement, while others have led to frustration and despair. In many countries, peace, the rule of law and democratic governance are being consolidated. However, in some others, such as Angola, Somalia, Liberia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, conflicts have caused untold suffering, loss of life and destruction of property, and have contributed to the staggering numbers of refugees and displaced persons, with the attendant negative consequences. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates the number of refugees and displaced persons worldwide to be over 23 million and 26 million respectively. Africa is estimated to have over 32 per cent and Asia over 25 per cent of the total refugees. Seven countries in Africa are among the top 10 countries of origin of refugees. Most of these refugees and displaced persons have fled as a consequence of conflicts, mainly within nations, but to a lesser extent between nations. This is a vivid, awesome picture for Africa in particular, and for developing countries in general. Uganda welcomes the increasing priority attention being given by the United Nations to the resolution of conflicts in Africa and elsewhere, especially the emphasis given by the Secretary-General in “An Agenda for Peace” to preventive diplomacy and peacemaking. We agree with his view that security, socio-economic well-being, environmental sustainability and the protection of human rights are closely interdependent and interlocked in a mutually reinforcing manner. They should therefore be addressed in tandem in order to avert conflicts and their attendant negative effects, such as the outflow of political and economic refugees, capital flight and brain drain. We welcome the establishment of the OAU Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. Such a mechanism is useful for confidence- building among rival parties and can facilitate peaceful resolution of conflicts. Uganda is committed to making the OAU Mechanism effective and usable. We urge the United Nations and the international community to lend it the requisite support. The situation in Somalia remains tense and fragile with serious negative implications for peace, national reconciliation and orderly provision of humanitarian assistance. Uganda supports the new emphasis by the international community on seeking a political settlement to the Somalia conflict. Uganda urges all Somali groups and factions to put behind them fear and mistrust, and to begin to implement all commitments they undertook in the Nairobi Declaration on National Reconciliation in order to pave the way for the implementation of the Addis Ababa Agreements, including the establishment of transitional administrative mechanisms. We commend the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II) for facilitating the flow of humanitarian assistance and we urge continued international support to Somalia. As regards Liberia, Uganda was encouraged by steps taken to begin the implementation of the Cotonou Agreement, namely the establishment of the Liberia National Transitional Government and the initiation of the process of disarmament and demobilization of various combatants. However, we are disappointed by the increasingly tense military situation on the ground, both within and between parties, which has brought the process of disarmament and demobilization to a virtual standstill. We urge all parties to show seriousness to the process of peace and national reconciliation as this is vital for continued international support and a continued presence. 2 Uganda welcomes steps taken so far by the Government of Mozambique and RENAMO to implement the general peace agreement. We urge the parties to remain committed to the peace agreement and to respect the outcome of the elections scheduled for 27 and 28 October 1994. We commend the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (UNOMOZ), which has helped to engender confidence among the parties — vital for the successful implementation of the peace agreement — and we urge continued international assistance to Mozambique, especially in the resettlement of refugees and displaced persons. The situation in Angola remains a matter of concern to the international community despite ongoing Lusaka negotiations between the Government of Angola and UNITA. The people of Angola continue to suffer from indiscriminate killings and destruction of property. My delegation urges the parties concerned, especially UNITA, to demonstrate flexibility, realism, political will, tolerance and compromise, which are necessary for peace and national reconciliation. The civil war in southern Sudan has continued to escalate, with an enormous loss of lives, destruction of property and a large number of refugees and displaced persons. Uganda alone hosts an estimated 300,000 Sudanese refugees. We urge the parties to the conflict to set their sights on the common good and mutual accommodation in the ongoing regional efforts — in particular, the Inter-Governmental Authority for Drought and Development (IGADD) initiative — which are aimed at finding a durable political settlement. As regards Western Sahara, Uganda is concerned at the slow progress towards the holding of a United Nations supervised referendum on self-determination of the people of that territory. We appeal to the parties to overcome their differences and enable a just and impartial referendum to be effected. The systematic and widespread massacres of civilians which took place in Rwanda were tragic and deplorable. Uganda supports the setting up by the Secretary-General, on 29 July 1994, of an impartial commission of experts to investigate violations of international humanitarian law and acts of genocide committed in Rwanda with a view to identifying persons responsible for those violations and bringing them to justice. This should contribute to the process of national reconciliation. We are encouraged by the declaration of the Government in Rwanda that it will be guided by the spirit of the Arusha Peace Agreement as a framework for peace and national reconciliation and for its support for the regional initiatives on the problem of Rwandese refugees. Similarly, we also appeal for assistance to be extended to local populations in neighbouring countries that are hosting the refugees, in order to mitigate the adverse socio-economic and environmental effects they are facing as a result of the influx of refugees. Uganda congratulates the Governments of South Africa and Namibia for settling, through peaceful means, their long-standing dispute over Walvis Bay and the offshore islands. Uganda notes the flexibility shown by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya with regard to implementation of Security Council resolution 731 (1992). We hope that this will contribute to a peaceful resolution of the problem. Uganda welcomes the initiation of Palestine self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho. We commend Chairman Arafat and Prime Minister Rabin for their political steadfastness, which made this possible. We encourage them to continue working together to resolve all outstanding issues for the full implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). We appeal to the international community to provide increased assistance to Palestine which is needed for reconstruction and development. We express our satisfaction over the signing by Jordan and Israel of the Washington Declaration by which the two countries mutually agreed to end the state of war between them. This should go a long way in helping to build confidence, facilitating the normalization of relations, concluding a formal peace treaty between the two countries and between Israel and other countries in the region. Uganda supports efforts with a view to the peaceful resolution of the problem in the Korean peninsula and urges all parties to work together to create an atmosphere that will help ease the tension and that is conducive to negotiating a durable political settlement of the Korean problem. Uganda welcomes the developments in Haiti directed towards the return of President Aristide and the restoration of a democratically elected Government in that country. 3 Uganda is deeply concerned over the continuing genocide and 'ethnic cleansing' in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We urge the United Nations and the international community to act decisively and to take appropriate steps to end hostilities in accordance with relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council, as well as the peace plan of the Contact Group and to create an environment conducive to a smooth and timely flow of humanitarian assistance to the people affected. Uganda is encouraged by some positive developments that have taken place in the area of disarmament. We note the ongoing formal negotiations on a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty (CTBT), under the auspices of the Conference on Disarmament, and urge successful completion of the CTBT prior to the convening of the Review Conference on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to be held early in 1995. As a State Party to the NPT, and in the context of the preparatory process and review of the Treaty, Uganda will seek the removal of all imbalances in the NPT and the securing of adequate technical assistance for developing countries in the peaceful application of nuclear technology. We also note the progress that is being made to strengthen the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction through measures such as mandatory data exchanges and periodic on-site visits. These measures are useful in engendering confidence in compliance and in helping minimize violations of the Convention. We are also encouraged by the possibility of the entry into force in mid-1995 of the 1993 chemical weapons Convention. The treaty on an African nuclear-free zone will be yet another important landmark for peace in Africa. Uganda urges its timely and successful conclusion. It is imperative to consolidate achievements so far recorded in the area of nuclear testing and non-proliferation in order to lay firm ground on which to make progress in other new and more challenging areas of disarmament. Uganda is committed to the full respect and universal enjoyment of human rights. We reaffirm our support for the Declaration and Programme of Action on human rights, and welcome the appointment of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. For its part, Uganda has established a human rights national focal point within the Justice Department aimed at enhancing public awareness and developing national capacity in the observance and promotion of human rights in the country. My delegation wishes to pay special tribute to all countries that have extended support to Uganda in this vital area of our development, and we appeal for continued support. Uganda is committed to democracy, good governance and the rule of law. A democratization process in the country is well under way. The Constituent Assembly was successfully elected on 28 March 1994. The Assembly is currently debating a draft constitution, which is expected to be finalized and promulgated by the end of 1994. That will be followed by nationwide presidential and legislative elections in early 1995. Uganda is concerned about the current trends in the global economy which continue to weigh unfavourably on many developing countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. Excruciating external indebtedness remains a major impediment to our development. Many of our countries are spending large proportions of meagre export earnings on debt-servicing alone. For instance, as of 30 June 1994 Uganda had a total external public sector debt of $2.99 billion — over 80 per cent of estimated gross domestic product for the 1993-1994 financial year. Contractual debt-servicing was $185 million — almost 76 per cent of export earnings; while arrears to be cleared were $222 million — or 91 per cent of export earnings. The situation is compounded by the fact that 77 per cent of the total stock of debt, which is the portion owed to multilateral and bilateral institutions, is currently ineligible for restructuring or reduction. The problem of external indebtedness is further aggravated by unfavourable terms of trade, especially the collapse of our export commodity prices, severely contracted resource inflows and limited access to technology. In addition to these unfavourable conditions, most of our countries are implementing stringent economic reforms, with their attendant adverse socio-economic implications for our people. This notwithstanding, some countries, including Uganda, are registering positive economic growth and controlling inflation. For economic reforms to succeed in our countries, all creditors, including multilateral institutions, should adopt enhanced measures that go beyond debt-rescheduling in order to bring about a substantial reduction in our total stock of debt. Such measures should include substantial debt cancellation or conversion into grants and/or other innovative schemes such as the use of reserves, a new issue of special drawing rights and 4 debt swaps. In this regard Uganda endorses the conclusion of the recent Jakarta Non-Aligned Movement Ministerial Meeting on “Debt and Development: Sharing of Experiences” and also endorses the recent proposal by the British Chancellor of the Exchequer on measures to resolve the debt problem of the poorest countries. Equally, there is a need significantly to increase resource in-flows to our countries — for example, through increased levels of official development assistance; foreign direct investment in areas such as manufacturing, agricultural processing and tourism; and the provision of remunerative commodity prices. Uganda, in the context of the preparatory process and next year’s mid-term global review of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries, will also seek the adoption of similar measures in favour of the least developed countries. As regards the Uruguay Round, Uganda urges that in the implementation of the provisions of the Final Act special offsetting measures be adopted to obviate adverse effects that are likely to arise from the erosion of special preferences currently enjoyed by some developing countries under arrangements such as the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries and Lomé IV. Further, the way should be eased for more developing countries to gain increased access to international markets for their products, in order to augment their export earnings. We also urge that the necessary assistance be provided to enhance our capacity to produce value-added goods and services for international markets. The Secretary-General’s “Agenda for Development”, which has been submitted to this session of the General Assembly, provides a useful framework for political dialogue between the North and the South on practical measures to make operational the international policies, programmes and actions on development which have so far been adopted by the international community. My delegation supports this initiative. As we elaborate on the Agenda, we should be guided by the overall objective of effecting a substantial, rapid improvement in the quality of life in developing countries, through the eradication of poverty and the provision of basic needs, namely, nutrition, shelter, health and education. Equally, we endorse the proposal made by Brazil for the convening of a United Nations conference on development some time in 1996. Uganda welcomed the fact that the General Assembly, in its resolution 48/214 on the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, agreed to address the full range of issues related to the diversification of African economies, with particular attention to be given to the issue of the establishment of a diversification fund for African commodities. Uganda attaches great importance to the establishment of such a fund. We appeal to our developed partners to be understanding and flexible in the negotiations in order to enable the facility to be put in place as soon as possible. The international economic system dictates that we enlarge our economic horizons beyond national boundaries in order to widen our markets. Uganda welcomes the coming into force, of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Abuja Treaty establishing the African Economic Community, which provides a useful framework for coordination of African development efforts at the continental level. In order to succeed, efforts to be pursued at subregional levels should be well coordinated and rationalized. Uganda is committed to full implementation of the Treaty for the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) and the Arusha Treaty on revived East African cooperation. We appeal to the international community to provide requisite assistance to support our regional integration efforts in order to strengthen or create infrastructures that facilitate the movement of goods and services. Uganda reaffirms its support for Agenda 21 and other agreements on sustainable development adopted in Rio de Janeiro. However, it is necessary that the Rio political momentum be translated into practical measures to implement all commitments agreed upon, especially with regard to the provision of financial resources and the transfer of technology to developing countries. For its part, Uganda is committed to addressing all causes and effects of environmental degradation, particularly poverty. For instance, we are sparing no efforts in seeking ways and means to exploit our enormous potential in hydroelectric power and solar energy, which are environmentally sound and are economic alternatives to wood fuels. This will help stem the current widespread forest depletion. We appeal to the international community to support our efforts in the area of sustainable development. The most important outcome of the Cairo Conference on population was the endorsement of the view that the problem of population is not just a question of numbers; rather, the critical issue is that of human development and welfare. In this regard, the challenge is to improve people's standard of living in such areas as the provision of education and health, housing, transportation, clean water and sanitation, and to eradicate poverty. In 5 developing countries especially, population problems that arise from irresponsible parenthood are ultimately a result of socio-economic despair and ignorance, and these demand our foremost attention. As a follow-up to the 1990 Programme of Action on children, Uganda has established the National Council for Children to oversee national activities aimed at their protection, promotion and development. We support the convening of the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development in March 1995 to address issues of poverty- eradication, productive employment and social integration, which we hope will lead to the improvement of standards of living, especially in the most impoverished countries. We also support the convening of the Beijing Fourth World Conference on Women in 1995 to devise measures for the enhancement of gender equality and the empowerment of women. Uganda will continue to participate actively in the preparatory processes of both meetings. The reform of the Security Council, in our view, should aim at achieving greater transparency in its methods of work, making it more democratic in decision-making and reflective of the increased United Nations membership in its composition. We therefore support the proposal to expand its membership. However, in our view, its expansion should increase the number of seats for developing countries on an equitable regional basis, to reflect the increased membership of developing countries in the United Nations and the fact that the agenda of the Security Council is increasingly dominated by issues of concern and interest to developing countries, such as conflict-resolution and humanitarian emergencies. As regards the Council's decision-making procedures, our view is that a proportionate number of developing countries, including African countries, should be accorded rights and responsibilities similar to those currently exercised by permanent members of the Security Council. Our legacy to future generations is to put in place a firm institutional framework that can adequately and equitably respond to the interests and concerns of all mankind, rich and poor alike. This is the challenge that faces our Organization as we enter the fiftieth anniversary year of the United Nations. On behalf of the Ghana delegation, I have the honour and pleasure of conveying to you, Sir, our congratulations on your election, by acclamation, as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your election is an honour not only to you personally but also to your country, Côte d’Ivoire, with which Ghana shares a common destiny and, happily, enjoys very warm, cordial and special relations. You will no doubt be equal to the task, given your disposition and your record of distinguished service to your Government and country and to the international community. Allow me also to place on record our appreciation of the effective leadership that your predecessor as President, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana, provided for the Organization during his stewardship. His ability to navigate the General Assembly through the difficult discussions on the restructuring and revitalization of the Organization — particularly those on the reform of the Security Council — and the skill that he demonstrated during the world hearings on the proposed Agenda for Development are indelible marks of his stewardship. The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has continued to remain on top of his very challenging and delicate task as the chief executive of the Organization. His abilities and skills as a thinker, administrator and accomplished diplomat have been assets to the United Nations. The dedication and commitment of his staff have been equally noteworthy. In discharging its primary responsibility to promote international peace and security the United Nations has had successes and disappointments. Exploitation of the inherent weaknesses of the Charter, lack of good faith, greed and the quest for domination characterized the era of the cold war which, happily, appears to be coming to an end. However, conflicts that threaten international peace and security exist and are multiplying; some are legacies of the cold war and others the result of the failure of the international community to create the economic and social conditions for international peace and security. Other contributing factors include inordinate personal ambition, ethnicity, nationalism, religious intolerance and political adventurism. Thanks to the end of the cold war, the political landscape in Europe has changed and has impacted positively, if only with partial success, on Cambodia, Mozambique and, most important of all, the Middle East. The Angolan problem appears to be nearing a solution. At long last, UNITA is getting the message that the international community abhors its commitment to militarism and appreciates the political maturity and spirit of compromise of the Angolan Government. Although certain cold-war-era conflicts such as Cyprus, Korea and Afghanistan are proving difficult to solve, one must take comfort in the fact that the Koreas are agreed on the basis of reunification of their country and that, after decades of conflict and anxiety, South Africa is now a non-racial, democratic country. We take this opportunity to welcome its delegation into our midst. The contribution of the United Nations in the solution of these conflicts is immense, but one must also recognize that no progress would have been possible without the exemplary statesmanship of the leaders involved in their solution. 10 The end of the cold war, coupled with the strains of nation-building, have produced new threats to peace in parts of the former Soviet Union, in Yugoslavia and in Africa. Horror stories have emerged from Bosnia, Liberia, Rwanda and Somalia. Some of the problems seem to have no immediate prospect of solution. Somalia and Liberia are coming close to being written off as Afghanistan has been. To an increasing degree regional organizations and small States like Ghana are being called upon to bear the burden of securing a peaceful world, a burden far above their means. In such situations success depends largely upon support from the more endowed members of the international community, either through the United Nations or on a direct bilateral basis. In Liberia, Ghana and a few other countries members of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) are groaning under the burden of helping the Liberians maintain a nation. In Rwanda, in the heat of battle Ghana and Canada were left alone to grapple with a horror situation without adequate material support. Even after the international community was shamed into action, logistic support has not been particularly prompt or adequate. Ghana takes pride in its peace-keeping role. From the Congo crisis in the early 1960s up until now it has demonstrated the will and readiness to come to the help of nations in distress. We are willing to continue to discharge our responsibilities if adequate material support can be forthcoming from the international community, particularly, its wealthy members. Given the unwillingness of many nations to get involved in conflicts far from their shores and in respect of which their national interests are not manifest to their electorate, the option for the international community is to support countries such as Ghana and regional organizations such as ECOWAS and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) to defend the ideals of the United Nations. With President Rawlings’s assumption of the chairmanship of ECOWAS Ghana is directly face to face with the ambitions, rivalries, prejudices, misconceptions and lack of common purpose even within ECOWAS and with the misrepresentations that have made the solution of this problem elusive. We must pay a tribute to our predecessors as Chairmen of ECOWAS who have had to grapple with the problem. We have recently gathered the warring factions in Akosombo to push the peace process forward. We have taken note of the misconceptions and attempts to undermine this latest effort. However, with persistence, patience, firmness and transparency, we hope we can make significant progress in the coming year. What we ask of the Liberians is sincerity and the spirit of compromise. From the international community, we will appreciate moral, material and diplomatic support and an understanding of the complexities of the problem. Peace-keeping is crowding the international agenda to such a degree that we seem to be losing our ability to focus on the unfinished business of disarmament. The proliferation of conflicts generates insecurity and compounds the disarmament problem. Both problems, however, must be resolved simultaneously. The process of eliminating nuclear weapons needs to be speeded up to make the extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) an attractive proposition for non-nuclear Powers. Bilateral efforts at disarmament, such as those under way between the United States of America and the Russian Federation, need to be situated in the general context of multilateral diplomacy. It is no accident that conflicts abound in the developing world and the economically backward areas of Europe. At the root of all these conflict situations and the threats to peace and security are economic deprivation and abject poverty. It is not necessary to restate the gruesome statistics of the conditions of the poor — the high mortality rates, the malnutrition, the inadequate health facilities, ignorance and poor housing. These conditions are compounded by a seriously inequitable system of international trade with its attendant problems, including the debt burden. Unequal access to knowledge, technology and resources has accentuated the already unacceptable socio-economic inequalities both within and among nations. The issue of external debt is primary in its constraining effects on economic growth in Africa. The vast majority of lower-income countries which owe debts totalling $1.3 trillion are in sub-Saharan Africa. Sub-saharan Africa alone is overburdened with debt servicing to the tune of $200 billion representing 10 per cent of the total national income of the 43 countries involved. It is not sheer coincidence that Africa plays host to a sizeable number of United Nations peace-keeping operations. The scale of Africa’s debt and the effect it has produced in our economies requires action by the international community. The international accord embodied in the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa, which contains a strategy to relaunch African economies on the path of growth and 11 recovery, has hardly had any noticeable effect a year after its adoption. The international community is yet to discharge its obligations under the international accord. No agreement has been reached on the modalities for the creation of a diversification fund for Africa as called for by the various studies initiated by well-known bodies of the United Nations. This is regrettable. The conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations was no doubt a historic achievement. It holds prospects of opening up possibilities of trade liberalization and long-term growth. It is, however, equally true — and probably more significant — to note that trade is possible only after production. A lot of factors constrain the ability and capacity of developing countries, particularly in Africa, to take advantage of international arrangements such as those concluded under the Uruguay Round. Because of our conviction that the underlying socio-economic factors of the threat to peace and security should be seriously addressed by the international community, the Government of Ghana strongly supports the holding of the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen, Denmark, from 6-12 March 1995. However, it should not be an occasion for an attempt to impose a set of social values on the international community, nor should it be an opportunity to malign the cultural practices of any group of people. It should be an occasion for mutual understanding to pave the way for a charter for social progress. Ghana also attaches great importance to the forthcoming Fourth World Conference on Women, scheduled to take place in Beijing in September 1995, as part of the process of furthering peace and security. We recognize the increasingly evident correlation between the advancement of women and economic development and social stability. We hope the Conference will help accelerate the removal of obstacles to women’s full and equal participation in all spheres of life and enable them to play an active role in the global restructuring of economic, political, social and cultural relations as we approach the twenty-first century. The increased responsibilities of the United Nations in peace-keeping, the expansion of the Organization and the demise of the Soviet Union as a super-Power have highlighted the need for the Organization’s restructuring. In this exercise we must keep two things in mind. We must not undermine the validity of the basic principles of the Organization, such as the sovereign equality of States and non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States. Not even the current preoccupation with democracy and human rights should be allowed to erode these principles any more than is absolutely essential. And we must avoid allowing the Security Council to become the instrument for the foreign policy objectives of certain Powers. We must fight neo-colonialist tendencies exemplified in the economic blockade of Cuba and the questionable imposition of sanctions against the Great Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. There is no basis in international law for these actions, which result in misery for the ordinary people of these countries and restrain intercourse between nations. Reasonable proposals for an end to these problems have been made which we hope will find general acceptance. The United Nations, particularly the Security Council, needs to be restructured in order to reduce the vulnerability of small nations to big-Power pressure and to reflect their increased roles, particularly in the area of peace-keeping, as well as the realities of power today. The increased role of the United Nations in peace-keeping has called for the establishment of machinery within the Secretariat to improve efficiency. In response to the proposal contained in the Secretary-General’s report, “An Agenda for Peace”, the General Assembly and the Security Council have adopted a number of measures and decisions which should enhance the Organization’s ability to maintain international peace and security. However, a lot of work remains to be done. We hope that by its fiftieth anniversary the United Nations will be sufficiently reformed and revitalized to command universal respect and cooperation. In the final analysis, however, resources — financial and otherwise — will determine the effectiveness of the Organization. The financial situation of the Organization remains a source of concern. Members of the Organization should redouble their efforts to ensure its solvency so that the Secretary-General can effectively implement the mandates of the legislative bodies. The Members, for their part, expect prudence and discipline in the application of the resources made available to the Organization. The consolidation of the internal oversight mechanisms into the Office of Internal Oversight Services, together with the existing external oversight mechanisms, should help reduce waste and ensure accountability. Ghana reiterates its belief in the unity of the purposes of the Charter and wishes to stress the need for the Organization to address global development issues 12 with the same vigour as that with which it has approached the issues of global peace and security. It is the hope and expectation of Ghana that this forty-ninth session will mark the beginning of the renaissance of the United Nations, ready to demonstrate, more in action than in words, its determination to maintain peace and promote prosperity on the basis of justice, law and respect for the dignity and worth of the human person. I should like first to congratulate you most warmly, Sir, on your election as President. The Assembly could not have made a wiser choice. I wish you all good fortune and success in your mission. In a few months we shall commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the birth of the United Nations. The United Nations is the fullest expression man has yet achieved of the age-old desire to escape from war and establish an enduring peace. When the United Nations was founded in San Francisco 50 years ago the threat of nuclear war between the super-Powers had already begun to cast a shadow across the world. That shadow has now lifted, and we all live and sleep more safely as a result. Yet as we approach the anniversary we are all more conscious of the suffering and destruction that still disfigure parts of almost every continent in the world. The threats to international peace and security are more diffuse and perhaps less serious than they were, but not less real and not less tragic for those caught up in them. To some extent, disappointment comes out of exaggerated expectation. There is still a tendency to think of the United Nations as if it were some great palace of world order which descended splendidly from heaven 50 years ago. If that were our view, then every broken pane of glass in that palace, every door, every pillar fouled or damaged would be a disgrace and a scandal. But, of course, in reality world order does not descend from heaven at the moment when a Charter is signed. It is not like that at all. World order is built painfully, gradually, brick by brick. Sometimes the wind and the weather destroy what has already been built. But the builders cannot afford to be discouraged - and we are all builders. They have to repair; they have to rebuild; they have to hope that gradually in what they build the advances will outnumber the retreats. There have been recent advances that have been dramatic - beyond expectation. No one who was present at the Union Buildings in Pretoria this May could fail to be moved at the birth of the new South Africa. The goodwill and the cheerful determination of all South Africans on that occasion were a marvelous refutation, it seemed to me, of the cynicism that so often weakens our work. And we have seen the same as the peace process gathers strength in the Middle East. In part of my own country, we may - and I fervently hope we shall - see killings cease, see fears slowly dissolve, as a result of the process started by the British and Irish Governments in the Downing Street Declaration on Northern Ireland. In Europe - in Cyprus, in the former Yugoslavia, in Georgia -the United Nations has helped at least to contain if not yet to resolve deep-rooted conflicts. The world’s most intractable problems continue to be laid at your door, Mr. Secretary-General, like infants laid at the door of some medieval monastery. It is not surprising that, for all the efforts of 77,000 men and women serving in United Nations peace-keeping operations in the field, our Organization has had failures as well as successes to its name. As is common in our society of mass media, the headlines have been dominated by the reversals, and some of them have indeed been tragic. In Rwanda the efforts of the United Nations failed to avert genocide. In Somalia it looks as if our efforts have been effectively spurned by a people whose need for help seemed, and seems, self-evident. A word about Bosnia. There has in recent months, mercifully, been more peace in Bosnia. It is a fragile, uncertain, inconclusive, often interrupted peace, but it is still better than what went before. We necessarily discuss Bosnia all the time. The debate in particular in this building about the United Nations arms embargo has at times seemed to rage more fiercely than the fighting on the ground. Certainly the diplomatic efforts have been frustrating. And I can understand those who believe that reverting to a fight, even a fight to the death, would be 5 preferable to the tangle of negotiations and compromise that sometimes seems to stretch ahead for ever. Nevertheless, I do not agree with that opinion. We should value, we should build on, the advances that have been made, we should value the lives that have been saved by the reduction in fighting on the ground. We can now see perhaps more clearly that the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) has been essential in protecting civilians and in preventing the Bosnian Serb army from making further advances. Who here can believe that Gorazde, or Srebrenica or Zepa would still be in the hands of the Bosnian Government if it were not for the bravery and commitment of UNPROFOR troops? UNPROFOR can operate only if it is able to keep lines open to all the parties to the fighting. It could not continue if leading members of the United Nations were rearming one side; UNPROFOR would then be identified as a party to the war. It is not mandated or equipped for that purpose. Our Secretary-General has endorsed that view, and the Commander of United Nations forces in Bosnia has rightly said 'We have not come here to fight a war from inside white painted vehicles'. So I welcome the decision of which we heard yesterday from the Bosnian President, the decision to accept that now is not the moment to lift the arms embargo. And that Bosnian decision allows UNPROFOR to continue its mission. We have said before that if the Bosnian Serbs do not join the peace process and agree the map presented by the Contact Group, then our present approach may become exhausted. Lifting the arms embargo may become unavoidable, as we said at Geneva in July, and in those circumstances UNPROFOR would have to withdraw. But it would not be a good policy. Indeed, it would be a policy of despair, a policy that, as in Shakespeare’s King Lear, 'Bids the wind blow the earth into the sea, '... 'That things might change or cease'. (King Lear, Act III, scene i, l. 5) A real solution to the conflict, as always, lies with those who are doing the fighting. We from outside must continue to show all the parties that the way forward is political agreement and not more military action. There is a settlement plan, the settlement plan of the Contact Group, on the table. Those who refuse it, those who continue the warfare, must be isolated, must be put under sustained - indeed, increased - pressure. Those who cooperate with the international peace plan effectively, in deeds and not just in words, should have that cooperation recognized. I need to say a few words in response to the remarks made yesterday by the distinguished President of Argentina concerning the dispute over the Falkland Islands. President Menem was right - and I am glad that he mentioned it - when he referred to the increasing cooperation between the United Kingdom and Argentina in several areas. Indeed, this cooperation nowadays characterizes our bilateral relationship. And we certainly hope, sincerely hope, that the progress that we have achieved together will not be reversed. We are quite clear about British sovereignty over the Falkland Islands and the other British dependencies in the South Atlantic, so we were concerned at the recent incorporation into the constitution of Argentina of the new clause to which President Menem referred. It seems to us that in these Falkland Islands, as in Northern Ireland, we must heed the wishes of the people concerned. Indeed, any other course for us or for the United Nations would be inconceivable. This body has heard those wishes of the Islanders expressed, most recently by their elected representatives who visited the United Nations for the debate in the Committee of 24 last July. So we have a difference. But despite this difference, we have joined a dialogue with the Argentine Government on fisheries and petroleum development. We look forward to resuming discussions in the near future with the Argentine authorities on a new agreement on fishing and on the development of possible hydrocarbon resources in the South Atlantic continental shelf. We are also discussing the welcome Argentine offer to remove mines from the Falklands. It seems to me that that is the rational and logical path to the wider progress of which the President of Argentina spoke. I return to this Organization. It is often the target of criticism because it cannot solve every problem laid at its door. We all know that there is scope for improving the performance of the United Nations here in New York and, more critically, where the United Nations and its agencies are in action on the ground. The steps taken so far are a beginning, but only a beginning. Machinery cannot run on thin air. The United Nations can only run on the fuel that we, its Member States, supply to it. So where it has failed, we must not pretend that the failure lies with the system. It lies with 6 us. The failure of the United Nations is our failure, and so it is for us to take action. For example, the sufferings of the Rwandan refugees will not be helped by Member States’ holding their heads in their hands. Their hands should be ready to provide from their pockets what is needed to remedy such suffering. Preventive diplomacy is the ideal. But it often will not be enough. We have to be prepared for the demand for peace-keepers to continue. There are practical ways in which we can respond better to that demand: first, by ensuring that we learn the lessons from our experiences in peace-keeping; secondly, by taking practical steps to improve our capacity to keep the peace, especially in Africa; and, thirdly, by reforming our financing system. I should like to say a brief word about peace-keeping. It is often impossible to predict at the outset of a mission what demands or dangers United Nations troops will encounter. Within limits, they must be ready to improvise. But allowing their role to drift from peace-keeping to taking sides in a war carries high risks to the troops themselves, to the political process they support, and to the ability of the United Nations to put in peace-keepers elsewhere. It undermines the willingness of Member States to contribute troops. So in making their decision to contribute to a United Nations operation countries need to be confident that their troops will be supporting peace and not becoming a party to war. Rwanda put this to the test, and we were found wanting for a response for the time being. The issue was not really whether the United Nations should have sent an intervention force to stop the fighting - which it clearly could not - but whether it could find the means, the men and the equipment, for a force to protect the civilian population. That, tragically, took far too long. That is the latest lesson we need to learn from. It is not now, it seems to me, a question of will, because there is a far greater readiness than there used to be to contemplate intervention on the ground to mitigate or prevent humanitarian disaster. It is not so much the will, the intellectual willingness; it is the resources, the know- how, the ability to respond swiftly, which are still not enough. You, Mr. Secretary-General, have pointed this out over and over again, and I should like to pay tribute to the patience and persistence with which you have rammed home this lesson and sought not merely to tell us the truths about it but to persuade us into practical action and remedy. I agree with what you have said on many occasions. We need to work hard and fast to overcome obstacles which are essentially practical. We British will continue to contribute practically. We have 4,000 British men and women in blue berets, from Georgia to Rwanda, something which would have been thought inconceivable even 10 years ago. We have the seconded British experts at United Nations Headquarters. The speed with which the Department of Peace-keeping Operations has adapted to cope with ever- increasing demand has been impressive. The development of the professional military staff at United Nations Headquarters has been particularly welcome. So has the trend to bring more seconded staff in alongside United Nations personnel. But it will be vital also to help to strengthen our ability to respond quickly in areas where it remains weak. Africa, in the light of experience, should be a priority. Africa’s need for peace-keepers is plain to see: nearly 40 per cent of all United Nations peace-keepers are deployed in Africa. Africa needs peace. There can be no doubt of that, because it is only in peace that Africans will succeed in finding their own solutions to their problems. The remarkable events in South Africa earlier this year showed that. The efforts of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) to develop a coherent approach to the prevention of conflict are welcome. They deserve our full support. But the OAU has warned that its resources are not enough. I believe that the United Nations must respond. By setting up a coherent structure of support systems, running from early warning and preventive diplomacy right through to humanitarian and peace-keeping deployment on the ground, we can make sure that the skills and resources can be put into action as soon as the need arises, and not months later. What does that mean? It means, first, an early warning system. Not all conflicts can be foreseen. Some are triggered by assassination or a coup d’état or other sudden events. More often, surely, we can see trouble brewing: competition for land and resources, ethnic or religious rivalry, the gradual breakdown of law and order, ill-judged responses by central governments. We need a mechanism to pull together information and analysis of events like these, to take a regular forward look at potential troublespots and decide whether preventive diplomacy needs to be triggered. 7 Then, secondly, it means a capacity to react, that is to say, to intervene diplomatically before warfare breaks out. We do not have that capacity now. Britain and France - we announced this last year - have offered help, making available experienced diplomats and offering equipment and support. There needs to be an institutional framework. In Europe we have the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), which operates to agreed principles and has intervened, for example, in Ukraine, Moldova and the Baltic States to try to help parties to resolve disputes before there is recourse to fighting. The OAU has its own experience of pre-emptive action, and it would clearly need to be the focal point of an enhanced effort in Africa. I am proposing that the United Nations should help the OAU and African countries to share this expertise and establish agreed mechanisms for preventive diplomacy in Africa. But, thirdly, that will not always be enough. Peace- keeping skills will continue to be in demand. We must build up the necessary capabilities in Africa. Many African countries already make a major contribution to peace- keeping - Ghana, Egypt, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Zambia, to mention just some. But we all know the United Nations has not been able to deploy in Africa with the necessary speed and effectiveness. I therefore propose that, under the auspices of the United Nations, a number of military staff colleges existing in Africa should become peace-keeping skills centres; that is to say, they should give training in doctrines and disciplines of peace-keeping, and in mediation and conflict resolution. The physical capacity also needs to be strengthened if intervention is to be rapid when it is needed. That requires United Nations logistics basing centres, like those already existing in Europe, to store equipment and ensure that it is quickly available, with rapid mobile logistics teams, earmarked by Member States, to help to maintain that equipment in good running order and to give training and on-the-spot maintenance support. Again, the lesson of Rwanda is clear. These centres will also need headquarters staff to identify and remedy logistic weaknesses, give advice on maps or communications and advise existing and potential troop contributors. These are not proposals for enormous new machinery. We need a framework within which existing resources, capability and know-how can be mobilized. We will strongly support such an effort. It needs further discussion - above all, among and with African countries. We would welcome such discussion soon, here in New York, to develop these ideas, other people’s ideas and take some practical decisions quickly. Finally, money. As you, Mr. Secretary-General, remind us, as you are bound to remind us, the United Nations at the moment works miracles with what we do not pay it. It simply cannot keep running on exhausted credit. It must be able to pay its peace-keepers, for example. We will not be able to build up the operations of the United Nations unless we act now to put the finances of the United Nations on a sound and sustainable footing for the long term. No radical change in principles is needed, but we do need a sensible updating of the way in which assessments are calculated. The existing system was adopted in 1973. Much has changed. No one now would propose that States with above average per capita incomes should enjoy an 80 per cent discount on their peace-keeping contributions. No one now would suggest that discounts for all the newly independent Member States should be absorbed by five countries in an open-ended arrangement. But that is the system. It means that some countries are paying too much and others too little. It means that we now need to put these anomalies right. Moving to a system based on relative capacity to pay, with automatic adjustment for changing circumstances, would not mean very much change for most countries, but it would mean a fair, equitable basis on which the long-term viability and therefore vitality of the United Nations could be assured. A word about the Security Council. Reform is on the agenda - that is quite right - and I believe it is in the interests of the United Nations to sort out the question of enlargement in good time. We would like the momentum of discussion to be maintained. Next year’s fiftieth anniversary is a good milestone for the debate. We will work hard for a good outcome, both on enlargement and on transparency, where recent informal arrangements to improve consultation on peace- keeping between the Secretariat, the Security Council and troop contributors should be further developed. We should ensure that the Council is representative, while avoiding an enlargement so great that it puts at risk the effectiveness of the Council. If consensus can be reached, then clearly there are countries that, by virtue of their global interests and their contribution to international 8 security and United Nations operations, should be invited to accept the responsibilities of permanent membership. I have concentrated today on how we deal with crises and defuse tensions. But, of course, those are only some of the challenges that our Organization faces. Drug trafficking and associated international crime are other threats to our security and well-being. We need to give new energy and encouragement to all those who are involved in developing cooperation against those threats. I mention this because I feel that we must give particular support to the United Nations International Drug Control Programme. This is the programme that has the responsibility for leading all the world’s efforts in this field. Once again, the United Nations is the best resource we have for tackling a menace that threatens the whole world. In conclusion, we can say confidently that the United Nations is indispensable. It is not a perfect glass palace, but it is the best building we have, even though the winds still blow cruelly through its gaps and its defects. We all, therefore, have a duty to repair, make good, build afresh. Next year we will look back rightly on the achievements, and the list of achievements is long. But it will remind us, and we will remind ourselves, of what has not yet been achieved. And I hope that will stir us to show the same vision, the same strength of purpose as the founders of the United Nations, with, I hope, results of equal value for the next 50 years. The delegation of the new Central African Republic, which is attending a session of the General Assembly for the first time, is pleased to be here and expresses to you, Mr. President, and all other representatives, its warmest greetings and the best wishes of the Government and people of the Central African Republic. It is with pride that my delegation sees you, Mr. President, guiding the General Assembly’s proceedings at its forty-ninth session. Your well-deserved election, which honours all of Africa, is a tribute to your country, Côte d’Ivoire, with which the Central African Republic enjoys excellent relations of friendship, fraternity and cooperation. Since 1994 has been called the year of Africa, my delegation and I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the memory of the late President Houphouët-Boigny. We welcome the presence in this Hall of the sister Republic of South Africa, and we congratulate it on the arrival of democracy there. It is with genuine pleasure that my Government congratulates the President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session, Mr. Samuel Rudolph Insanally, and commends him for the competent and intelligent way in which he discharged his mandate. We also congratulate the Secretary-General, a worthy son of Africa, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who, as head of the Organization, made the preparations for the year of Africa. His admirable dynamism, realism, patience and wisdom have effectively helped to contain many international problems, despite meagre resources. We wish to reiterate our firm support for him and our best wishes for every success in his multifaceted initiatives for peace, security and development. In the wake of the Second World War the United Nations was created as a successor to the League of Nations. It set itself the objective of, inter alia, settling of disputes in order to promote the economic, social and cultural development of nations. What has happened since that time? The world was divided into two camps — one capitalist, the other communist — while in between the two the third-world countries described as non-aligned gradually achieved international sovereignty. This situation led to the advent of regimes born of military coups d’état in almost all the countries of the third world, especially in Africa. Those military regimes, which were anti-democratic because they were not elected, seized power and held freedom hostage, thereby curtailing the economic, social and cultural development of our nations. They plunged their populations into unprecedented impoverishment. While the international community and the wealthy countries indulged and fostered this policy of domination, waste, corruption and mismanagement, the colonized and dominated populations fought unceasingly for access to democracy, the basis of all development. At last, near the end of 1990, the populations’ cries of alarm were heard by the international community, which then quickly facilitated the third world’s access to democracy. A new era dawned, starting in the East, where communism crumbled. The wind from the East blew through the African continent, where exhausted and traumatized populations accepted unprecedented sacrifices and waged a ruthless battle against the military regimes in power. Certain African countries opted for the formula of sovereign national conferences, while others chose free, democratic and transparent elections. The Central African people resolutely chose the latter path, at all cost. In this context, the Central African Republic, which I represent today at the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, elected me President, Head of State of the Republic, in a setting of serenity and transparency, and over eight other candidates who enjoyed broad support from abroad. This was a victory not only for me and my Party but also for the entire Central African people. It was a victory won through change in favour of a new and truly democratic Republic. I take this opportunity to thank earnestly, once again, the friendly countries and international institutions that participated unfailingly in the process of democratizing the Central African Republic. I would like to mention in particular France, the United States of America, Germany, Japan, the Republic of China in Taiwan, the European Union, the World Bank and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The Central African Republic would like to base its hopes on the concrete decisions that the General Assembly will be taking to eradicate the last remaining hotbeds of tension in the world at large and in Africa in particular. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Rwanda, Burundi, Angola, Liberia and other countries must find peace again, as did South Africa — and we welcome the presence here of South Africa’s hero: the illustrious, democratically elected President, His Excellency Mr. Nelson Mandela, beacon of the struggle against apartheid and for a new, multi-racial and fraternal South Africa. In this context, firmly convinced of the importance of humanitarian action in Rwanda, we supported unhesitatingly the helpful intervention of France, whose courage and determination we extol. That intervention curbed human suffering and restored peace to Rwanda. I also take this opportunity to extend, on behalf of my country, congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Bill Clinton, President of the United States of America, and to the American people for their intervention in Haiti aimed at restoring democracy and returning the democratically elected President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, to office. At its forty-ninth session the General Assembly must take concrete and urgent measures to prevent and contain conflicts by establishing and strengthening legal instruments. For weapons have never provided any lasting solutions. It is only if these legal instruments are established that the so-called poor countries will be able to begin to lay the foundations of their economic, social and cultural development in peace and tranquillity and 2 that the intervention of the international community and the wealthy countries will be only complementary. As to the Central African Republic, since my election on 27 September 1993, we have endeavoured to lay the groundwork for real democracy by giving priority to dialogue and concord between all the sectors of the Central African nation. A truly democratic constitution, which reflects the profound aspirations of my people, is being drafted and will soon be submitted to a referendum, in December 1994. This constitution, which is the result of a broad consensus, places great emphasis on justice, on fundamental freedoms, and on social and family well-being achieved through work. It applies the mechanism of decentralization, along with its corollary, regionalization in order, on the one hand, to bring the people closer while, on the other, to mobilize all available local resources for the agro-industrial processing of raw materials and mineral resources, for our subsoil is very rich, so as to improve the standard of living in the countryside and the provinces. How will the Central African Republic, a land-locked country, accomplish such a programme if its neighbours, the countries of its subregion, are not at peace? A good portion of our exported and imported goods pass through neighbouring countries such as Cameroon and Congo. Furthermore, at the domestic level, the work of our peaceful peasants is systematically undermined by a phenomenon known as “zaraguinas”, or those who block the road. These “zaraguinas” are simply a reflection of the political and military situation of our neighbours. The General Assembly will understand why the Central African Republic agreed to act as mediator between the Government of Chad and a politico-military group with a view to restoring peace to that fraternal country in its northern sector. This is because peace in Chad, in Cameroon, in Congo, in Sudan and in Zaire will allow the Central African Republic to develop harmoniously, promoting a dynamic and fruitful policy of good- neighbourliness and of the complementarity we require. My country has embarked on the path of mediation between the parties in Chad because it believes in the virtues of dialogue and harmony in a spirit of tolerance and unity within a diversity of political opinions. Today, the agreement reached between the Government of Chad and the National Salvation Council for Peace and Democracy in Chad (CSNPDT) of Moise Kette Nodji is entering the stage of implementation in the field, thanks to the follow-up committee of Bangui II, since this Kette movement, which in the past was a politico-military movement, has now basically become a political party of a conventional type, which is officially recognized. The Government of Chad, on the initiative of the mediator, has just announced an amnesty for the combatants of the CSNPDT in order to rebuild confidence among all Chadians and to create conditions conducive to genuine reconciliation within Chad before the forthcoming elections in the country. We are also prepared to make our contribution to the settlement of internal conflicts in those neighbouring countries that have appealed to us for assistance. I have elaborated on the major problems of concern to my country, the Central African Republic, and also those of neighbouring countries as concerns lasting peace in Central Africa and in the world at large, and the Assembly will understand that I am deeply committed to respect for human rights and for the rule of law. I am a free man, and I say what I believe. I tell the truth, because the truth makes one free. I am a biologist, and I know that a good metabolism requires both macro-elements and oligo-elements. Therefore, it is impossible to claim respect for human rights and for the rights of nations if, in one way or another, we promote discrimination for whatever reason. In the past, it was discrimination between the East and West blocs, whose consequences, in the form of the cold war, plunged a large part of mankind into a catastrophic situation. In the past, it was discrimination between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. In the past, it was racial discrimination in South Africa. Today, we still see discrimination: between the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China in Taiwan. And yet, the Berlin Wall has fallen, as did the walls of Jericho in days gone by, marking the end of the East- West bloc system. The conflict between Israelis and Palestinians has yielded to coexistence between the State of Israel and the State of Palestine. The criminal foundations of apartheid have crumbled and given way to a new, democratic South Africa with a human face. 3 Why not today help the two Chinas to overcome their temporary divergences, which arise out of past history, in order that China might be reconciled with itself in the higher interests of the Chinese people and of the peoples that are friends of the two Chinas? Why exclude the Republic of China in Taiwan from the great family of the international community? Why reject a State that has 21 million inhabitants? Where is our respect for them? Why encourage the conflict between the Chinas, when we know that the two exchange technologies and complement each other? For my part, and on behalf of the Central African Republic, I reaffirm that we intend to maintain diplomatic, economic, cultural and social relations with the two Chinese States without restriction. The choice resides solely with the People’s Republic of China or the Republic of China in Taiwan. The same applies to the two Koreas, because we want to benefit from the technology of all these friendly countries for our development. Towards this end, we base ourselves on the fundamental principle of the United Nations Charter: there are no large nations; there are no small nations. That is why my country, a co-sponsor of the draft resolution on the “Consideration of the exceptional situation of the Republic of China in Taiwan in the international context, based on the principle of universality and in accordance with the established model of parallel representation of divided countries at the United Nations”, deeply regrets that this item was not placed on the agenda of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. The race towards the great market of the People’s Republic of China should not obscure the problems of discrimination that exist between the Chinese peoples. I am still convinced that patience and wisdom will prevail one day, as they have recently in many of the countries we mentioned earlier. Our Organization will soon celebrate its fiftieth anniversary. It is appropriate at this time to draw up the balance-sheet for this half-century and conduct a real assessment in order to set general policy guidelines for the years to come. Loyal to our policy of decentralization in Central Africa, we would also propose that the Assembly be decentralized at the level of each continent, and that it hold its sessions in New York only every two or three years, in accordance with a mechanism to be established after a study by experts. In this way, the other bodies of the United Nations system would also be brought closer to the peoples of the different continents. As regards the Security Council, Africa has achieved maturity, and, with one third of the world’s population, is entitled to a permanent seat and also to the right of veto. This is the proposal for adaptation to present circumstance that we draw to the Assembly’s attention. Before concluding my statement, I should like to remind to General Assembly that the late Barthélemy Boganda, founding President of the Central African Republic, had a prophetic vision of the development of the African continent. He proposed regrouping States into political and economic entities, with a view to launching the economy of the African countries at the subregional and regional levels. The guiding idea was to establish the United States of Africa. Unfortunately, those ideas, which were put forward at such an early date by the late Barthélemy Boganda, were not well understood by his peers and therefore were systematically fought and discarded. The individual countries, out of national chauvinism and egoism, chose to make their own way. Today, Africa has regressed. It is absent at the international level as regards trade and industrial and agro-industrial development. And yet Africa has a wealth of all kinds of raw materials. Why have our economies become so fragile? Why have our education and training systems not attained their objectives — true technical, scientific and socio-professional instruction, the essential basis for a real policy of reconstruction in our countries, which are in an unprecedented state of dilapidation? Why do our health-care systems no longer meet the aspirations of our populations? Why are our roads in such a state of disrepair that it is virtually impossible to travel freely from one country to another? In a word, why must we start all over? All this has happened because of different ideologies, based on the selfish interests of individual nations. It is also due to a lack of active solidarity among African nations. Contrary to other regions of the world, where there are clear signs of the resumption of economic growth, the persistence of poor economic results in Africa remains a source of concern and of constant disquiet. In fact, at the present time, Africa accounts for under 2 per cent of international trade transactions. It is being crushed under the weight of debt, and various programmes for structural adjustment have done nothing to change the worsening 4 standard of living of the entire continent, which does, however, have an enormous potential in its peoples and its nature. The trend towards a decline in the prices of raw materials and commodities is continuing inexorably, and the transfer of technology is proceeding in an unsatisfactory manner, placing Africa on the sidelines. What we need to save the continent is a real Marshall Plan, because at the present time multilateral and bilateral assistance remain insufficient to promote sustained and lasting growth. Without this growth, which is necessary to raise the African people’s standard of living, lasting peace can be only an illusion. In a word, the Central African Republic appeals for international solidarity in favour of the poorest countries, with a view to the relaunching of their development. In this context, my country expresses the hope that this session will mark a new stage in effective cooperation for progress and peace in the entire international community. The Central African Republic believes that tolerance and peace for development must henceforward be the motto of the United Nations. Long live the General Assembly! Mr. President, may we congratulate Mr. Essy and wish him every possible success in exercising your mandate. Seychelles would like to take this opportunity also to pay tribute to the Secretary-General for the timely and judicious initiatives which he is constantly taking to promote peace, justice and development. We have gathered together to express the profound aspirations of the countries we represent. We all have our specific problems, our differences, our advantages and our handicaps. We all have many unresolved questions which stem from an international situation where the factors of political and economic instability are becoming increasingly frequent. The hesitations of a changing world tend to engender a feeling of pessimism, as we see contemporary history being made. Between the industrially developed countries and those who are still marking time on the path to development, considerable barriers are blocking the road to sharing and to solidarity. We now see cruel dissensions arising among peoples that were previously bound by brotherhood. On the international scene, where we are witnessing a relentless confrontation between divergent interests, what place do we now give to the human dimension in relationships? 31 The end of this century is constantly being redefined by shocks, upheavals and various types of aggression born of negativism. More than ever, the success of our societies will depend on their capacity to absorb these shocks and, when there is nothing or little left to reinvest courage, determination and perseverance, in spite of sometimes terrible lack of understanding. But we also have to reinvest our capabilities, our funds, our means and our inborn willingness - in other words, unprecedented alliances have to be struck; for there is no longer time to philosophize about the world we shall bequeath to our great grandchildren. Because of the unprecedented speeding up of history demographic, economic and social projections are becoming alarming in the medium term and no longer in the long term to which we had grown accustomed through our cozy selfishness or our defiance in the face of the unforeseeable. The phenomenon of exponential growth, which is widening gaps and encouraging rivalry, causes immediate rather than delayed reactions. We have become our own heirs! Undoubtedly, there is more food for thought in this idea than in many statements. That illustrates to what extent our efforts must be both planned and creative. It also means that the immediate problem to be tackled is to define our priorities. Here, my thinking is consonant with much of what has been said from this rostrum. Certainly there is no lack of those who plead for a safer, healthier and more prosperous world. And so many conferences and seminars have echoed the same thought and have recalled this idea in their final documents. But we are aware that we have to go beyond this; hence, we are asking for action programmes which mobilize experience, energy and imagination. When continuity of effort is the key factor for success, we must expand the underpinnings of projects, assess results and renew assistance. In other words, what we are advocating is a definitely prescriptive approach, rather than the sort of analytical and descriptive exercises which has been the comfortable route of many international gatherings. If we are specific in defining the areas of our deliberations, then the ensuing action will necessarily be based on precise, useful and needed dynamics. This specificity, in the case of Seychelles as in the case of more than 30 territories throughout the world, is, from the point of view of development, the dual constraint of geographic and demographic smallness and being an island. Need we recall that the situation of small island States can, in many respects, provide indications as to the future of mankind. Here, more than anywhere else, because of their vulnerability - whether it be due to the fragile ecosystems, the scant economic outlets or the lack of human resources - any dependence necessarily impacts upon the very future of the societies concerned. The Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in Barbados, was indeed extremely beneficial for us all. It focused attention on the particular situation of those small States whose relatively high per capita income does not accurately reflect the reality of a situation which donors tend to tie to any aid for development. There is no doubt that that Conference has been the source of great hope for the small island States. But some remain sceptical. In any case, we hope it will lead to a change in attitude on the part of the industrialized countries with respect to the unique situation of small developing island States, for it is the industrialized countries that will not only have to take up and enlarge upon the concerns of the small island States but also have to set in motion the strategies and the plans of action, which are the only real vehicles of change or of development. Far be it from us to engage here in singling out the countries or international organizations concerned. However, two years after the Rio Summit we are very disappointed to see that the provisions of Agenda 21 have rarely given rise to actions. Does this mean that the concept of lasting and sustainable development is going to be severely compromised because of a lack of solidarity and international support and failure to respect commitments? Let us get to the core of the problem. The harmonization of development policies and measures to protect the environment necessarily implies the definition of specific budgetary categories by priority, based on criteria of complementarity as between national effort and international efforts. This must be done free from any spirit of charity, as well as divorced from any evaluation based on per capita income. 32 Let us not forget the backdrop to all this, the fact that in an era where everything occurs on a worldwide level the individual and collective responsibility of States calls for a global approach and equitable sharing of the cost and moral investment the environment represents. Those responsibilities must be consciously assumed. All these are indicators that merit the attention - the unwavering attention - of decision-making bodies and international donors. In the past, many pronouncements have concluded on a hopeful note. Joined together in an orchestral score, such notes would barely fill out a refrain in praise of development, one that, like a clear conscience, can often sound hollow. And yet we do not doubt the wisdom of our negotiating partners. There are surely some who would like to deal with questions of development from a dialectical viewpoint, but that is not true of us. If, for us, the essential thing is not to hesitate to be specific, we seek, in return, measures that will be real, meaningful and measurable. More generally, this could apply to the role women should play in the development process. This is an old debate. Fortunately, the time is now past when women were viewed as non-conventional vehicles of progress. Abolishing a principle, however, although paving the way for many improvements, can also generate a considerable potential for inertia, for the walls of hypocrisy, as we all know, are infinitely thick. It is not enough to quote some cases of women who are entrepreneurs or decision-makers, There have always been some effective women. The important thing is to modify behaviour and practices in real terms, at the societal level, and to analyse and transpose those models and ideas which have from time to time led to good results. That is what we expect from the Beijing Conference. Where natural prerogative is concerned, we cannot of course speak of delegating authority but here too of equitable and responsible sharing. Indeed, do we in fact have a choice? Women must act within their communities as a proponent force that is open to change and capable of enriching the dynamic processes linked to changing values. It is impossible to give life without being concerned about survival, without being deeply aware of the changes that affect the individual or the society whenever they give rise to uncertainty and muddy the waters. Humanism obviously owes a great debt to women. Let us enrich it with our understanding. The woman’s identity is strong, but in many places there is still a lack of both recognition and expression, which are the foundations of her legitimacy. The ideal of legitimacy is a noble concept, in addition to being a good working notion. It is legitimate to look forward to the fulfilment of the promises made in solemn declarations; it is legitimate to expect that intentions so boldly and courageously stated will become promises, and it is also legitimate, when the urgency of the matter no longer leaves time for either declarations of intention or promises, to take action. Consensus can come later. Here, and in the same spirit, I should like to emphasize our interest in the proposal made by the Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) for swift humanitarian action - what we might call a 'spontaneous reaction' - whenever called for. For here again we are talking about the legitimacy that endows the human entity with dignity and makes it worthy of respect. Before concluding I should like to appeal to all countries and peoples present here to unite our efforts to take one large step towards world brotherhood. Let us overturn the rigid barriers of all kinds of self-interest, let us be attentive to the needs of others and the future of our planet. Let us shape our relationships for active solidarity and willing adherence to the principle of shared responsibility. On such vital questions there is no place for trite official statements. In coming decades, no one will be fooled by our unwillingness to engage, openly, fully and with determination, on the path of well-being, especially when it is the neediest of us who most require it. That is the price of true unity among nations. And we in Seychelles harbor this desire to stand alongside all countries in concluding the unprecedented alliance that will guide the great ship of mankind towards the shores of the third millenium. It is up to us to ensure that those shores will be welcoming ones. I have the honour to convey to you, Mr. President, and, through you, to all the delegations here present the warm greetings and good wishes of His Majesty Jigme Singye Wangchuck, King of Bhutan, for the success of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I should first like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your unanimous election, which is a testimony to the high regard that the international community has for your country and the confidence of this Assembly in your personal leadership. Given your long association and intimate knowledge of the United Nations, we are sure you will provide the necessary direction on the many important issues that we are about to take up during this session. I should also like to take this opportunity to place on record our deep appreciation and gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally for the excellent manner in which he conducted the proceedings of our last session. His innovative and vigorous pursuit of discussions on the reform of the United Nations, the restructuring of the Security Council and the hearings on development have set the stage for the current discussions. We should like to pay a tribute to our Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his distinguished leadership. We appreciate his tireless efforts to steer the United Nations in bold and new directions. We had the opportunity to welcome President Mandela and to hear his historic and enlightened address in this Hall. We welcome the end of apartheid and South Africa's return to the family of nations. In the Middle East, the transition of the Gaza Strip and Jericho to Palestinian self-government, the return of President Yasser Arafat and the signing of the Washington Declaration between Jordan and Israel clearly demonstrate the increasing desire for peace in the region. We applaud the parties for the brave decision to embark 16 on the difficult path to peace. It is our hope that all parties will join the process towards peace and reconciliation, based on the relevant Security Council resolutions. It is our hope that the international community will support the Palestinian people in bringing about economic development in the self-rule areas. The situation in the Gulf warrants our close attention. The international community must reject any threat against the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait. We urge all parties to abide by and fully implement the relevant Security Council resolutions. The problems in Rwanda, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Haiti and many other parts of the world still demand the careful and urgent attention of the United Nations. These conflicts severely test the international community's capacity and resolve to deal with humanitarian needs and conflict resolution. We welcome the continued reduction of nuclear weapons and the turning-away of such weapons from their previous targets. We support the extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons beyond 1995 and the proposal for the negotiation of a comprehensive test ban. We urge the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to continue negotiations in earnest and to comply with the International Atomic Energy Agency's safeguards agreement; thereby avoiding suspicion and doubt. My delegation supports the proposal for both the reduction and the clearance of anti-personnel mines. The manufacture of, trade in and deployment of such weapons, which cause indiscriminate and mindless death and maiming, are unconscionable. We urge all parties to participate in the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms. The scope of the exercise should be expanded to include not only trade but also manufacture and stockpiling. The arms trade should cease to provide an opportunity for profiteering on the part of any State. For several years now we have been talking about restructuring the United Nations. The discussions continue, but, so far, little, if any, substantive reform has taken place. In our humble view, reform of the United Nations must reflect the perceptions and expectations of all Members. For many of the larger Member States, the United Nations is a forum in which to project and promote national policies. But in the case of the developing countries — in particular, the smaller Member States — the United Nations guarantees independence and sovereignty and provides an opportunity to participate in international dialogue. The United Nations also provides both the intellectual and the material input required for social and economic development in many developing countries. It is clear that the General Assembly — the only forum in which all Members of the United Nations are represented — must be the main focus of our attention. The relationship between the General Assembly and other United Nations organs must be reviewed and put in proper perspective. The General Assembly itself must be able to appreciate and understand the work of the specialized and other agencies of the United Nations and to provide direction. It must also organize itself in such a way that it can deal more effectively with its business. Routine and symbolic resolutions must be dealt with efficiently, allowing the Assembly to focus on new and more important challenges. The relationship between the General Assembly and the Security Council is particularly intriguing. It is a common mistake to think that these two bodies function like the legislature and the executive of a government. This myth has been perpetuated by decades of Security Council paralysis and by the artificial prominence achieved by the General Assembly through the passing of ineffective but symbolically important resolutions. The reality is that there is only one body of authority in the United Nations — the Security Council. The Council's decisions are binding on all Members. They carry the sanction of international law. The Assembly is explicitly forbidden to interfere in the work of the Council unless requested to do so. The case for reform of the Security Council is overwhelming. The Council must be expanded to reflect the new realities of international relations and to make it a more representative body. It is also important that the deeper structural flaw be redressed and the Council be made more accountable. The financial position of the United Nations continues to be a matter of concern. The sudden and quantum jump in expenditure on peace-keeping operations — now more than three times greater than expenditure on development — is becoming difficult to sustain. There are large-scale arrears in contributions. We do not object to peace-keeping operations, but it is clear that the finances of the United Nations must be put on a sound footing. Financial expenditures reflect the 17 direction and priorities of the United Nations, as well as the commitment of its Members. The Secretary-General, in his report entitled “An Agenda for Development”, states: “Development is a fundamental human right. Development is the most secure basis for peace.” (A/48/935, para. 3) These statements provide, in brief form, the best rationale for recommitment to development in the post-cold-war era. Like peace, development is not a new issue before the United Nations; the United Nations and its agencies have been engaged in international development for decades. What is alarming today is that the gap between the standards of living of developed and of developing countries — the rich and the poor — is growing. The concern arises not because the well-to-do are doing better but because the poor are doing worse. It is no longer just poverty but the destitution of one fifth of the world's population that must be addressed. Poverty saps the human spirit. It replaces hope with despair, creativity with dullness, admiration with envy, and compassion with indifference. Poverty weakens the body, making it susceptible to sickness and disease. Poverty clouds the mind, making it difficult for people to understand the circumstances of their deprivation, and generating bitterness against those they perceive as the cause of their misery. What is unfortunate is that in this day and age, given the advances that mankind has made in science and technology, commerce and industry and civil and social thought, poverty need not exist. Considerable efforts have been made to put into proper perspective the major development issues of our time. The World Summit for Children, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the Eighth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD VIII), the World Conference on Human Rights and the recently concluded International Conference on Population and Development not only generated a remarkable convergence of views but also resulted in commitments to redress global concerns in the participants' respective areas. We have no doubt that the international community will approach the World Summit for Social Development and the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in 1995, with the same resolve and determination. We have all committed ourselves to accepting the conclusions of the major conferences, including the various programmes of action and the prescribed targets. All countries are working hard to translate the commitments into action, but the resources available are insufficient for effective and lasting intervention. It is a matter of great concern that, in fact, the resources made available for development are declining. The future of global development clearly hinges on the provision of additional resources — additional resources in the shape of increased official development assistance for both multilateral and bilateral programmes; additional resources from international financial institutions; additional resources through direct foreign investment and trade; and additional resources generated internally through the creation of financial markets and the expansion of the revenue base. While there seem to be many avenues for increasing the transfer of resources, the reality is that they have yielded little for most least-developed countries. International banking and investments are highly selective and, by their nature, will not be attracted to the least- developed countries, many of which have a small economy and a poor infrastructure. The creation of internal financial markets and the expansion of revenue are hampered by the low level of savings and the limited cash flow in the economy. The capacity of the least- developed countries to compete in international trade is also limited. Clearly, without increased official development assistance many least-developed countries will fall further behind — and their situation is already precarious. It is ironic that resources for international development should decline when the United Nations agencies are embarking on a major thrust for poverty alleviation and sustainable human development. We urge the donor community to continue supporting the United Nations funding agencies. Although the trend towards bilateral cooperation is understandable, the donor community should draw on the advantages of working through the United Nations agencies, given their long experience and commendable performance in many areas. These agencies must regain the confidence of the donor community through greater efficiency and better coordination. Credit is an essential form of input in any major development effort. The crushing debt burden of many developing countries and the manner in which future credit requirements will have to be met must be clearly dealt with in our dialogue on development. Our 18 discussions must include the role of the Bretton Woods institutions, which must be made to work in harmony with the efforts of United Nations agencies. Bhutan long ago accepted that development must be participatory and environmentally sustainable. To this end Bhutan has committed itself to maintaining 60 per cent of its land mass under forest cover, including 20 per cent as national parks. All development activities have been built around this approach. We have been fortunate to receive the generous assistance of, among others, India, Switzerland, Japan, Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, Norway, Kuwait, Germany, Australia and the United Kingdom. Considerable support has also been made available from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the World Food Programme (WFP), United Nations Volunteers (UNV), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Bank and the Asian Bank. We have never taken the involvement of any of our development partners for granted, and we take this opportunity to express the sincere gratitude of the people and the Government of Bhutan to all of them. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is a time for celebration. There is much that the United Nations has achieved for which we should all be proud. Yet it is also a time for reflection and self-assessment. The success of the next 50 years of the United Nations will depend largely on our ability to meet the challenges of global human development. Let me first congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election as President of the General Assembly for its forty-ninth session. The American people look forward to working with you to celebrate the United Nations fiftieth anniversary. We meet today at a time of great hope and change. The end of the cold war, the explosion of technology and trade and enterprise have given people the world over new opportunities to live up to their dreams and their God-given potential. This is an age of hope -yet in this new world, we face a contest as old as history. It is a struggle between freedom and tyranny; between tolerance and bigotry; between knowledge and ignorance; between openness and isolation. It is a fight between those who would build free societies governed by laws and those who would impose their will by force. Our struggle today - in a world more high-tech, more fast-moving, more chaotically diverse than ever - is the age-old fight between hope and fear. Three times in this century - from the trenches of the Somme to the island of Iwo Jima to the shattered Wall in Berlin - the forces of hope were victorious. But the victors of the First World War squandered their triumph when they turned inward, bringing on a global depression, and allowing fascism to rise and reignite global war. After the Second World War, the Allies learned the lesson of the past. In the face of a new totalitarian threat and the nuclear menace, great nations did not walk away from the challenge of the moment. Instead they chose to reach out, to rebuild and to lead. They chose to create the United Nations and they left us a world stronger, safer and freer. Our generation has a difficult task: the cold war is over. We must secure the peace. It falls to us to avoid the complacency that followed the First World War - without the spur of the imminent threat to our security that followed the Second World War. We must ensure that those who fought and found the courage to end the cold war - those from both East and West who loved freedom - did not labour in vain. Our sacred mission is to build a new world for our children - more democratic, more prosperous, more free of ancient hatreds and modern means of destruction. That is no easy challenge; but we accept it with confidence. After all, the walls that once divided nations in this very Hall have come down. More nations have chosen democracy than ever before. More have chosen free markets and economic justice. More have embraced the values of tolerance and liberty and civil society that allow us all to make the most of our lives. But while the ideals of democracy and free markets are ascendant, they are surely not the whole story. Terrible examples of chaos, repression and tyranny also mark our times. The twentieth century has proved that the forces of freedom and democracy can endure against great odds; our job is to see that in the twenty-first century these forces triumph. 6 The dangers we face are less stark and more diffuse than those of the cold war, but they are still formidable: the ethnic conflicts that drive millions from their homes; the despots ready to repress their own people or conquer their neighbours; the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; the terrorists wielding their deadly arms; the criminal syndicates selling those arms, or drugs, infiltrating the very institutions of fragile democracies; a global economy that offers great promise but also deep insecurity, and in many places declining opportunity; diseases like AIDS that threaten to decimate nations; the combined dangers of population explosion and economic decline, which prompted the world community to reach the remarkable consensus at the Cairo Conference; global and local environmental threats that demand that sustainable development become a part of the lives of people all around the world; and, finally, within many of our nations, high rates of drug abuse and crime and family breakdown, with all their terrible consequences. These are the dangers we face today. We must address these threats to our future. Thankfully, the end of the cold war gives us a chance to address them together. In our efforts, different nations may be active in different situations in different ways, but their purposes must be consistent with freedom and their practices consistent with international law. Each nation will bring to our common task its own particular strengths - economic, political or military. Of course, the first duty of every Member of the United Nations is to its own citizens, to their security, their welfare and their interests. As President of the United States, my first duty is to the citizens of my country. When our national security interests are threatened, we will act with others when we can, but alone if we must. We will use diplomacy when we can, but force if we must. The United States recognizes that we also have a special responsibility in these common endeavours that we are undertaking, the responsibility that goes along with great power and also with our long history of democracy and freedom. But we seek to fulfil that responsibility in cooperation with other nations. Working together increases the impact and the legitimacy of each of our actions, and sharing the burdens lessens everyone’s load. We have no desire to be the world’s policeman, but we will do what we can to help civil societies emerge from the ashes of repression, to sustain fragile democracies, to add more free markets to the world, and of course to restrain the destructive forces that threaten us all. In every corner of the globe, from South Africa to Asia, to Central and Eastern Europe, to the Middle East and Latin America, and now to a small island in the Caribbean, ordinary citizens are striving to build their own future. Promoting their cause is our generation’s great opportunity, and we must do it together. A coalition for democracy is good for America. Democracies, after all, are more likely to be stable, less likely to wage war; they strengthen civil society and can provide people with the economic and political opportunities to build their futures in their own homes - not to flee their borders. Our efforts to help build more democracies will make us all more secure, more prosperous and more successful as we try to make this era of terrific change our friend, and not our enemy. In my nation, as in all of your nations, there are many people who are understandably reluctant to undertake these efforts because often the distances are great or the cultures are different. There are good reasons for the caution that people feel. Often, the chances of success or its costs are unclear. And, of course, in every common endeavour there is always the potential for failure and often the risk of loss of life. And yet our people - as we have seen in the remarkable global response to the terrible crisis in Rwanda - genuinely want to help their neighbours around the world and to make some effort in our common cause. We have seen that progress can be made as well. The problem is deciding when we must respond and how we shall overcome our reluctance. This will never be easy. There are no simple formulas. All of us will make these decisions in part based on the distance of the problem from our shores, the interests of our nation, the difference we think we can make, the costs required, or the threat to our own citizens in the endeavour. Hard questions will remain, and cannot be erased by some simple formula. But we should have the confidence that these efforts can succeed, whether they are efforts to keep people alive in the face of terrible tragedy, as in Rwanda, or our efforts to avert a tragedy, as in the Horn of Africa, or our efforts to support processes that are literally changing the future of millions. History is on our side. We should have confidence about this. Look at the march of freedom we have seen in the last year alone. Who, a decade ago, would have dared predict the startling changes in South Africa, in the Middle East and in Ireland; the stunning triumph of democracy and majority rule and the redemption of the purpose of Nelson 7 Mandela’s life; the brave efforts of Israel and its Arab neighbours to build bridges of peace between their peoples; the earnest search by the people of Northern Ireland and Great Britain and Ireland to end centuries of division and decades of terror? In each case, credit belongs to those nations’ leaders and their courageous people. But in each instance the United States and other nations were privileged to help in these causes. The growth of cooperation between the United States and the Russian Federation also should give us all great cause for confidence. This is a partnership that is rooted in democracy, a partnership that is working, a partnership of, not complete agreement, but genuine mutual respect. After so many years of nuclear terror, our two nations are taking dramatic steps to ease tensions around the world. For the first time since the Second World War, foreign troops do not occupy the nations of Central and Eastern Europe. The Baltic nations are free. Russian and American missiles no longer target each other’s people. Three of the four nuclear members of the former Soviet Union have agreed to remove all nuclear weapons from their soil. And we are working on agreements to halt production of fissile materials for nuclear explosives; to make dismantling of nuclear warheads transparent and irreversible; and further to reduce our nuclear weapons and delivery vehicles. The United States and Russia also recognize that we must cooperate to control the emerging danger of terrorists who traffic in nuclear materials. To secure nuclear materials at their sources, we have agreed with Russia to stop plutonium production by the year 2000; to construct a storage facility for fissile materials and buy up stocks of weapons-grade fuel; and to combat the criminals who are trying to smuggle materials for nuclear explosives. Our two nations and Germany have increased cooperation and engaged in joint anti-terrorist training. Soon, under the leadership of our Federal Bureau of Investigation, we will open a law enforcement training academy in Europe, where police will learn how to combat more effectively trafficking of nuclear weapons components, as well as the drug trade, organized crime and money laundering. The United States will also advance a wide-ranging non-proliferation agenda: a global convention to halt production of fissile materials; efforts to curb North Korea’s nuclear ambitions; transparent procedures for dismantling nuclear warheads; and our work to ban testing and to extend the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. And today I am proposing a first step toward the eventual elimination of a less visible but still deadly threat: the world’s 85 million anti-personnel land- mines - one for every 50 persons on the face of the earth. I ask all nations concerned to join with us and conclude an agreement to reduce the number and availability of those mines. Ridding the world of those often hidden weapons will help to save the lives of tens of thousands of men, women and innocent children in the years to come. Our progress in the last year also provides confidence that in the post-cold-war years we can adapt and construct global institutions that will help to provide security and increase economic growth throughout the world. Since I spoke here last year, 22 nations have joined the Partnership for Peace of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). The first joint exercises have been conducted, helping to give Europe the chance to become a more unified continent in which democratic nations live within secure borders. In Asia, security talks and economic cooperation will lead to further stability. By reducing nations’ fears about their borders and allowing them to spend less on military defences, our coalition for democracy can give nations in transition a better chance to offer new freedoms and opportunities to their own people. It is time that we think anew about the structures of this global economy as well, tearing down walls that separate nations instead of hiding behind them. At the Group of Seven meeting at Naples this year we committed ourselves to this task of renewal, to re- examining the economic institutions that have served us so well in the past. In the interests of shared prosperity, the United States actively promotes open markets. Though still in its infancy, the North American Free Trade Agreement has dramatically increased trade between the United States and Mexico and has produced in the United States alone an estimated 200,000 new jobs. It offers a model to nations throughout the Americas which we hope to build on. And this week I will send legislation to the Congress to implement the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the largest trade agreement in all of history. GATT - and its successor, the World Trade Organization - holds the promise for all of us of increased exports, higher wages and improved living standards. In the months and years to come we will work no less to extend the reach of open markets, starting with the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council and the Summit of the Americas later this year. Here at the United Nations we must develop a concrete plan to meet the challenges of the next 50 years even as we celebrate the last 50 years. I believe we 8 should declare next year’s fiftieth anniversary not just a year of celebration but a year of renewal. We call on the Secretary-General to name a working group so that by the time we meet next year we will have a concrete action plan to revitalize the obligations of the United Nations to address the security, economic and political challenges ahead - obligations we must all be willing to assume. Our objectives should include ready, efficient and capable United Nations peace-keeping forces, and I am happy to report that, as I pledged last year and thanks to support in the United States Congress, $1.2 billion is now available from the United States for this critical account. We must also pledge to keep United Nations reform moving forward so that we do more with less, and we must improve our ability to respond to urgent needs. Let me suggest that it is time for the members of the Assembly to consider seriously President Menem’s suggestion for the creation of a civilian rapid-response capability for humanitarian crises. And let us not lose sight of the special role that development and democracy can play in preventing conflicts once peace has been established. Never before has the United Nations been in a better position to achieve the democratic goals of our founders. The end of the cold war has freed us from decades of paralysing divisions. And we all know that multilateral cooperation is not only necessary to address the new threats we face but possible to succeed. The efforts we have undertaken together in Haiti are a prime example. Under the sponsorship of the United Nations, American troops, now being joined by the personnel of an ever-growing international coalition of over two dozen nations, are giving the people of Haiti their chance at freedom. Creative diplomacy, the influence of economic power and the credible threat of military force - all have contributed to this moment of opportunity. Essential civil order will be restored. Human rights violations will be curbed. The first refugees will be returning within hours, on this day. The military leaders will step down. The democratic Government will be restored. President Aristide will return. The multinational mission will turn its responsibilities over to the United Nations mission, which will remain in Haiti throughout 1995, until a new president is elected. During this time a multinational development effort will make available more than $1 billion to begin helping the Haitians rebuild their country. In the spirit of reconciliation and reconstruction, President Aristide yesterday called for the immediate easing of sanctions so that the work of rebuilding can begin immediately. Accordingly, I intend to act expeditiously, within Security Council resolutions 917 (1994) and 940 (1994) to enable us to restore health care, water and electrical services, construction materials for humanitarian efforts, and communications, agricultural and educational materials. Today I am also announcing that the United States will suspend all unilateral sanctions against Haiti except those that affect the military leaders and their immediate supporters. This will include regularly scheduled air flights when the airport becomes available, financial transactions and travel restrictions. I urge all other nations to do the same. In Haiti, the United States has demonstrated that it would lead a multinational force when our interests are plain, when the cause is right, when the mission is achievable and the nations of the world stand with us. But Haiti’s people will have to muster the strength and the patience to travel the road of freedom. They have to do this for themselves. Every new democratic nation is fragile. But we will see the day when the people of Haiti fulfil their aspirations to liberty and when they are once again making genuine economic progress. United Nations actions in Bosnia, like those in Haiti, demonstrate that progress can be made when a coalition backs up diplomacy with military power. For the first time ever, NATO has taken, since we met last year, military actions beyond the territory of its members. The threat of NATO air power helped to establish the exclusion zone around Sarajevo and to end the Bosnian Serbs’ spring offensive against Gorazde. NATO’s February ultimatum boosted our mediation efforts, which helped to end the war between the Bosnian Government and the Bosnian Croats and forged a federation between those two communities. To that extent the situation in Bosnia has improved, but in recent weeks the situation around Sarajevo has deteriorated substantially, and Sarajevo once again faces the prospect of strangulation. A new resolve by the United Nations to enforce its resolutions is now necessary to save Sarajevo, and NATO stands ready to act. The situation in Bosnia is yet another reminder of the greatest irony of this century we are leaving. This century, so full of hope and opportunity and achievement, has also been an age of deep destruction and despair. We cannot help but remember the millions who gave their lives during two world wars and the half century of 9 struggle by men and women in the East and West who ultimately prevailed in the name of freedom. But we must also think of our children and the world we will leave them in the twenty-first century. History has given us a very rare opportunity - the chance to build on the greatest legacy of this century without reliving its darkest moments. And we have shown that we can carry forward humanity’s ancient quest for freedom to build a world where democracy knows no borders but where nations know their borders will always be secure, a world that gives all people the chance to realize their potential and to live out their dreams. First of all allow me to say how pleased we are at your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Since you are such an eminent statesman, we are certain that this session will be a resounding success. We hail the work accomplished by Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, who presided over the recently concluded session of the General Assembly. We are grateful to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the Organization, for the fine job he is doing, reflecting his constant concern with helping to build a more just and progressive world society on the basis of the purposes and principles of the San Francisco Charter. This past May, the Panamanian people completed an irreproachable electoral process. The results now make it possible for us to undertake the democratic reconstruction of the State, with broad-based and cooperative participation by all of Panama’s various social groupings. This has made it possible for us to develop promising new relations of understanding and cooperation with the Government of the United States, grounded in a common resolve to fulfil on schedule the timetable established by the Torrijos-Carter Treaties on the Panama Canal and associated territories. Furthermore, we are seeking to extend our relations, as partners and friends of the United States, into fields that will facilitate the solution of regional and world problems affecting the stability of areas of common interest to both nations. With maturity, and an intense sense of dignity and patriotism, the Government of Panama is embarking on a new era in our relations with the United States. Thus these Treaties today are becoming once more for our two nations what we intended them to be when they were signed 17 years ago: the feasibility of a great Power and a small country working together, peacefully, to achieve mutually beneficial results on matters that previously gave rise to confrontation. Furthermore, this is in keeping with the principles of international law and gives us all new cause for hope concerning the new era the world is now seeking to establish. Pursuant to those Treaties, the Government headed by Mr. Ernesto Pérez Balladares intends in a responsible manner to put into effect the timetable of reversion to Panama of all the lands, waters and installations that form the Canal and its contiguous area. Similarly, we intend to ensure full demilitarization of the waterway and, consequently, we are planning as of now the prompt conversion of the foreign military installations there into industrial and trading posts of international interest, whose operations will be carried out just a few scant yards from the vessels that pass through day by day, heading towards all points of the compass. The decisions we have taken will ensure that this strip of territory will become one of the most attractive areas for investment in the Atlantic, the Americas, and the Pacific Basin. Despite Panama’s intense economic and cultural energy, it is a small country. Hence developing this project will require international cooperation. In the short term, the new Panamanian Government intends to coordinate this cooperation in order to take the best possible advantage of a tremendous potential. In this context, we shall convene in 1997 the World Congress on the Panama Canal to commemorate the twentieth anniversary of the signing of the Torrijos-Carter Treaties. This event will bring together the users of the Canal and the potential users of the associated facilities - shipbuilders, industrialists, financiers, technical experts, planners and leaders of higher education - to consider the scope and orchestration of the entire development project for the Panama Canal and the Panamanian nation. This Congress will also be an arena for the display of technology-, media- and communications-related products, as well as for interoceanic and intercontinental trade. It will therefore be of particular importance in gauging the scope of the new world trend which we now call 'globalization'. For this reason, we intend to plan this Congress with the cooperation of the United Nations as well as that of the two countries which, in their time, were engaged in the construction of the Canal - France and the United States. There is another facet to this situation, however. We Panamanians have convincingly proved our ability to efficiently administer and operate the existing Canal; we shall demonstrate this once again at the World Congress. Yet we wish to make further use of these skills, and this desire forms the basis for the projects tied in with the current, final phase of implementation of the Torrijos- Carter Treaties: by this, I mean the international university conglomerate that we call the 'Ciudad del Saber', 'the City of Knowledge'. In this area, and with the excellent infrastructure facilities that will soon revert 22 to Panama, we can bring together, in the best possible physical environment, faculties and departments of the major universities interested in studying subjects related to the next century and its prospects - subjects such as communications and telecommunications, naval and air transport, computer technology, international trade, the environment and sustainable development, as well as economic and business relations between our Americas and the Pacific basin. Thus conceived, the City of Knowledge will replace military bases and foreign soldiers with an international conglomerate of universities and a great army of students and teachers from all corners of the world. This will be the best possible way to celebrate the end of the cold war and the development of new world circumstances, while at the same time making the new era accessible to many thousands of our young people. We are certain that this project will receive the necessary international cooperation and the support of the United Nations system. There is another issue of similar, worldwide interest that deserves the attention of this forum. Although it is an interoceanic passageway, the Panama Canal is fed exclusively by fresh water. For this reason, its existence, the quality of its services and the possibility of expanding them depend on the renewal of its forests and the attention to the environment that is indispensable to feeding its basin, guaranteeing the water supply and making it possible for the Canal to operate. This basin has suffered disturbing deterioration, which, should it continue, could jeopardize the services provided to the world by the Canal. Conscious of its responsibilities, our country has begun a series of national and international consultations with a view to devising a campaign that would secure the technical and financial resources needed to ensure the environmental conditions required for the improvement and optimal use of the Canal. This campaign could perhaps serve as a symbol of international cooperation in ensuring appropriate use of resources necessary to mankind. Our country has recently rejoined the Rio Group - of which we were one of the initial promoters - as a full member. With respect to foreign policy, we fully concur with the purposes, declarations and agreements adopted by this group. We Panamanians are sincerely resolved to expand our political dialogue and economic cooperation with neighbouring countries. To this end, we are pursuing the process of integration with the countries of Central America in all ways that can be mutually beneficial. Because of its history and traditions, as well as for reasons of geographical proximity and economic affinity, Panama will be promoting links and integration with its South American neighbours, with which it shares the ideals of Bolivar. At the same time, the great trading opportunities afforded us as a result of the reversion of the Panama Canal and its adjacent areas make it incumbent on us to strengthen our links with the countries of the Pacific basin, and to work together on projects and activities of mutual benefit. For similar reasons, Panama, which already has a special relationship with the United States - a relationship that is taking on special significance today - intends to seek membership in the North American Free Trade Association, whose current members, Canada, the United States and Mexico, are certain to play a significant role in ensuring the best possible use of the Canal areas that will revert to Panama. In recent times, the international community has noted symptoms of repeated crises in certain parts of the Caribbean area. Indeed, on certain specific conditions, Panama has offered parts of its national territory to help provide a temporary solution to the problem of the Haitian and Cuban raft and boat people. This gesture has been motivated solely by humanitarian considerations, without political or diplomatic implications. We shall continue to act in this manner, especially when it is useful in providing a grace period during which a peaceful, and agreed solution to the underlying causes of these problems may be found. In the case of Haiti, my Government is particularly gratified that an agreement was reached which allowed for the landing of multinational forces in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolution and without the trauma of an invasion by force. We believe, none the less, that Haiti’s problems will be solved only when all aspects of the Security Council resolution are fully implemented and, in terms of socio-economic issues, provided the international community helps eradicate the causes of the poverty and backwardness which persist there. With respect to the situation in the fraternal Republic of Cuba, we believe that the causes underlying the 23 conflict must be addressed. For this reason, my Government favours reforms which, through the exercise of self-determination, would guarantee the establishment of a multi-party democracy there. Furthermore, my Government is in favour of lifting the economic embargo that is such a burden on that country. Only by acting simultaneously on both fronts will it be possible to overcome this crisis. We are fully ready to assist the fraternal Caribbean nation of Cuba. With the conclusion of the cold war, the world is focusing most of its attention on other problems, new and old, which now make up the world agenda - problems such as the current restructuring of systems of economic relations and international politics. It must be stressed that in the handling of the phenomena known as 'globalization', it is vital to establish a new order which will take into account the realities, interests, sovereign rights, and just aspirations of the small countries and the developing nations in general. Any development which, out of selfishness, indifference, inattention, or the like, fails to meet this requirement, will inevitably condemn us to a world riddled with yet further imbalance, marginalization and instability. Mankind’s hopes for the twenty-first century will be realized only if together we are able to build a much fairer, more equitable and more balanced future. This applies to all countries, be they rich or poor, weak or strong. Specifically, such a future requires that we embark immediately on a vigorous programme of common and coordinated actions to eradicate mankind’s greatest problem: poverty. Panama declares again today, before the Assembly, that it is willing to join the international programmes to combat poverty and promote solidarity and social equity, as well as those aimed at promoting a better quality of life for the sectors that are most deprived and least fairly treated. In particular, Panama will commit itself to efforts to improve the social situation of the family and of women and children. In respect of this universal aspiration, women in Panama have already attained positions of relative importance in both political and professional arenas. Today, for the first time in the history of our Republic, the deserving President of our legislative organ is a woman who is a popular leader, while in our last elections another prominent female politician was a candidate for the presidency of the Republic of Panama, and she now leads the major opposition party. We are also proud to see Panamanian professional women serving in the Cabinet of Mr. Ernesto Pérez Balladares and as judges on our Supreme Court of Justice. In short, women in Panama play a leading and powerful role in all aspects of our political and private life, and they are often at the forefront of our technical, scientific and professional development. For this reason we shall continue to support actions that make it possible for women to achieve full and effective equality of rights and opportunities in an increasingly competitive world. On another question, my country has decided to tackle firmly and unequivocally the problems of drug- trafficking, money-laundering and terrorism. We are currently devising a strategy to combat these terrible evils that imperil the very existence of our nations. We favour the development of joint, coordinated action on the international level. The community of nations faces a great challenge in these grave problems, and we fervently appeal to the Governments and the peoples of Latin America to create a powerful organization to combat them. In another area, Panama is particularly attentive to the discussions aimed at defining a new role for the United Nations and the corresponding structural reforms this world Organization requires. With regard specifically to the structure of the United Nations, Panama believes it is necessary to increase the representativity of its most important decision-making bodies. In particular, my country believes that the Security Council must be enlarged. Panama wishes to reiterate that, whatever approach is taken, Latin America’s participation in that body should be increased and Latin American countries should be given consideration as possible permanent members. I am pleased to state that the new democratic Government of Panama fully accepts the commitment to bolster and enhance its presence in international agencies, where it is a Latin American and Caribbean voice that remains faithful to the rightful aspirations of the developing countries. This decision is reflected in the speech delivered by Ernesto Pérez Balladares when he was sworn in as my country’s President. He said: 'This is the new face that Panama is showing to its friends abroad. We are no longer at the stage of seeking solidarity on the Canal Treaty in order to regain the benefits of our geographic position. Now we want to begin our participation in the new world that is challenging us all and to make known the 24 potentialities of our geographic position, our desire to take advantage of all opportunities properly, fairly and respectfully, in the pursuit of an aggressive foreign policy free of complexes and capable of helping us surmount the challenges of the next century. We are friends to all. We are foes of none.' We look with optimism on the development of mankind and, in particular, that of my country. We will pass the baton to our young people on our country’s path of progress, peace and justice. Finally, on this occasion I also take pleasure in wishing you, Mr. President, every success in your task of leading the General Assembly. On behalf of the Government and the people of Fiji, I warmly congratulate His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Given his vast experience and his knowledge of the United Nations system, I have every confidence that the current session of the Assembly will complete its work successfully. I also wish to pay a special tribute to the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, for the excellent and efficient manner in which he conducted the business of the Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Most of the problems afflicting the world community that have been discussed in this Assembly in previous years continue unchanged. A survey of the world scene readily discloses that no region of the world is free from tension; that the economic divide between the rich and the poor continues to widen; that political and social upheavals in many parts of the world are getting extremely difficult and expensive to contain; and that poverty and despair remain the lot of a substantial part of the world’s population. There is an urgent need to address these problems in a comprehensive and timely manner. The piecemeal approach that we have adopted so far only tends to plug the hole and does not eliminate the causes. Moreover, our efforts are invariably made after an event has occurred, and often when our conscience cannot bear to see the misery on our television screens. We must devise ways for a more preventive approach to the problems. Political problems are often a consequence of economic and social problems. The General Assembly’s decision at its forty-seventh session to convene a World Summit for Social Development at Copenhagen early in 1995 was very timely. While we have seen some significant advances in human rights and democracy in many parts of the world, and positive developments towards reducing the potential for regional conflicts in other areas, the fact remains that in both developed and developing countries new challenges to international peace and security are manifesting themselves under a broad plethora of social development problems. We can no longer turn a blind eye to the increasing growth of poverty and unemployment and the attendant marginalization of peoples. Annually, between 13 to 18 million people die from starvation, disease and famine. It has been estimated that world wide one out of every five people live below the poverty line. While Governments, in many cases, equivocate on how to solve this problem, the poor increasingly look to the United Nations to find effective, immediate and practical solutions. To ignore this reality is to deny that it constitutes a real source of political instability. Indeed, the Security council has expressed the view that “peace and prosperity are indivisible and that lasting peace and stability require effective international cooperation for the eradication of poverty and the promotion of a better life for all in larger freedom.” (S/23500, p. 5) 26 These views are buttressed by the prophetic words of the Nobel laureate Ralph Bunche who, as long ago as 1950, said: “Peace is no mere matter of men fighting or not fighting. Peace, to have meaning for many who have known only suffering in both peace and war, must be translated into bread or rice, shelter, health and education, as well as freedom and human dignity — a steadily better life. If peace is to be secure, long- suffering and long-starved peoples of the world, the underprivileged and the undernourished, must begin to realize without delay the promise of a new day and a new life.” While these words were uttered in a different context, I would suggest that they encapsulate the whole reason for the social Summit. My Government will actively support and work in cooperation with other countries to achieve the objectives of the World Summit for Social Development. My Government looks forward to playing an active role in the forthcoming World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing next September. Fiji has always recognized the important contribution of women to society and to the development process in general. In 1987, the Fiji Government established a Ministry of Women. A Department on Women and Culture, which operates under the purview of this Ministry, carries the responsibility of monitoring improvements in the status of women. It seeks to encourage the private and public sectors to address the needs of women in their policies and programmes. It is also the Government’s policy to assign 50 per cent of representation in training, appointments and promotions at all levels of the civil service to women, on the basis of preference and merit. The Government encourages the same in the private sector. I might also mention that all three women members of the House of Representatives in Fiji are Ministers in the Cabinet. My Government will continue to enhance and uplift the status of women. It is in the process of ratifying the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Fiji will also explore membership of the Commission on the Status of Women, in keeping with its policy of strengthening the role of women in the country’s national development plans. On the issue of gender equity, it is my belief that in order that the principles enshrined in the first Article of the Charter of the United Nations to be achieved, the equal participation of women in the Secretariat of this Organization, on an equitable regional basis, must continue to be implemented and be given urgent priority. My country was pleased to have participated in the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in Barbados earlier this year. In short, the Conference was convened because of a universal recognition of the problems faced by small island developing States in achieving sustainable development goals. While the Barbados Conference was important in re-emphasizing the special environmental and economic circumstances of small island States, my delegation wishes to reiterate that the Conference was only the beginning of a process. We must now act to implement the Barbados Programme of Action and Declaration. In this connection, we would urge the international community, and particularly those countries with developed and industrialized economies, to respond to the invitation to enhance and promote human resource development programmes in small island developing countries. Increased technical assistance will enhance the institutional and administrative capacity of small island countries to implement the Programme of Action. One of the ways in which this can be brought about is by the provision of new and additional financial resources in accordance with Chapter 33 of Agenda 21. Unless creative and supportive international responses to the special challenges faced by small island developing countries in planning for sustainable development are urgently stimulated, I fear that their continuing vulnerability to both physical and socio-economic forces will increase. In this context it is opportune to remind the global community to fulfil the commitments it made at Rio some two years ago. We are on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations. My country strongly supports the principles contained in the Charter and I would like to reaffirm our support for the Organization. Over the past 50 years, the Organization has seen many changes. Its membership has increased from 51 to the present 184. With the end of the cold war, it has assumed a more central role in world affairs. There is an ever-increasing demand on the limited resources of the Organization and, in particular, on its Secretariat. We support the Secretariat and commend the adjustments it is making in order to respond to the changing needs of the international community. We urge the Secretariat to continue to pursue the goals of efficiency and cost-effectiveness. In this regard, my Government 27 welcomes the creation of the Office of Internal Oversight Services. We believe this to be an important innovation that will contribute to greater efficiency within the United Nations system. We fully support the continuing efforts to bring about greater transparency and accountability on the part of the United Nations management and institutional structures. In the same vein, Mr. President, my Government supports the view that it is now time that the current structure and the membership of the Security Council were reviewed. With the very large increase in the membership of the United Nations since it was founded, with the changes that have occurred on the global political scene in recent years, and with the nature of problems that must be resolved by the United Nations, including the diverse facets of economic, environmental and peace-keeping and peace-monitoring issues, we agree that there is now a need to consider an enlarged Security Council with more equitable representation of membership to look at these issues more comprehensively. In this regard, we welcome the report of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council (A/48/47) in response to General Assembly resolution 48/26 of 3 December 1993, and the recommendation that the Open-Ended Working Group should continue its work. In the event that membership of the Security Council is expanded, Fiji fully supports the membership of Japan, recognizing its important role not only as a valued neighbour in the Asia-Pacific region, but also as a key player in the global economy. My Government has followed with close and keen interest, meetings of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Elaboration of an International Convention dealing with the Safety and Security of United Nations and Associated Personnel. We consider the United Nations staff and associated personnel who participate in various missions sponsored by the United Nations as an integral and essential part of those missions. We have seen their courage in Cambodia, Rwanda, the former Yugoslavia and other places around the world. If the United Nations is to continue to rely on individual men and women to assist in carrying out the mandates of its various organs, it is only fair and fitting that we should provide them with an adequate level of safety and security. At its last session, the Ad Hoc Committee worked very constructively and made significant progress. However, it is important for the Ad Hoc Committee to conclude its work as soon as possible and we urge that this be done. We have a very real interest in the conclusion of this convention since in as much as Fiji has lost some of its nationals in various peace-keeping operations, and many others have been injured. For us, therefore, peace-keeping has come at a high price. It involves the sacrifices, not only of individuals, but also of the families left behind. But my Government remains unshaken in its belief that the price we have paid and are continuing to pay for our involvement in United Nations peace-keeping operations would have been worthwhile if we have contributed towards making the world a safer place. We owe this to our children and to our children’s children. At the present time, there are at least l,000 troops from Fiji serving in various peace-keeping operations - in Lebanon, Sinai, Iraq, Kuwait and Rwanda. Only recently we agreed to participate in the regional peace-keeping force in Bougainville in Papua New Guinea. This was in direct response to a request we received from the Government of Papua New Guinea, with the support of the relevant parties in Bougainville. Our participation in the South Pacific regional peace-keeping force for Bougainville is in concert with our other neighbours in the South Pacific, namely Tonga, Vanuatu, Solomon Islands, Australia and New Zealand. Our participation is also for a specific purpose, and that is to assist the Government of Papua New Guinea and the relevant parties on Bougainville in facilitating a secure environment in which they will be able to hold a peace conference and, through dialogue, achieve a consensus on the future of Bougainville. Let me say that our commitment to peace-keeping is a continuing affirmation of our belief that the purposes and principles set forth in the United Nations Charter must be given practical expression. Fiji, as a responsible member of the international community, will continue to play its role in the enhancement of global peace and security. On the subject of peace-keeping, I want at this time to express my Government’s satisfaction at the strengthening of the Department of Peace-keeping Operations. I believe that continued innovations in the institutional structure of this Department will be necessary if it is to play a meaningful and effective role in support of United Nations peace-keeping activities. This year marks an important milestone in the development of the international law of the sea. Fiji was the first State to ratify the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. We are therefore pleased that, 12 years after its adoption, the Convention will enter into force on 16 November 1994. The 28 Convention represents a historic achievement by the international community. It will establish the rule of law over more than two-thirds of the Earth’s surface, and promote its peaceful use. Like many other States, Fiji has already been implementing the provisions of the Convention, through its Marine Spaces Act. Entry into force of the Convention would thus consolidate our claims to the archipelagic waters, the territorial sea and the exclusive economic zone. Fiji has always supported universal participation in the Convention. We therefore welcome the conclusion of the Agreement to resolve the outstanding issues relating to the deep seabed mining part of the Convention, part XI. As at the Conference on the Law of the Sea, our delegation, together with other delegations, was pleased to play an active and constructive role in bringing about that important agreement. We have signed the agreement and will become a party to it. We urge all States that have not done so to become parties to the Convention and to the new Agreement in order to achieve the goal of universal participation. Associated with the law of the sea is the important Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. Fish is an invaluable gift of nature to man. However, man’s unregulated and indiscriminate exploitation of this vital resource is rapidly depleting or destroying it. Fish is an important national and regional resource and it is a staple in our diet. In addition to other species, some 40 per cent of the world’s tuna is to be found in the south- west Pacific region. We are therefore concerned at the long-term impact on these resources and on the marine eco- system as a whole, if the current practice of uncontrolled fishing, especially on the high seas, continues. The Conference has been organized to address the urgent problems facing us with regard to the conservation and management of fisheries around the world. These problems must be addressed from the perspective of both present and future generations. Fiji therefore strongly supports an effective outcome from the Conference, an outcome that would ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of the fish resources of the seas and oceans. Our delegation, in cooperation with other delegations to the Conference, will spare no effort in working towards this goal. We are grateful for the confidence shown in our country by our election as Chairman of the Conference. Since the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, we have witnessed positive and constructive developments in the Middle East peace process. It is almost a year now since the Declaration of Principles was signed between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). This was followed by the agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area signed at Cairo in May this year. The recent peace accord between Israel and Jordan, which was signed at Washington last July, was another very positive development. My Government lends its support to the Middle East peace process. In particular, we express the hope that the ongoing bilateral negotiations between Israel and Jordan and between Israel and the Palestinians will continue. We are also hopeful that the present dialogue between Syria, Lebanon and Israel will eventually lead to further agreements. I would now like to mention a number of issues in my own region, the South Pacific. One is New Caledonia. While some positive developments have been taking place in New Caledonia in relation to the continued implementation of the Matignon Accords, I believe that there is still a need to accelerate the process of redressing social and economic imbalances in the territory. In this connection, my Government will continue to observe developments in New Caledonia with keen interest in the build-up to the referendum to be held in 1998. Nuclear issues and transboundary movements of hazardous and radioactive wastes are also of considerable concern to us in the South Pacific region. Fiji has long been a consistent opponent of nuclear testing anywhere and in any environment. Our opposition to such testing is by no means based only on environmental concerns. For hundreds of years, the livelihood of our people has depended on their limited land and on the resources in the marine environment. Fundamentally, our abhorrence of nuclear arms and nuclear testing is based on the belief that there is simply no place for nuclear weapons in our region, or indeed in any other part of the world. In this connection, we have been pleased to note the temporary cessation of nuclear testing in the Pacific region by France, and would urge the French Government to agree to a permanent moratorium on testing in the South Pacific. Fiji is a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We believe that the Treaty represents a unique achievement in the promotion of global peace and security and in the reduction of the threat of nuclear warfare. The Pacific region has long recognized and embraced the principles enshrined in the Treaty, and these principles are now reflected in the Treaty of Rarotonga, which establishes the South Pacific as a nuclear-free zone. We would, in this regard, encourage the United States, the United Kingdom and France to accede to the Protocols to the Treaty of 29 Rarotonga as a demonstration of their commitment to nuclear non-proliferation and to a ban on testing in the South Pacific. We are equally concerned about the transboundary movements — and, in particular, about the sea transit through the region — of consignments of plutonium from Europe to Japan. For obvious reasons, we object very strongly to this development and earnestly hope that there will be no more such shipments through the region. The countries of the South Pacific region are also currently in the process of negotiating a regional convention to ban the importation into the island States of the South Pacific Forum of hazardous wastes and to control their transboundary movement and management within the South Pacific region. My country fully supports this initiative and is actively engaged in the negotiation process. The convention is expected to be adopted in mid-1995. This will further strengthen our resolve to keep the South Pacific region free of radioactive and hazardous wastes. At the national level, the Government of Fiji has commenced work on the review of the country’s 1990 Constitution. The members of the Parliamentary Select Committee on the Review of the Constitution have already been announced. They have been drawn from both sides of the House of Representatives and from the Senate, and represent all the racial groups in our population. As Chairman of that Committee, the Minister for Foreign Affairs with Special Responsibilities on Constitutional Review, Senator Filipe N. Bole, had a fruitful meeting of the Committee only a few days ago. Last November, the Cabinet agreed to the timetable for the review of the Constitution, following the approval, by Parliament, of the terms of reference of the Constitution Review Commission. Because of the general elections that were held in Fiji in February of this year, the review process has been slightly delayed, but it is expected that the substantive work of the Commission will begin soon after the Commission has been appointed, which will be done shortly. Fiji has a very small, export-oriented economy that cannot isolate itself from the vagaries of the global economy. We are less able to absorb adverse trends in external economic conditions than are larger and more diversified economies; equally, an improvement in the global economy is slow to be reflected in our own small economy. Like many small developing countries, we are still in the process of gradual recovery following a prolonged downturn that afflicted the world as a whole. Like many countries, we have had to adjust our economic policies in such a way as to give them a more market-oriented approach. This has involved the following fundamentals: less interference with the market; recognition that the Government cannot do everything and that the private sector is the engine for development, which the Government must complement rather than compete with; and the encouragement of, and reward for, entrepreneurship, skills, abilities and hard work. In this manner we are proceeding with the deregulation of the economy to bring domestic prices more closely into line with world prices; restraining the growth of Government expenditure to ensure availability of resources for growth in the private sector; reforming the system of direct and indirect taxation to minimize market distortions and improve incentives for risk-taking and effort; implementing wage policies that recognize the paramount importance of maintaining international competitiveness; and mobilizing all sectors of the community in support of economic expansion. These constitute a package of mutually self-reinforcing policies. In a world that is economically interlinked and in which we are all economically interdependent, no country, however well-intentioned its national efforts might be, can sustain itself without support and interaction from outside. This is true of large, diversified economies, and it is certainly true for small, isolated economies such as ours. Our internal efforts to create a better economic climate, if not supported by external investments, will not succeed. Nor will they succeed if we are denied or prevented from getting access to markets of more developed countries. Our efforts, therefore, depend considerably on investment from outside and on access for our products to traditional and new markets. In this regard, we express our gratitude to our developed neighbouring countries for the consideration they have given to some of our exports. We believe, however, that in the spirit of regional cooperation and better balance in trade the present arrangements must be further improved. In our efforts to develop our economy, we also count on the support and understanding of our good friends and partners in our neighbouring region of Asia. We value our increasing contacts and economic relations, particularly with the countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, Malaysia, the People’s Republic of China, the Republic of Korea and Taiwan, and we are confident that these relations will continue to be strengthened in the future. Our Prime Minister, the Honourable Major-General Sitiveni Rabuka, greatly appreciated the warm welcome 30 that he received during his recent visit to the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan. Fiji remains committed to its official relations with the People’s Republic of China but also greatly values its trade and economic cooperation with Taiwan. It is our sincere hope that the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan, in continued direct talks and negotiations, will be able to reach agreement on a practicable basis on which to strengthen and expand cooperation between them, including cooperation in the international arena. The establishment of the South Pacific Forum in 1971 was an early initiative taken by Fiji following its independence, together with Australia, the Cook Islands, Nauru, New Zealand, Tonga and Western Samoa. The Forum now has 15 members, and it meets at the level of Heads of Government. The Forum originated from the desire of our leaders to develop collective responses on a wide range of regional issues, including trade, economic development, civil aviation, maritime, telecommunications, energy, environmental, and political and security matters. One significant recent development is the post-Forum dialogue: immediately after a Forum meeting, the Forum island countries meet separately with their more developed trade and economic partners to discuss development priorities and constraints in the region. The post-Forum dialogue partners include Canada, the People’s Republic of China, France, Japan, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and the United States. From our perspective as small island nations whose economies, to remain viable, depend to a very large extent on economic ties with these larger and more vigorous economies, we value these discussions and are confident that they will continue. In a wider context, we of the South Pacific Forum believe that it is important and indeed mutually beneficial for the Forum Secretariat to be more closely associated with the United Nations. For this reason, the Forum members have decided to seek Observer status in this Organization for the South Pacific Forum Secretariat. We urge the General Assembly to give favourable consideration to this request. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to express, from this rostrum, the appreciation and profound thanks of my Government and people to the Secretary- General, the staff of the United Nations and its various organizations and agencies for their continued support for, and technical assistance to, our national development, and indeed, for the numerous development projects in our region as a whole. In these times, when valuable resources for development purposes are becoming more and more scarce and difficult to come by, I wish to assure the donors and agencies that my Government will manage and utilize these scarce resources carefully and effectively. It is an honour for me to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to your high office. As the United Nations approaches its fiftieth anniversary, its global agenda is more comprehensive than ever before. Norway welcomes this. We need and support an even stronger United Nations role in the peaceful settlement of disputes; preventive diplomacy and peace-keeping; the advocacy of human rights, including women’s rights; and humanitarian aid, sustainable development and environmental protection. We wish to see this forty-ninth session of the General Assembly make tangible contributions towards improving the Organization’s performance in all these important areas. As we assemble this year, we can look back on concrete results in several areas following years of strong United Nations involvement. In particular, it is with deep satisfaction that we now welcome the newly elected Government of South Africa to this year’s session of the General Assembly. This is a historic moment, both for South Africa and for the United Nations. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the South African people. They have put a painful past behind them and have charted a new course. Without the strong support of the United Nations, the democratization process in South Africa would undoubtedly have been slower. Norway’s political and economic support for the democratic forces dates back to the 1960s and 1970s. We will continue to support the South African people by working with the democratically elected Government. A democratic, prosperous South Africa will have a positive impact on the whole African continent. Common security and cooperation can now replace front lines and confrontation. We hope that South Africa will be in a position to contribute substantially to conflict-resolution and peace-keeping. 16 The historic developments in South Africa have been paralleled in the peace process in the Middle East. Two weeks ago we observed the anniversary of the signing by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) of the Declaration of Principles, following talks in Oslo. During the past year the peace process has been further consolidated. It was a source of great satisfaction to us that, one year to the day after the signing, and once again in Oslo, the parties were able to iron out certain differences which had been obstructing the peace process. I would like to compliment both Israel and the PLO on their determination to follow through on the commitments they have made. However, the commitment of the parties alone is not enough. The international community must shoulder its responsibilities, and I appeal urgently to Member States for contributions, especially to meet the short-term needs of the Palestinian Authority. In our capacity as Chair of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee, we shall continue to work both with donor countries and with the parties themselves to ensure that the peace dividend benefits Palestinians in their daily lives. In our view, the United Nations should take on new responsibilities with respect to channelling economic assistance to the Palestinians, especially to the Palestinian police force. The General Assembly must also address the new relationship that has developed between Israel and the Palestinians. Our deliberations and decisions on Middle East matters must reflect the new reality created by the parties themselves. In Guatemala the peace process has now reached a turning point. The very active and constructive role played by the United Nations has led to significant advances at the negotiating table this year. Norway, as a member of the Group of Friends, would like to commend the Government of Guatemala, the URNG and the Guatemalan people on the important agreements signed in Puebla and in Oslo. We now urge the parties to keep up the momentum of the negotiating process. Norway will contribute to the human rights verification Mission to Guatemala. It is our hope that this Mission will encourage the parties to resume the peace negotiations without further delay. In the former Yugoslavia the tragedy continues. Yet another chapter in the endless human suffering caused by the war is unfolding. Thousands of Muslims are being forced to leave their homes in Serb-held territory in north-eastern Bosnia, adding to the countless numbers from all groups that have been displaced during this conflict. Reports tell us of detention, rape and plunder. We appeal to the parties to the conflict to stop this senseless brutality, and we welcome last week’s Security Council resolution which strongly condemns this practice. While we continue to press for a political settlement, we must keep up the humanitarian relief efforts for the victims of this meaningless conflict. A lasting peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be achieved only by political means, not by military force. The Contact Group’s proposal has our full support,and the Bosnian Serbs must be persuaded to accept this package deal. The decision made by the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) to sever all political and economic ties with the Bosnian Serbs is a step in the right direction. We welcome the initiative taken by the co-chairmen, Lord Owen and Thorvald Stoltenberg, to deploy an international mission on the border between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Norway has already contributed personnel and is also involved in the logistics of this operation. Security Council resolution 943 (1994) of 23 September 1994 on sanctions demonstrates, therefore, the resolve of the international community to press for a political settlement. As we press for negotiated solutions both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Croatia, it is also incumbent on the outside world to do nothing that can prolong the conflict or cause it to escalate. The flow of arms into the former Yugoslavia must be halted. The arms embargo must not be lifted now, for this could have unforeseeable consequences and would certainly endanger the UNPROFOR troops and jeopardize humanitarian relief efforts. Peace-keeping activities constitute the most important tool at the disposal of the United Nations for resolving conflicts and promoting peace. Norway advocates strengthening such functions. As Member States, we must be willing to enable the United Nations to do in the field what we profess to support in the conference rooms. Nearly 1 per cent of the entire Norwegian population has participated in peace-keeping operations. It is important that the Organization’s capability of conducting peace-keeping operations be continuously enhanced. At last year’s session of the General Assembly, the Nordic countries presented an initiative to strengthen United Nations command and control 17 capabilities in peace-keeping operations. I feel encouraged by the progress made on various related issues during the last 12 months. However, there is room for further improvement. These matters should be treated with some urgency. Proper communication between the Security Council and the troop-contributing countries is particularly important. While we acknowledge the improvements already made in this respect, we still feel that further progress is needed. I propose that regular consultations and information-sharing be instituted between members of the Security Council, the troop-contributing countries and the Secretariat of the United Nations. A new role for regional organizations in conflict resolution and securing peace is emerging, not only in Europe but also in other parts of the world. In Europe the European Union is playing an increasingly important role as it develops its political and economic contacts in an all-European context. Nothing could be more worthwhile than transforming Europe, the cradle of two world wars, into a continent with a solid framework of political, economic, social and cultural cooperation across the old divides. Hence, the European Union is shaping the future of Europe in a significant manner - and is indeed also making important contributions in a global perspective. These are two major reasons why Norway is seeking membership in the European Union. Regional organizations should take on more responsibility for peace-keeping in the future. Nevertheless, we must not confuse the growing need for regional action with the fundamental role of the Security Council as the main guardian of international peace and security. Nowhere have peace and security been more systematically set aside during the last year than in Africa. The genocide we have witnessed in Rwanda has shocked the entire world, and has brutally reminded us of the horrifying behaviour such conflicts may generate. We are deeply committed to the principle that those charged with crimes against humanity must be brought to trial. More than ever, Africa needs our support to overcome the prevailing crises. I welcome the increasingly important role played by the Organization of African Unity. Norway stands ready to support regional processes to encourage closer cooperation among African nations with a view to accelerating economic growth and democratization. Social and economic problems are closely linked to conflict and unrest. A global perspective is needed if solutions are to be found and progress made. No other organization has the potential of the United Nations to provide such a perspective. Development-related economic and social issues must remain high on the United Nations agenda. I therefore welcome the Secretary-General’s preliminary report on an Agenda for Development. The five dimensions of development singled out in the report provide a useful framework for thought as well as action. Peace, economic growth, the environment, justice and democracy are indeed the key parameters in our common drive towards a better world for all. We are now looking forward to the Secretary- General’s supplementary report, which we hope will initiate a debate on the appropriate role of the United Nations in global efforts for development, based on the comparative advantages of the Organization. The International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo will be looked upon as a turning point in the history of population policy as it relates to social development and women’s rights. The conclusions will have a wide-ranging impact on democracy-building, educational policies, health-care programmes and the status of women. Both that Conference and next year’s World Summit for Social Development and the Fourth World Conference on the Status of Women represent milestones in the effort to renew our commitment to fulfilling basic human needs. At the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in 1992, we pledged to commit ourselves to fulfilling the challenges of Agenda 21. These include strengthening efforts to change present unsustainable patterns of consumption and production, particularly in the industrialized world. I should like to emphasize the importance of this issue. Norway will continue to promote the efforts of the Commission on Sustainable Development in this respect. Over the years, the United Nations has taken on an increasingly important role in the field of human rights. For us, this remains a high-priority issue. The close link between democracy, human rights and development has been brought home to us once again by the tragedy of Haiti. Norway fully supports Security Council resolution 940 (1994) and will contribute to restoring democracy and human rights in the troubled country of Haiti. 18 The establishment of the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights was warmly welcomed by the Norwegian Government. All countries must now cooperate fully with the new High Commissioner. Regrettably, the past year has once again seen unacceptable violations of human rights in many countries, resulting in untold human suffering. We urge all States to ensure that minimum standards for the protection of basic human rights are observed at all times, even during internal conflicts and disturbances. Freedom of expression is a fundamental human right. My Government remains deeply concerned by the continued threat voiced against Salman Rushdie and all those associated with his works. We repeat our call to the Iranian authorities to remove this extra-territorial and intolerable threat. For years disarmament and arms control have been central to our deliberations. Today we are facing new challenges in this field. The need for a comprehensive ban on all nuclear testing is indeed a top priority issue. We expect all nuclear Powers to refrain from testing during the ongoing negotiations. Substantial results should be achieved before the 1995 Non-Proliferation Treaty Conference. This would facilitate the indefinite and unconditional extension of the Treaty, which is another item of the utmost importance on our arms control agenda. The increased risk of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, of nuclear and chemical material, associated technology and means of delivery is a major security challenge that we must take steps to eliminate. The recent attempts to conduct an illegal trade in nuclear material are alarming and demand immediate action. Increasingly, our security is threatened by the enormous deposits of nuclear waste on land and at sea. We must do everything within our power to counter this risk. The Nordic countries and Russia are planning an international conference on nuclear waste management, in cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). In order to deal with these problems, substantial financial and technological resources will be required. To this end, Norway has proposed the establishment of an international action plan for nuclear waste management, matched by an international fund similar to the nuclear safety account in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We call upon the international community to mobilize the resources necessary to deal effectively with these problems. Before concluding, I would like to draw attention to a matter of great concern to Norway: the necessity to ensure a rational, responsible exploitation of marine resources. This should indeed be a matter of importance to all countries, whether they are coastal States or landlocked. Norway is deeply concerned by the increasing problem of excessive exploitation of straddling and highly migratory fish stocks through unregulated fishing on the high seas. The effectiveness of conservation measures is thus being eroded, and the recovery of stocks is being halted or even reversed by States claiming free access to such stocks. The situation calls for urgent and effective legally-binding measures to counter the threat to important fish stocks and the coastal communities directly dependent on them. Therefore, the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks will be crucial in this respect. All of us, coastal and fishing States alike, share the responsibility for ensuring that the Conference succeeds in establishing a solid foundation for the long-term conservation and sustainable use of these fish stocks. In closing, I would like to emphasize the fundamental importance of a sound financial basis for the United Nations to perform its work. It is incumbent on all of us to do what we can in this respect. As we approach next year’s anniversary, we owe it to the founders to ensure that the Organization they created - our most important custodian of international peace and global security - is in the possession of the necessary means to discharge all its obligations. It is a pleasure for me to speak for the first time in the General Assembly and to convey to its members the warm greetings of the people and the Government of the Republic of Guinea. I should like to take this opportunity to convey to you. Sir, heartfelt congratulations on your notable election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty- ninth session. It is an honor to your country, Cote d’Ivoire, and to us the citizens of Guinea it is a fitting reflection of the trust that the international community places in the continent of Africa. I am convinced that your wisdom and your qualities as an experienced and competent diplomat will ensure the success of our work. My delegation assures you of its full support. I should also like to congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana, who conducted the business of the forty-eighth session in such a masterly and intelligent manner. I want also to pay well-deserved tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the tireless efforts he has made and the determination he has shown since his election to achieve the noble objectives assigned to the United Nations. His devotion to peace and the promotion of international cooperation at a time marked by many complex changes guarantees the Organization's victory over the challenges facing humanity. My Government welcomes South Africa's long- awaited return to this Organization following the dismantling of apartheid and the holding of the first multiracial, pluralist elections. The forty-ninth session is being held at a time that is very favorable for the strengthening of international relations, thanks to more constructive dialog. However, a quick look at the international scene shows that we are still far from the ideal of peace. Indeed, as soon as the bells of peace announced the end of the cold war the evil spirits were awakened. Here and there warlords are stirring up tension, bringing tragedy to innocent victims - in particular, the elderly, women and children. In Liberia, Rwanda, Somalia, Bosnia, Afghanistan and Angola - to refer to just some countries - killing, rape and destruction are going on. We are all concerned, yet we all seem to be powerless. It is regrettable that most of this tragedy is being played out in Africa, a continent already sorely tried by economic crises, natural disasters and forced migration. My delegation believes that the international community as a whole, and this Organization in particular, should act with greater firmness and unity to put an end to this tragic situation. For five years now, fratricidal conflicts have plunged Liberia into chaos and desolation. This conflict's damaging consequences for neighboring States have become unbearable. Despite the efforts of the Economic Community of West African States, the Organization of African Unity and the international community to secure the effective implementation of the many peace plans, the latest of which is the Akosombo, Ghana, plan, the crisis continues. My Government makes an urgent appeal to the international community to become more energetically involved in the quest for a final solution to this conflict. Other regions of the world too are experiencing the same difficulties that threaten international peace and security. The Government of Guinea encourages the United Nations to continue its efforts to restore peace, and urges the parties to various conflicts to demonstrate wisdom by choosing dialog. I am thinking in particular of the situations in the Middle East and on the Korean peninsula. Once again, only a proper political approach, taking account of the specific values of the parties concerned and of the political and material needs of the populations, will produce the conditions for lasting peace. I welcome the positive developments in the Middle East, exemplified by the peace agreement signed in Washington between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization and also that signed between Israel and Jordan. These agreements constitute in many respects important milestones in the recognition of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, and they offer hope for a lasting and comprehensive peace in that region. By the same token, the Government of Guinea encourages the two Korean States to continue their effort for the independent and peaceful reunification of their common homeland. I have every hope that the negotiations between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States will lead the two parties to continue the dialog to bring about a peaceful solution to the nuclear problem on the Korean peninsula and to improve relations between the two countries. The tragic events that have shaken the political life of Haiti for three years now have captured the attention of the international community. My Government hopes that the efforts of the international community will make it possible to put an end to that crisis and to alleviate the suffering of the people of Haiti through the restoration of democracy. The remarkable progress made through the bilateral and multilateral negotiations in the field of disarmament and arms control clearly underscores the determination of Member States to shield our planet from the specter of destruction. However, many perils still hamper our efforts to bring about collective security, which would encompass the related problems of development, environment and human rights. In certain sensitive regions, the trade in conventional weapons and their frequent use in conflicts, along with the trade in nuclear materials and the desire of some countries to possess nuclear weapons, add to our Organization's responsibilities and call for stringent verification measures. Objectives in this field should include a nuclear test ban and the promotion of the establishment of denuclearized or nuclear-free zones in all parts of the world. In this brief overview of some of the major issues in the world, I wish to stress the importance of peacekeeping operations. I consider it useful to rethink the problems of such operations, whose motives and procedures for implementation seem very often to involve double standards. We believe that in order to give them the desired legitimacy and effectiveness these operations should be the subject of coordination and dialog in which all United Nations Member States take part, for collective security is the business of all nations of the world, be they large or small. Africa's keen interest in the quest for ways and means to guarantee peace, security and stability on our continent is reflected in the mechanism for the prevention, settlement and management of conflicts established by the Organization of African Unity. This instrument is already functioning; it deals with all forms of crisis that might jeopardize African peoples' efforts at economic, social and cultural development. A peace fund has been set up to give financial support to the actions undertaken by this mechanism. While appreciating the efforts of the United Nations in the economic and social fields, we note with regret the absence of any significant results in the implementation of the measures adopted. Today we are concerned to see that inequalities in international trade are worsening and that debt-servicing, which is a burden on the meager resources obtained from structural adjustment, require bold action. Furthermore, the debt burden neutralizes the mobilization of funding for commodity exports, which are constantly depreciating because of inequitable terms of trade. In my delegation's view, there can be no development if there is not an increase in income from commodities, whose prices, unfortunately, are not controlled by the developing countries. The quest for prosperity could be a danger, since it engenders a strong migratory flow from the South to the North. Despite the socio-economic changes carried out in our States to stimulate private initiative and cooperative movements and to improve living conditions, the African continent is still experiencing an unprecedented economic crisis. To this precarious picture we must add the resurgence of social problems, such as juvenile delinquency, illicit trade in drugs and narcotics, unemployment, the AIDS pandemic and the deleterious effects of persistent drought and other natural disasters. In this context, we support the recommendations and decisions of the international Conference held in Tokyo on African development. Furthermore, my delegation urges the international community to increase official development assistance and requests the United Nations to give greater support to the laudable efforts of the African countries in their economic-recovery policies, in keeping with Article 55 of the Charter. The concept of development cannot be limited to the economic dimension alone. It must necessarily take into account social and cultural dimensions. As long as some are afraid of the progress of others, the myth of Sisyphus will prevail and part of our globe will be for ever harnessed to the yoke. Only dialog, tolerance and the elimination of poverty throughout the world will guarantee lasting peace and strengthen the unity and stability of nations. In this regard we should stress the relevance of the Secretary-General's Agenda for Development. Highlighting the many aspects of development and its connection with peace, the environment, international security and human rights, it is a reference document in our quest for solutions to the many economic difficulties facing the developing countries. It has thus enriched our discussion on sustainable development. The protection of basic human rights, the satisfaction of mankind's needs, and social justice are central to my country's concerns. My delegation welcomed the holding in Cairo of the International Conference on Population and Development, and we hope that the work of the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing in 1995, and that of the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen, will give in- depth consideration to other complex aspects of this important subject. In my country, the Republic of Guinea, we have undertaken an ambitious program of political, economic, cultural and social restructuring. The process of establishing democratic and liberal institutions will be totally completed during the last quarter of this year with the holding of legislative elections. In order to pay the price of political and socio-economic liberalization, we need, in addition to substantial financial assistance, considerable support and understanding from the entire international community. Member States are preparing to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. This important event will offer an opportunity for us all to recall the very special circumstances that gave birth to our Organization and to pay a well-deserved tribute to the work of the founding fathers. My country is making great efforts to prepare for this great event, and to this end a national organizational committee has been established. The serious international problems to which I have just referred are a measure of the gravity of the challenges facing mankind, as well as the responsibilities of the United Nations. Our Organization has gained undeniable prestige, because of its increased burdens in managing world affairs. Nevertheless, in order to become more effective, it needs to be restructured and revitalized. This applies to the Security Council and the other main bodies. Reforms must be based on the principle of equality of Member States, and must reflect a balance in the decision-making process between the various bodies of the system. That is what is needed for the United Nations to succeed in its mission of maintaining international peace and security and promoting a balanced world economy. The embryonic new international order, freed of all uncertainty and threats of instability, will emerge from such a development.  Like those who have preceded us in addressing the Assembly, we wish first of all to offer you, Mr. President, our warmest congratulations on your election to preside at this session, which attests to the trust and esteem your eminent qualities and competence inspire in the international community. Your election also constitutes a solemn tribute to your fraternal, friendly country, Côte d’Ivoire, for its important role in the concert of nations and its firm determination to contribute to the steady strengthening of cooperation. We wish to assure you that the Rwandese delegation will spare no effort to make its modest contribution to the success of your task. We also wish to avail ourselves of this opportunity to pay a heartfelt tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana, for his competence, wisdom and diligence in guiding the work of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. In addition, we would like to thank the Secretary- General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts to strengthen the role of the United Nations as an instrument for the promotion of peace and solidarity among peoples. Finally, we warmly welcome the Republic of South Africa as a new Member of the vast family of the United Nations. That country has honoured democratic ideals by abolishing the odious system of apartheid. To be sure, the arrival of a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa by means of free and democratic elections deserves to be hailed from the rostrum of this Assembly. This forum of nations gives us a timely opportunity to expound on the problem of Rwanda, which has been in the news day in and day out. One cannot talk about the Rwanda problem without mentioning the role the United Nations has played and continues to play in the history of our country. The history of our links is well known. It will be recalled that just after the beginning of this century Rwanda was placed under the mandate system and, later, under the trusteeship system, which then led to its independence. This history, as has been witnessed by the international community, is riddled with unfortunate events, the most recent of which is the genocide Rwanda has just experienced. This genocide, which rivals the Nazi holocaust of the 1940s, is somewhat paradoxical because since the end of the Second World War the international community has tried to build a civilization on the foundations of respect for the fundamental rights of human beings. While the international community was pooling its efforts to put an end to racism and racial discrimination, particularly apartheid in South Africa - whose participation in the forty-ninth session is a felicitous turn of events - at the same time an ideology akin to apartheid was evolving in our country. That ideology, which was publicly professed by the public authorities - more 3 precisely, by the National Revolutionary Movement for Development (MRND) and the Coalition for the Defence of the Republic (CDR) parties of the late President Habyarimana - cleared the way for genocide. Plans for extermination were being openly prepared for a long time, with no trepidation whatsoever, since the power structure had long before institutionalized the violation of fundamental human rights. This is why armed opposition, in the form of the Rwandese Patriotic Front (RPF), confronted the regime beginning in 1990. Some opposition parties also emerged in 1991, thanks to the pressure exerted by the RPF. Under the aegis of the Organization of African Unity, the countries of the subregion initiated a peace process, which the United Nations, together with a number of Western countries, later joined. We take this opportunity to thank all for their tireless efforts to ensure that the Arusha negotiations would succeed. For more than a year the Rwandese negotiated the Arusha Peace Agreement, the principal conclusions of which addressed the establishment of a State of law in Rwanda, respect for human rights, power-sharing, the establishment without discrimination of a national army, the construction of a society based on respect for democratic principles and on national reconciliation, and the return of refugees banished from their country for more than 35 years. The international community witnessed the intransigence of the MRND-CDR regime, which, describing the Agreement as a mere scrap of paper, hatched a plan for extermination, now recognized by the whole world as genocide. The international cameras trained on this barbaric crime revealed moments of rare cruelty. The militia, trained by the MRND and the CDR and supported by the presidential guard and by other sectors of the army, slit the throats of women, elderly people, men and children. The Rwandese countryside was strewn with corpses. Our rivers swept thousands of dead bodies downstream. Churches and schools became veritable slaughterhouses, and even now they smell of human flesh, the flesh of thousands of innocent people who had hoped to find refuge there. Piled into common graves, the victims of April’s madness number thousands upon thousands. The killing in our country was intended to disintegrate the Rwandese people, and it succeeded. Now we must make a fresh start in rebuilding the Rwandese nation. We must ensure that the various sectors of the population can coexist. We must give them a common hope and a common destiny, which, after all that has happened, has become a difficult yet indispensable task. We have already requested the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to help our Government in the effort to teach the Rwandese new values based on respect for fundamental human rights. There would have been no genocide if the MRND- CDR system had abided by the spirit of Arusha. But they could not embrace the spirit of Arusha because those Rwandese Nazis were proponents of the final solution: extermination. They flouted morality, common sense, the values everyone in this Assembly believes in and, above all, the prescriptions of Arusha. Yet some who are insensitive to our suffering have asked that those Nazi parties still be allowed to hold power. Never in history has such a scandalous privilege been sought for the organized perpetrators of similar cases of genocide. Such requests make light of our dignity as human beings. We cannot agree to these requests, which fly in the face of the spirit and the letter of the principles underlying this institution - that is, fundamental human rights. By discouraging impulses towards revenge and in anticipation of justice that will be clear to everyone and that is supported by the international community, our Government has been able to contain a situation marked - understandably after such tragedy - by tensions and rancour. Contrary to disparaging allegations that are completely unfounded, our Government is not showing weakness; it is not just sitting on its hands whenever there is an infraction of the law. Our Government continues to cooperate closely with the United Nations Force, and to facilitate its work. With scanty means, our Government has undertaken to rebuild a country that has been socially splintered and morally and physically ravaged. The humanitarian task of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR) continues to be an indispensable asset in our efforts at rehabilitation. This unspeakable barbarism, this genocide was carried out before the very eyes of the international community. We are grateful to those countries that generously put their troops at the disposal of UNAMIR, as well as to the African contingents of the Group of neutral military observers. We would express our sincere thanks to them for the spirit in which they made their 4 contribution. Rather than presiding over peace and harmony among the Rwandese, the troops, misled by the authors of the apocalypse - the Rwandese authorities at the time - were, alas, forced to serve as witnesses to the carnage. We regret that their mandate prevented them from acting effectively at the moment of the tragedy. Based on this experience, we encourage the United Nations to furnish the international tribunal to be created in Rwanda with the means to function as it should, in order to spare us further disappointments and tragedies. In accordance with Rwanda’s request, and following Mr. Degnisegui’s report, as well as that of the Commission of Experts established by Security Council resolution 935 (1994), of 1 July 1994, it is absolutely urgent that this international tribunal be established. It will enable us to prosecute in a completely open setting those responsible for the genocide. Since most of the criminals have found refuge in various corners of the world, what we seek is a tool of justice that knows no borders. Moreover, the very nature of the events - considered to be crimes against humanity - warrants the international community’s joining forces to prevent their reoccurrence. That is why we continue to urge the adoption of a Security Council resolution that would facilitate the arrest and trial of those responsible for the genocide who are now in refugee camps outside our borders. We would remind the Assembly that most of these camps are primarily military camps where troops and militia, still in possession of heavy and light weapons, hold hundreds of thousands of persons hostage. This resolution should be based on Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter and should include a request to, an authorization for, States Members of the United Nations to detain individuals on their territory who are suspected, on solid grounds, of having participated in acts of genocide, and authorization for them to do so. The construction of a new society based on social justice and respect for fundamental human rights will be possible only if those responsible for the Rwandese tragedy are prosecuted. It is now six months since the first crimes were committed, and action must be initiated. The delay in starting trials causes understandable frustration on the part of victims who are already losing hope that there can be a just society and who tend to view the relative impunity of the criminals as indicating approval of their crimes. Another thorny problem which faces our country and upon which we would like to shed some light is that of refugees. The Rwandese refugees can be classified into two categories: the former refugees to whom the dictatorial power had refused to grant the right to return to their homeland, and the more recent ones who fled Rwanda following the events to which I have already referred. It is our Government’s policy to encourage all refugees, without distinction, to return to their country. In this respect, we are addressing countless appeals to our citizens outside our borders to rejoin us and help us build a new Rwanda. Thousands of them have already returned to their homeland, but many others remain abroad. We are also calling upon the soldiers to come back and, if they still desire to do so - to continue their careers in the Rwandese army. For Rwanda is their country; it belongs equally, and unquestionably, to all of its daughters and all its sons, with its limitations and its history, including this most recent tragedy which we must all bear. Our Government has made the choice to act with transparency. The unrestricted deployment of UNAMIR as well as other human rights observers should reassure the world, and especially the refugees, of our Government’s determination to respect the state of law. We urge the United Nations to contribute to eliminating all the obstacles to the return of refugees, and especially to stop the violence in the camps against, in particular, those who wish to return home, and to break the stranglehold exercised by the former army’s militia and other perpetrators of genocide on the rest of the people. This is why we beseech the international community to assist us in surmounting all the challenges entailed by the return of the refugees. Concrete steps have been taken, but much remains to be done if the world is to be completely rid of these weapons which in the past caused serious tensions in various parts of the world that degenerated into armed conflicts. Even though the relaxation of East-West tensions has contributed greatly to the resolution of certain conflicts, particularly in Indo-China, Latin America and the Middle East, elsewhere - in the former Yugoslavia and some African countries - the fires regrettably continue to burn. Rwanda fully supports the international community’s efforts to ensure compliance with commitments related to the peaceful settlement of disputes and the non- proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of 5 mass destruction. Our country is a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and we reiterate our full dedication to the international community’s goals with regard to disarmament and arms control. The attainment of these goals - eliminating the risk of war, limiting destruction in case of war, stopping war at an early stage, strengthening international security in order to ensure economic prosperity, channelling the funds freed as a result of disarmament towards the developing countries - will allow all nations to thrive. Although genuine progress has been made in the area of disarmament, the new world order remains compromised by the constantly growing gap between the poorer and richer countries. In the light of the two United Nations publications on the world economic and social situation for the years 1993 and 1994, current economic trends in the world point to gloomy forecasts in the short and medium term, particularly for many third-world countries. The Rwandese delegation hopes that this forty-ninth session will reaffirm the importance and the still current validity of the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and of Development of the Developing Countries. We solemnly invite the forty-ninth session of the United Nations General Assembly to address the fundamental right to development, as stated in the Vienna Declaration and adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights, as well as the link between peace and development. Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and development are interdependent and mutually reinforcing. Rwanda and Africa as a whole look to the promise of the establishment of the United Nations agenda for development and of the speedy implementation of the amendments proposed to the plan of action - amendments which will undoubtedly enable us to restore the economies of our countries. It is imperative for the United Nations - whose main objective remains the promotion of peace, security and development - to devote itself to activities in keeping with the attainment of peace, security and development. In the fifty years since the signing of the San Francisco Charter, the world has undergone many changes. New Powers have arisen, the geopolitical map has shifted, Africa and other third-world countries have emancipated themselves, the cold war has ended - hence we must reassess our Organization to ensure that it can meet the new challenges. It is in this context that Rwanda is concerned with the demands of the new world geopolitical situation, as well as with the new role assigned to the United Nations to contribute to the advent of the new world order. In this connection, particular attention must be paid to the current restructuring of the United Nations system, particularly of the Security Council. With regard to this very important organ of the United Nations system, the Rwandese delegation considers that membership, both permanent and non- permanent, should be expanded, with scrupulous attention to equitable geographic representation and bearing in mind the desire to maintain efficiency. Similarly, the current restructuring of the United Nations system should allow small States to enjoy greater security and to be able to occupy a seat on the Security Council without difficulty. One hopes that the new configuration of the Security Council will reflect the principle of equality among all Member States, and that this reform will respect the rules of democracy and transparency. (spoke in English) May I conclude by stating before the community of nations that members represent that the task we have set ourselves is enormous, but the will and determination of the Rwandese people to build a new society is unflinching. To all those Rwandese who became victims of the machine of genocide and recent massacres, we share your deep wounds and reiterate our determination to bring the culprits to justice. To those Rwandese who were blindly manipulated to join the bankrupt politics of division and suppression, we call upon you to come back to your senses and join us in building a new society based on tolerance and reconciliation. To the international community, I pledge our resolve to ensure that never again shall Rwanda be a terrain on which is sown politics of denial of basic human rights to any of its citizens. Its role in helping us to pick up the pieces of the completely shattered fabric of our society 6 need not be emphasized. We share this moral duty, it being understood that the major part of the burden by far rests on the Rwandese people themselves. It is a great honour for me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the distinguished and very important post of President of the General Assembly. I am confident that your knowledge, experience and consummate personal skills, which you have demonstrated both as Permanent Representative to the United Nations and as President of the Security Council, will allow the successful resolution of the complex problems the international community is now facing on the eve of the celebration of the United Nations half century. I would like also to express my appreciation to the President of the previous session of the General Assembly, Ambassador Insanally, whose wise guidance resulted in the adoption of an entire set of constructive decisions to the benefit of all Member States of the United Nations. The year that has elapsed since the previous session of the General Assembly has witnessed important international developments, in many of which the United Nations was both a catalyst and a participant. They included the historic turn towards peace in the Middle East and the elimination of the apartheid system in South Africa. Positive developments are expected in Ulster and in other hot spots of the planet. The completion of the withdrawal of Russian troops from Germany and the Baltic States has at last marked the end of the European history of the Second World War. In this context, the leaders of the Russian Federation should be given their due for displaying political courage and foresight. 17 Radical changes have also taken place in the political, social and economic life of Ukraine, which recently celebrated the third anniversary of its independence. The Ukrainian people, of their own free will, in a truly democratic way, elected Leonid Kuchma as the new President, and has elected the Parliament of the country. New leaders have come to executive power. Naturally, all of these developments are generating broad interest in, and closer attention to, Ukraine. In this connection, different - sometimes arbitrary - predictions have been made concerning the direction of our domestic and foreign policies, and even regarding their possible reorientation. Many radical and even diametrically opposed views have been heard - for example, whether the political pendulum in Ukraine will swing to the East or West, or whether Ukraine will remain an independent State and preserve its political sovereignty. In taking the opportunity to speak from this rostrum, I should like to clarify these important issues. First, the State policy of Ukraine will be consistently based on the authority established by the Ukrainian people when it confirmed, almost unanimously, its choice of independent development during the national referendum held in December 1991. This reality is decisive, and rumours that Ukraine will eventually lose its sovereignty are absolutely unfounded. We shall continue to follow the path of building an independent State, and a return to the situation which prevailed in the former Soviet Union is impossible. Secondly, what also seems to be an oversimplification is the question of where Ukraine will be, whether in the East or the West, of where it will go. I think it is precisely here in this Hall, which brings together representatives of all continents and regions of the world, that the artificial division into East, West, North and South is especially strongly felt. Today the world is becoming more integrated, and political indicators of geographical affiliation of countries are gradually disappearing. Ukraine, like any other State, cannot simply 'go' East or West. It is there, where it has been for ages, and where it will stay for ever. Its main task as a historically ancient but politically young State consists in gradual integration into the European and world political, economic, humanitarian and other processes as a reliable link in a new global system of international relations. Of course, there will be corrections to our policy. The world has changed considerably, even in comparison with that period of time when Ukraine emerged on the political map as an independent State. All of us, including Ukraine, have to take into account new realities and respond to them appropriately. This is particularly so when we deal with the question of the intensification of mutually beneficial and equitable cooperation with the Russian Federation and with the other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). But these relations will by no means be developed at the expense of our contact with our other partners. Ukraine is equally concerned with strengthening relations with the United States; Germany; Canada; the countries of Central and Eastern Europe; the States of Asia - above all, China and Japan; as well as other countries of the Asian-Pacific region, Africa and Latin America. In other words, the range of our foreign policy interests is very broad. I would like to emphasize that at the international level Ukraine will protect its national interests, including its economic interests, with increasing dynamism and pragmatism. These are the corrections that will be made to Ukraine’s foreign policy, which, despite domestic political changes, remains, as President Leonid Kuchma has stated, predictable, consistent and weighted. There can be no doubt whatsoever in this respect: Ukraine has been committed, and will continue to be committed, to fulfilling its international obligations, consistently and in good faith. This is a solid foundation of our foreign policy. The wave of political romanticism yielded to a time of severe trials in the political, social and economic lives of the newly independent States that emerged from the former Soviet Union. Linking the titles of two well- known novels, the overall tenor of the mood of society in the post-communist world might be described as 'great expectations gone with the wind'. To speak frankly, those feelings were not spared Ukraine, which immediately declared its readiness to cooperate honestly and openly with all interested partners. However, our State, after having made persistent efforts, has felt that only recently has the world community come to understand its position. At the same time, the reality of the current situation of Ukraine is that we are still the subject of pressure and suspicion from outside and that we continue at times to encounter open reluctance to understand the essence of the problems we are facing. This greatly aggravates the present and still difficult economic situation in the country and hinders the process of market reforms. 18 Today, Ukraine is facing the difficult tasks of overcoming an economic crisis, of normalizing its social and economic situation and of creating favourable domestic and international conditions for gradually raising the living standard of its population. The President and the new Government are focusing their efforts on those tasks, but I must note that Ukraine’s problem in surmounting its economic crisis has an international dimension as well since, because of its geopolitical situation, the establishment of Ukraine as a sovereign and economically developed State is an important factor for peace and stability on the continent of Europe. There is therefore every reason to assert that support for Ukraine - both political and, especially, economic - is a reliable investment in the strengthening of international security. These facts are gradually being accepted, and the discussion of the Ukrainian question at the Naples Summit Meeting of the Group of 7 was evidence of this trend. The existence of a group of countries undergoing transition to a market economy has become a real factor in current international relations. Ukraine is a part of that group. Our experience is showing that the transition period will not be smooth, that it will be fairly lengthy and that it will necessitate considerable effort, including international effort. There is, however, no alternative. Those very aspects of statecraft will be the focus of President Kuchma’s attention in the policy statement he will soon deliver to the Parliament. I should also like to note that the difficult economic situation in our country can to a considerable extent be explained by the vast financial burden of nuclear disarmament and the eradication of the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster. Those problems are not solely Ukrainian; they have a global dimension as well. In this connection, one positive development is the fact that the problems of countries undergoing the transition to a market economy are gradually coming to occupy a rightful place in the varied activities of the United Nations and its specialized agencies. However, it seems that donor States, while declaring their support for the implementation of reforms in countries undergoing transition, are still being excessively cautious in providing adequate support to specific projects in Eastern Europe and in the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). Today, that attitude is beginning to pose a serious problem. We are also looking forward to target-oriented activities by the international community designed to create favourable conditions for free access to the world market for exports from countries in this region, particularly Ukraine. In this connection, Ukraine welcomes the establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and firmly intends to accede to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)/WTO system. We hope that that system will promote trade liberalization and facilitate the creation of an open and transparent system of trade. After all, the intensification of international trade is an integral part of economic development. As a European country, we are primarily concerned with the problem of security in Europe in the broadest sense of that term. I should like to express some views concerning Ukraine’s vision of ways to safeguard peace and stability on that continent. The difficulties of making forecasts in the field of international relations can be explained by the number of new risks and challenges to security that have been created by political, economic, inter-ethnic and other contradictions. These have already generated a wave of conflicts to which Europe was not prepared to make an adequate response. The anxiety on the continent of Europe is clearly demonstrated by the ongoing search for new machinery to ensure State security in Eastern and Central Europe, of which Ukraine is also a part. The point is not that appropriate structures to strengthen security in Europe do not exist. There are the activities of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Western European Union (WEU) and the North Atlantic Cooperation Council (NACC), and the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States are also seeking ways to achieve collective security. However, for various reasons none of those structures is able adequately to fill the military and political vacuum created in the region following the disintegration of the USSR and the Warsaw Treaty. That is why Ukraine strongly supports initiatives aimed at all-European cooperation in various fields, including the field of security. I should like to recall that Ukraine was the first of the CIS countries to become a signatory of the NATO Partnership for Peace programme and the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation with the European Community. The Ukraine became a party to the Conference on the Pact on Stability in Europe and has put forward initiatives for the strengthening of security and 19 cooperation in Central and Eastern Europe and in the Black Sea region. However, it should be acknowledged that, notwithstanding all their positive features, neither the Partnership for Peace programme nor any other measures undertaken can yet ensure reliable security safeguards for the States concerned. In the existing situation it seems reasonable to focus attention on a detailed examination of the question of creating an all-European security structure that would involve all the existing structures in this field - the CSCE, the NACC, NATO, the WEU - and, of course, the States of the former USSR should have an appropriate place in that structure. Ukraine advocates just such an approach, namely, the strengthening of partnership and cooperation in an all-European dimension rather than a search for new geometrical schemas which would, in fact, solidify the division of the European continent, small as it is on the global scale. We feel that the strengthening of stability and security in the all-European sphere can and must be supplemented by regional actions that could be organically integrated into the overall process of confidence-building and constructive cooperation. In the search for such steps, Ukraine put forward the initiative on confidence-building measures in the region of the Black Sea. This region is extremely important to us as a crossroads between Europe and Asia and between North and South. The elaboration and implementation of specific confidence-building measures in the military and political fields in the Black Sea region would promote good- neighbourly relations and political and economic cooperation between the Black Sea countries. Multilateral consultations on these issues have already begun. Ukraine proceeds on the basis that all Black Sea countries may participate in confidence-building measures. We believe that the measures themselves should be identified in a politically binding document, which would regulate naval activities on the Black Sea, establish a procedure for the exchange of appropriate information and promote the development of contacts between the naval forces of States parties. The principle of collective action aimed at the maintenance of peace under appropriate international control must be one of the important conditions for the operation of an all-Europe security system. At the present stage, national and international security is threatened not so much by the possibility of military aggression from outside as by local and regional conflicts provoked by domestic circumstances - economic, ethnic, religious and others - and especially by the possibility of their spilling over and involving neighbouring countries. This requires timely preventive action. Assessing recent developments in the world, we have to recognize that, on the whole, preventive diplomacy is coming to the foreground of United Nations activities aimed at securing, restoring and strengthening peace and of activities of the CSCE. In this context, I should like to express gratitude to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the United Nations Secretary-General, for his significant personal contribution to the development of the foundations in this extremely important field of international activity. We greatly appreciate United Nations peace-keeping efforts aimed at settling regional conflicts. We realize that such activities require intensive political, physical and financial support from Member States. Unfortunately, the difficult economic situation of our State - not to mention the unjustified excessively high contribution to the regular budget - prevents Ukraine from meeting in full its financial obligation to the United Nations. However, we are trying to compensate, at least partially, through our contribution to the peace-keeping forces. Ukraine has already become one of the major contributors to United Nations forces, and it remains ready to cooperate in this field. We believe that appropriate protection and security for the peace-keeping personnel are essential conditions for such cooperation. Let us consider the sad statistics. In the course of all United Nations operations more than 1,000 peace-keepers have been killed. In the territory of the former Yugoslavia nine Ukrainian servicemen gave their lives, and more than 30 persons were wounded. The problem of security for United Nations personnel becomes more acute every year. When sending its troops to Yugoslavia, Ukraine took the initiative of developing an international convention on the protection of United Nations peace- keepers and of submitting a draft of the document. We now await with hope the completion, during the current session, of work on this question. Developments in the former Yugoslavia and in Somalia compel us to think about the problems of the 20 effectiveness of United Nations peace-keeping operations. The fact that the United Nations, even using the potential of such a powerful organization as NATO, failed to extinguish the flames of bloody conflict in these countries obviously calls for a more thorough examination and a closer definition of principles of United Nations peace- keeping operations. First and foremost, there are such questions as a precise mandate, a link with the negotiating process, the neutrality of the United Nations contingent, the reasons for coercive action and the concept of multinational forces. Today, with the transition to a multipolar world, it has become evident that no country, however great its potential for military power, can any longer pretend to be an effective guarantor of peace by relying exclusively on its own strength. This would be incompatible with the rules and principles of behaviour that are recognized throughout the world. Unfortunately, the United Nations proved not to be completely ready to assume this important role. Operations have become increasingly expensive and unwieldy. During the last four years alone United Nations expenditure for these purposes has increased from $350 million to $2.8 billion, thus aggravating the chronic financial problems. In the opinion of the world community, peace-keeping operations have lost their element of the extraordinary and have become routine, and not always successful, emergency actions. But the main reason for the crisis in United Nations peace-keeping efforts has proved to be changes in the conditions and circumstances of conflicts. Classic peace-keeping operations started after the end of the 'hot' phase. That is why they were, in fact, quite effective means of conflict prevention. Now, in many cases, the United Nations intervenes when hostilities are at their height. This changes the principles of the use of peace-keeping forces. It is not always the case that the 'blue helmets' are regarded by all the conflicting parties as welcome guests. That is why the United Nations forces’ mandate is considerably wider than used to be the case. In some cases they have been given the right to use all available weapons - and not only in self-defence. The parties to conflicts are often unable to provide adequate conditions for United Nations forces to accomplish their peace-making mission. A distinctive attribute of current conflicts is the phenomenon of field commanders. These people obey no one and, thus, compromise United Nations decisions or agreements reached within the framework of efforts aimed at achieving an armistice. It is high time to renew the principles and mechanisms of peace-keeping operations on the basis of the United Nations Charter. We feel that it is necessary to accelerate the creation of United Nations rapid- deployment forces, which would recruit volunteers and would be extraterritorial in character. Ukraine has already declared its readiness to take part in this process. An extremely important issue is the enhancement of the role of international law within the system of international relations and the creation of a climate between States that would completely exclude diktat, interference in internal affairs, the proclamation of so-called zones of special interests, and so on. The United Nations is also making a valuable contribution to strengthening the international rule of law. In this context, Ukraine advocates further enhancement of the rules and principles of international law - first and foremost, such basic principles as respect for the sovereignty of States; territorial integrity and the inviolability of borders; and the protection of individual human rights, including the rights of national minorities. Our State is committed to cooperating with other countries in this field. Ukraine is also ready to make its contribution to the solution of other urgent problems. It is necessary that we should examine thoroughly and comprehensively the question of the implementation of economic sanctions against those who threaten peace and security. Previous United Nations experience in this field provides grounds for justified criticism of the effectiveness of such sanctions. It is time to give serious thought to the creation of machinery for the implementation of Article 50 of the United Nations Charter. This would protect the economic interests of third countries, which are suffering colossal losses as a result of the strict implementation of sanctions. Ukraine has already lost more than $4 billion as a result of the implementation of sanctions against Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, the international structures did not extend appropriate assistance to enable our State to overcome the economic difficulties caused by the embargo. Obviously, collective action aimed at implementing coercive measures cannot be taken on such an unfair basis, as this increases the danger of a loss of confidence in the device of sanctions. Generally, the necessity of substantively reforming the United Nations, with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of the Organization while reducing at the 21 same time the expenditures for its functioning, is a very serious problem. I am confident that this problem has ceased to be merely an administrative and budgetary one and is moving to the foreground as one of the major political problems. Many countries, including Ukraine, are currently encountering great difficulties in convincing their citizens that it is necessary to make excessively large contributions to the budget of international organizations. There are still many outstanding problems in the field of arms control and disarmament, which traditionally occupy an important place in the foreign policy of Ukraine. We support efforts aimed at putting into force the chemical weapons Convention. We are taking an active part in the elaboration of effective mechanisms of international control regarding the implementation of the inhumane weapons Convention, the Convention on the prohibition of biological weapons, the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, and other international instruments to which Ukraine is a party. We attach great importance to the preparation of the comprehensive test-ban treaty, which is now under way within the framework of the Conference on Disarmament. These activities prove that Ukraine is pursuing a consistent policy in the field of the prohibition of weapons of mass destruction, and they demonstrate its openness and readiness to cooperate, its commitment to respect the obligations assumed. Ukraine stands for the equality of all States parties to international treaties and supports the universality and non-discriminatory nature of these treaties. It is precisely from such a position that Ukraine approaches nuclear disarmament, which, at the present stage, is its most complicated problem. It should be emphasized that Ukraine is the first State in the world that has voluntarily and unilaterally assumed the obligation of eliminating nuclear weapons located in its territory - the third nuclear potential in the world - and that intends to achieve the status of a non-nuclear Power. The decision on non-nuclear status was approved by the Parliament of Ukraine for the benefit both of the highest interests of our State and of mankind as a whole. This decision was based on the profound belief of our people in the morality of the non-nuclear option and was not the result of any external pressure. At the same time, Ukraine, as a State that of its own free will is giving up nuclear weapons - this most effective means of deterrence - obviously has the right to obtain reliable security guarantees from other nuclear States and adequate economic and technical assistance from the international community for the elimination of these weapons. Unfortunately, our partners did not immediately comprehend these just demands, and we lost a lot of time. The Ukraine Parliament’s conditions for revoking its reservations at the time of the ratification of the START Treaty and the Lisbon Protocol, and for proceeding with the practical withdrawal of nuclear warheads from Ukraine with the view to their further elimination, were created only after the Trilateral Statement by the Presidents of Ukraine, the United States and the Russian Federation was signed and the relevant implementation agreements were concluded. Very soon the Parliament of Ukraine intends to consider the accession of our State to the non- proliferation Treaty. Today, the settlement of this issue depends mainly on the finalization of an acceptable text of the document concerning the provision of guarantees for Ukraine’s national security by the nuclear States. Ukraine stands for corresponding guarantees to be multilateral and to be addressed directly to Ukraine as that State which for the first time in history, on its own, is getting rid of nuclear weapons; these guarantees should provide a mechanism of consultations, which could become involved should the security of Ukraine be threatened. In this process, we attach great importance to the role of the United Nations as the most authoritative international organization. In conclusion, I would like to express optimism concerning the future development of the United Nations and international co-operation. Current international life is highly complicated and contradictory: there are alarming moments and there are frustrations, but there are also truly historical shifts which have led to the end of the cold war and to the transition to constructive co-operation. It is highly symbolic that this is happening on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization, which emerged from the ruins of the Second World War. On behalf of Ukraine, which suffered very heavy losses in that war, I would like to support the proposal to proclaim 1995 the universal year of commemoration of the victims of this, the bloodiest of wars. Present-day realities are laying a sound foundation for global cooperation, stability and peace. Let us therefore make every effort not to lose this historic opportunity. I wish to congratulate the President on his appointment to this highly responsible and important post. My delegation will work constructively with him during the course of this, the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Since the end of the Second World War, the fiftieth anniversary of which we shall be celebrating next year, the world has been engaged in peace-building. It has been a long road, and it has not been without its dramatic moments. Over the past half century the world has come to the brink of nuclear war many times. Now, with the end of the cold war, with the dissolution of the bipolar world, a new challenge has arisen in the shape of a series of wars and conflicts based on ethnic and religious intolerance that have exploded in many different areas of the world. In his report 'An Agenda for Peace' the Secretary General spoke of the concentration of efforts towards preventive diplomacy, of steps for increasing international confidence-building and achieving early recognition of conflict situations. Such measures have taken on special importance in our countries with the fall of totalitarianism, because we have inherited many long- standing issues of conflict that had previously been hidden and suppressed by a regime of terror in the conditions of that time. The United Nations, in our view, could play a leadership role in the study of typical conflict situations. It could systematize the approaches, principles and paths for the resolution of traditional issues of dispute such as border issues, the sharing or allocation of water and other natural resources, the self-determination of nations and territorial integrity, and the protection of minorities on the basis of ethnic, religious, linguistic and other differences. This would allow the United Nations to establish a legal basis for decisions that would help decrease the potential for new conflicts and aid in the resolution of existing problems. Only by following the highest authority of law, and only on the basis of international law, can we weave a solid fabric of peace throughout the planet, in all of its smallest corners, no matter how remote or provincial. Violence and intolerance among people have led to unending war and bloodshed in the former Yugoslavia. The tragedy of Bosnia poses a challenge to all humankind. Fifty years ago the nations of this world, having united, put an end to nazism and genocide. Why then are we now moving so slowly in the face of the violence that is obviously based on ethnic and religious discrimination and that is reverberating throughout the planet? We stand for a political settlement of conflicts. We call for both sides to put an end to the bloody slaughter. In our view, the recommendations of the Contact Group provide a way out of this crisis and hope that peace can be restored in the heart of Europe. We greatly value the efforts of the Secretary- General, his Mission and the Observer Group of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) to resolve issues peacefully in Tajikistan. We welcome the recently signed cease-fire in Tehran, in accordance with which hostilities have temporarily ceased and political prisoners and prisoners of war are being released. We have great hope for the gradual end of this crisis and for the unification of the Tajik peoples, who have experienced more than enough sorrow and suffering, for the return of all refugees to their homes and for the restoration of peace with our neighbours. We express this hope now, before the coming winter, and call upon all 31 countries to render vitally important humanitarian aid to Tajikistan. We are following with great concern and alarm the situation in Afghanistan and welcome the efforts towards settlement. The restoration of peace in that country and the achievement of national reconciliation would bring long- awaited peace to the Afghan people, who have suffered so much, and drastically improve the situation in our region of the world. That region is exhausted from gunfire and war. It is yearning for trade and a return to tilling the soil. Notwithstanding the tremendous difficulties inherent in our search for peace and accord in that country, we urge the world not to give in either to moral or to donor fatigue. It is not possible to dodge responsibilities during this trying period because the deadly conflict in this country has been brought about by participation on many different sides. Afghanistan has a plethora of weapons. The country is prey to a non-stop and intensive arms race. Hope for peace can be guaranteed only if the international community devotes its unwavering attention and political will to unravelling the knot of the Afghan conflict. That is why my country has consistently called for completion and effective implementation of the Register of Conventional Weapons. We support the initiative of the United States announced by President Clinton on the ratification of and support for General Assembly resolution 48/75 K of 16 December 1993 on a moratorium on the export of land-mines. The Kyrgyz Republic has consistently stood for a comprehensive, effective reduction in conventional arms. We are actively and diligently working on the conversion of our defence industry to civilian production. Kyrgyzstan, as a non-nuclear State, signed the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and advocates transforming it into an agreement of unlimited duration. We welcome the efforts of all countries - and first and foremost the United States of America and France - to reach a consensus on the issue of a comprehensive nuclear- test ban. We support the initiatives put forward by President Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan on confidence-building measures in Asia, and we envisage our region of Central Asia, located as it is between two nuclear Powers, as an area free of nuclear weapons. That would be our Central Asian treaty. Our world, so full of anxiety and so weary, believes that hope for peace is not an illusion. I recall with great excitement the unseasonably warm day of 13 September 1993 at the White House in Washington when, after many years of conflict, a declaration of principles on Palestinian self-rule in Gaza and Jericho was signed by the Israeli Government and the Palestine Liberation Organization. It is with great satisfaction and happiness that we see together with us in this Hall representatives of the Government of South Africa that was elected on a democratic basis. Let us stock up on patience. We can achieve breakthroughs and visible results on the difficult path to peace and concord only if we do not give in to fatalism. United Nations peace-keeping efforts are achieving significant success in settling many of the conflicts of our time. We know that 75 countries are participating in 17 United Nations Missions overseeing the holding and monitoring of elections, rendering humanitarian assistance during disasters and restoring what has been destroyed, as well as ensuring a United Nations military and police presence. The issue of creating reserve peace-keeping forces has now been raised. From this rostrum we hear the commitment of dozens of countries to peace-keeping operations. We need the blue helmets of peace, not the mercenary black helmets of death which have recently participated with increasing frequency in conflict zones around the world. Fully aware that peace-keeping operations are an important factor in the future new world order, my country, with its highly qualified doctors, nurses, engineers and rescue workers, would like to participate in peace-keeping operations. We accept and support the proposals that many countries have made here at the General Assembly during discussions of peace-keeping issues with regard to the need and opportunities for conducting training of military and civilian personnel on both a multilateral and a bilateral basis. Such possibilities are also open to us as participants in the Partnership for Peace programme of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). As a country experiencing a period of emergency and in need of immediate assistance because of natural disasters and social hardships, we warmly support the proposal of Argentina’s President Menem that a civilian service be created to provide immediate humanitarian assistance under the auspices of the United Nations. 32 Development is the main problem facing young democratic societies. Thirty years’ experience of North- South collaboration has taught us, the new 1990s generation of independent countries, instructive lessons. It is easy for our achievements and our real advantages to become lost in the picture of the protracted drop in production levels and the destruction of the social infrastructure. The people of Kyrgyzstan are grateful to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and other institutions in the United Nations family that have sought to help us at this difficult time. In the face of a sharp increase in drug trafficking, interwoven with transnational organized crime, first in our region and then through Russia to Europe and other continents, we need energetic and massive measures to block the drug-distribution routes and destroy production. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme has become truly critical in our region. As a whole, we would like to see greater action and coordination of the work of the United Nations specialized institutions with the new States, both at their headquarters and in their regional offices. It is noteworthy that not only traditional developed countries, but also developing countries, which bear the burden of their own numerous economic and social problems, have helped in the establishment of the newly independent States and their entry into the world order. And this has particular significance. We are firmly convinced that the timely rendering of full-fledged, effective assistance to us - countries with transitional economies that must now choose their own paths at this difficult time - will help us to stand more quickly on our own two feet, form the foundation for a market economy and develop democratic foundations for society. We ourselves will then be able to render speedier assistance to the more needy. We support such a policy of reaching out towards solidarity, mutual support and collaboration. Bearing in mind the close collaboration of countries with transitional economies with international financial and economic institutions, precise coordination and deeper interaction of the work of the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions are becoming increasingly necessary. The Kyrgyz Republic welcomes and shares the objectives and fundamental parameters of development set forth in the preliminary report of the Secretary-General, 'An Agenda for Development'. These are peace, economic growth, the environment, justice and democracy. The recent World Conference on Population and Development in Cairo and future Conferences on social development and the improvement of the status of women testify to the world’s deep concern about the situation of basic human needs at the turn of the next century. If human rights are all-inclusive, universal and inalienable, then these rights also pertain to all women and children on Earth. The improvement of the status of women is key to resolving vital social problems such as those involving population, education and health care. In other words, it is the most important issue on the eve of the twenty-first century for an agenda for humanity. In my country, we will fully support and are ready to cooperate with the newly appointed United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. We in Kyrgyzstan, a country in which over 80 ethnicities reside, seek to create equal and just conditions for all of our citizens. There are no restrictions on the development of culture, the arts, education or media in the languages of all ethnic groups. Along with an increase in mosques, the number of Orthodox and Protestant churches is growing. Committed to ideas of friendship and concord, we are consistently working on programmes and measures to halt migration from our country and to preserve the present multi-ethnic composition of society. On the basis of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities adopted at the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, my country, together with the Russian Federation, cosponsored a CIS convention on the rights of ethnic minorities, which is currently open for ratification to all other Commonwealth members. Democracy in my country is very fragile. Political pluralism, freedom of the press and speech, and adherence to human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Republic are not accidental gifts from above but genuine values for which a real struggle is being waged in society - the struggle between openness and isolation, blind force and respect for the law, totalitarian ways and commitment to freedom. But the people of Kyrgyzstan, headed by President Askar Akaev, having made its choice three years ago, firmly and unwaveringly stand for democracy and a market economy. 33 A tectonic political, social, and economic shift is taking place across the enormous Eurasian land mass. The success of the present transformations in Russia strengthens our own awareness of the irrevocability of the choice of the democratic way. Kyrgyzstan, like other nations of the Commonwealth of Independent States, is deeply committed to democracy, the principles of freedom and independence, and the philosophy and spirit of the creation of peace. My ancient people, yet still a young nation, like the 'Manas' - a Kyrgyz epic poem of a million lines - the millennium of which we will celebrate in 1995, is undergoing a renaissance. We realize that a long and thorny path awaits us. But the most important thing on that path is peace, which is the same for everyone on this Earth and is indivisible. I should like first of all, Mr. President, to tell you how pleased the Benin delegation is to see you presiding over this session of the General Assembly. This is an honour for all of Africa, and especially your country, with which Benin has age-old ties of friendship and, still more, of fraternity. At a time when, more than ever before, the United Nations is called upon to act in the interests of peace and the well-being of mankind, this election is acknowledgement by the international community not only of the dedication of Côte d’Ivoire to the cause of peace and prosperity but also of your personal qualities as a seasoned diplomat. Benin is proud to see a distinguished representative of a country from the subregion of West Africa assume this important responsibility, and can assure you, Sir, of the cooperation and support of its delegation - and here we wish also to congratulate the other members of the General Committee. I would be remiss if I did not align myself, with great emotion and pleasure, with what His Excellency Mr. Konan Bédié, President of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire said, that in your election we can already see that Africa is resisting marginalization. I should also like to pay tribute to your eminent predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana, who assumed with such great competence and skill the presidency of our Assembly at its forty-eighth session. He has left an indelible mark on this world Organization through his personal contribution to our efforts at revitalizing the General Assembly, restructuring the Security Council and resuming development. On behalf of the people and the Government of Benin, I should like to pay a most deserved tribute to the United Nations and its Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, for the intensive activities they have been carrying out for peace and development for all peoples, especially at this time when armed conflict, ethnic clashes and tribal warfare distort the basic values of mankind. I should also like to welcome the granting to the Sovereign Military Order of Malta of Observer status at the United Nations. Since our last session, positive developments have taken place in the settlement of internal, local and regional conflicts that have caused upheavals in the international arena. I would mention, among others, the emergence of a new South Africa, one that is united, democratic and non-racial, where each person can at last enjoy full citizenship. Benin hails once again the courage and determination of the South African people - courage and determination that have enabled all humanity to win this historic victory, one of dialogue over confrontation and of peace over violence. Our Organization, which is proud of its contribution, must see to it the consolidation of the policy of unity and national reconciliation and reconstruction pursued by President Nelson Mandela, whose wisdom and clear- sightedness are equalled only by the historic dimensions of the man himself. In Mozambique, our most cherished wish is for a continuation of the process of reconciliation currently under way until the final holding in October of free and democratic elections in that country, stricken by so many years of civil war. Similarly, we express the hope that in Angola the negotiations under way between the Angolan Government and UNITA might lead to an effective cease-fire and to the establishment of a lasting peace, which are absolute prerequisites for reconciliation and national reconstruction. With regard to the question of Palestine, we welcome the positive and irreversible developments towards a just and lasting settlement since the historic signing, between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel, of the Declaration of Principles on Palestinian autonomy in Gaza and Jericho. In the same context, the Benin delegation would encourage Israel and the Arab States to continue to improve their relations through cooperation and mutual understanding for the establishment of lasting peace in the Middle East. As regards the situation between Kuwait and Iraq, it is important, in the interest of security and stability in the Gulf, that Iraq confirm clearly, and without ambiguity, its recognition of the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and the international borders of Kuwait by agreeing, among other things, to Security Council resolution 833 (1993). Other conflicts are now in the process of being settled elsewhere, for example in Cambodia and Central 31 America, where praiseworthy efforts are under way with a view to the gradual and definitive normalization of the political situation. In spite of these encouraging facts, we regret to note that the persistent activities of forces for fragmentation and disintegration are hindering the achievement of peace in certain parts of the world. In this context, we should point out, inter alia, the very alarming situation in Somalia, where military intransigence and political intolerance are to no avail prolonging human suffering, jeopardizing the lives of the staff of United Nations peace-keeping and peacemaking operations, and provoking some irritation within the international community, whose valuable contribution to a peaceful and lasting settlement is absolutely necessary. It is time for the protagonists, on whom an acceptable solution to their conflicts depends, to show good will and flexibility. We deplore the fact that in Liberia, in spite of the considerable efforts made by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), supported by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and by the United Nations, the implementation of the Cotonou agreement has been carried out only begrudgingly. Six months after taking office on 7 March 1994, the National Transitional Government has not yet managed effectively to extend its authority to the entire country, whereas the disarmament and demobilization process is practically suspended. Since a return to normalcy in Liberia is absolutely necessary for the continuation of the programme of economic integration of the subregion of West Africa, my country urges the Liberian parties to abide by the Cotonou agreement so as to speed the return of the country to normalcy. Once again Benin encourages the international community to maintain and increase financial assistance so as to enable the ECOWAS Military Observer Group, expanded by troops from Uganda and Tanzania, to fully discharge its mandate. With regard to Rwanda, ravaged by a war reminiscent of another age, Benin joins in the indignation expressed by the international community by condemning most vigorously the massive and systematic violations of human rights and of international humanitarian law. We welcome the humanitarian activities and good offices of the United Nations, of the OAU, of France, of the United States of America, of the African countries, and particularly those of the subregion, as well as those of non-governmental organizations in coming to the assistance of refugees and helping to initiate a dialogue among Rwandans. The delegation of Benin is convinced that any lasting national reconciliation in Rwanda must be based on the Arusha agreement of 4 August 1993 in order to maximize the opportunities to rebuild the country. But in order to avoid a repetition of the Rwandan holocaust elsewhere, we should support efforts to identify those guilty of abuses, whoever they may be, so that they might answer for their crimes against humanity. In neighbouring Burundi, most recently torn by armed clashes, the return to a precarious calm and the agreement for a government that was recently signed by the parties to the conflict bear witness to a new awareness on the part of that fraternal people, the fate of whom had been of great concern to all peace- and freedom-loving men and women throughout the world. We urge them most earnestly to continue along this path so as to consolidate their unity and cohesion. Furthermore, the international community has followed very closely recent developments in the situation in Haiti. In fact, on the basis of Security Council 940 (1994), the United States Government showed firmness and intelligence by forcing the Port-au-Prince dictators to agree to give up the power they seized three years ago. Benin exhorts the United Nations, the Organization of American States and the United States of America to unite their efforts to bring about the effective reinstatement of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and the peaceful restoration of democracy in Haiti. The Republic of Benin is prepared, within its modest resources, to make its contribution to the triumph of peace and democracy in Haiti. In Europe - specifically in Bosnia and Herzegovina - it is to be regretted that the Serbs have rejected the latest peace plan of the Contact Group, which offered them 49 per cent of the Bosnian territory. We will welcome the agreement by the Belgrade authorities to deploy United Nations forces along their country’s borders and to enforce the international arms embargo. Faced with the intransigence of the Bosnian Serbs, the international community should take over the protection and defence of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia, so as to avoid any spread of this interminable conflict, which has already been exacerbated by the hateful practice of 'ethnic cleansing'. 32 Following the collapse of ideologies, the role of the United Nations in world affairs is and remains essential. We should avoid any weakening of its ability effectively and efficiently to promote peace, as this would do great harm to its credibility. The revitalization, restructuring and democratization of the United Nations must continue in order to increase its efficiency in carrying out the work it has undertaken. This, for example, should be the case for the Security Council, which has the responsibility of acting on behalf of Member States for the maintenance of international peace and security. Its legitimacy, its credibility and its effectiveness will be strengthened if we are able to take steps to enlarge it and change the composition of its membership so as to reflect the increase in the number of States Members of this world Organization. Aware of the fact that, in this new context, the Security Council cannot remain as it was designed and created a half-century ago, the delegation of Benin is in favour of a patient search for consensus on all issues pertaining to its reform. The production, international transfer and accumulation of arms are a threat to peace and stability the world over. This is why the international community’s commitment to peace requires the firm determination to make real progress in the process of general and complete disarmament under international control. In the area of conflict prevention and crisis management, we must strengthen the capabilities of the United Nations and support the idea of good offices and of preventive diplomacy as advocated by the Secretary-General in the Agenda for Peace. Respect for the principle of the sovereignty of States could hinder the implementation of this approach. Indeed, crises or conflicts today are for the most part internal in nature - civil wars, territorial partitions, ethnic clashes, religious or tribal struggles, and so forth. But these crises and conflicts can also threaten international peace and security. Hence there is a balance to be struck between intervention and respect for the sovereignty of States. In this context, we shall continue to encourage close cooperation with regional organizations, pursuant to Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. Within Africa, there is already in place a mechanism for preventing, managing and settling conflicts which makes the development and strengthening of such cooperation possible. I would also mention, as part of regional contributions to global efforts for peace, the conclusions reached by the Third Ministerial Meeting of the Zone of Peace and Cooperation in the South Atlantic, held in Brasilia on 21 and 22 September 1994. We can never emphasize enough the close relationship between peace, democracy, human rights and sustainable development. And we should be pleased that our Organization offers a proper framework for the achievement of consensus on this relationship. The Declaration and Programme of Action of the important World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna in 1993 prove that the international community is determined to face up to these non-military threats to peace and security the world over. Economic and social issues are of concern today to the entire world and raise moral issues among politicians, Governments and representatives of civilian society. The end of the cold war, far from ironing out difficulties, has further widened the gap between the developed and the developing countries. The developed and the developing countries must work together and understand one another if there is to be progress and, especially, peace for all. There are many social and economic problems facing the world, and we must attack these ills at their very roots. The preparations for the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the creation of the United Nations, and the major conferences it has organized since 1994, provide us with an opportunity to better deal with the major problems that are undermining and marring today’s world. Above and beyond general political declarations, promises unkept and wishes unfulfilled, all the actors in the international community must by common agreement draw up concrete, effective and immediate solutions that will allow us to avoid chaos in the developing countries, in particular in Africa and in the least developed countries. Otherwise, our expectations for the beginning of the twenty-first century will not be met. None the less, there is room for hope when we remember that the Assembly, in resolution 47/181 of 22 December 1992, asked the Secretary-General to submit to it a report on an agenda for development, after consulting with Member States. The drafting of this agenda, to be adopted during the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, will be a clear declaration of the right to development and a reorientation 33 of the objectives and priorities of the United Nations system towards socio-economic activities and programmes designed first and foremost to eliminate poverty and then to develop human resources through education, training, the creation of productive employment, and social integration. It is thus possible to change the current situation and to reverse the process of impoverishment, aggravated by economic stagnation. The agenda for development will usefully complement Agenda 21 and the Agenda for Peace in the quest for sustainable development. Our vision of the twenty-first century and our prospects for the future should be illuminated and strengthened by the effective implementation of the various programmes and plans of action adopted since the beginning of this decade within the framework of the United Nations system. I would like to cite, as examples, the Plan of Action for children, the Programme of Action for the least developed countries in the 1990s, and the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF). While the implementation of the first two programmes has already begun and we will already be able to take stock of them a mid-term review in 1995, UN-NADAF is still in its infancy. Indeed, there has been no concrete action, no funding for projects and no commitment of financial resources since the adoption of the new programme in December 1991 by the General Assembly. Furthermore, the planned resumed session to continue and complete negotiations on the draft resolution to create a diversification fund for African commodities has remained wishful thinking - for want, we are told, of a president to lead the debates and to conclude the work - and all this, in spite of the efforts made by the President of last year’s General Assembly session. None the less, we welcome the conclusions and recommendations of the second part of the thirty-fourth session of the Committee for Programme and Coordination on a revised, system-wide plan of action for economic recovery and development in Africa. But we need not limit ourselves to establishing a closer relationship between a system-wide plan and UN- NADAF or to determining the priority sectors to be the focal points of action carried out thanks to the cooperation of United Nations bodies for the remaining period of the plan’s implementation. In addition to the present resources, we must mobilize supplementary resources for the effective implementation of the activities and programmes involved. The economic and social crises that today are causing upheaval in Africa have highlighted the challenges to be taken up by that continent in order to make progress along the path of development. To cope with these crises, most of our countries have undertaken far-reaching political and economic reforms. In Benin, we are continuing our march forward to make sure that our democratic process - begun almost five years ago - takes root and that our national economy is consolidated. In spite of substantial efforts and sacrifices, our political and economic structures remain fragile and vulnerable. Furthermore, taking up the challenges of the 1990s in Africa necessarily means finding rapid and lasting solutions to problems linked to foreign indebtedness, seeking an inflow of new financial and other resources to meet the growing development needs, ensuring the transfer of new and appropriate technology; and promoting a truly open and equitable system of international trade, as well as encouraging the diversification and modernization of African economies. As regards external debt, the developed countries will have to exert clear and resolute political determination by pursuing a policy of cancelling outright the official debt of the African and least developed countries; by deciding, in the managing boards of the multilateral financial institutions, to reduce by 50 per cent the multilateral debt of the developing countries, particularly of the African and least developed countries; and by negotiating with the banking institutions a rescheduling of commercial debt. We remain convinced that these initiatives are within the scope of the Governments of the developed countries and can be implemented in a demonstration that the world is changing. With regard to international trade, the mixed results for Africa of the negotiations of the Uruguay Round give us little hope that, within the framework of international trade, our countries will soon emerge from the marginalization in which they have existed since the late 1980s. As in all previous rounds of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the Uruguay Round led to the elimination of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers. But the common estimates of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development show that the overall result of this eighth round of negotiations will only benefit the industrial countries. For 34 Africa, for example, the OECD studies predict losses of over $2 billion by the year 2002, not to mention the fact that the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific that are linked to the European Union by the Lomé Convention risk losing certain advantages they have enjoyed until now. Furthermore, the results of the negotiations of the Uruguay Round are making the developing countries, particularly those of Africa, dependent on food products imported from developed countries, whereas the objective of the current strategies is to ensure food security in Africa. In such circumstances, Benin earnestly hopes that the first action taken by the World Trade Organization will be to close the loopholes of the negotiated text by making bold decisions and recommendations on behalf of Africa and thereby correcting drawbacks foreseen from the outset. The decisions and recommendations of the Earth Summit will, as they are implemented, gradually become solid landmarks for current and future generations in the building of a society that, thanks to the achievement of sustainable development, will not run the risk of self- destruction. In this framework, Benin welcomes the adoption on 6 May 1994 in Barbados of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. Benin also welcomes the conclusion in Paris on 17 June of the International Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa. We hope that this Convention and the regional Annex for implementation in Africa will serve as a basis for a new contract between Governments, donors and local populations in their efforts to combat desertification and mitigate the effects of drought. This new contract must be reflected in firm and precise commitments of financial resources and the transfer of ecologically sound technology. If it is not, we will find ourselves in the same unfortunate situation that led, because of a lack of sufficient resources and the poor management of those allocated, to the non-implementation of the results of the United Nations Conference on Desertification held in Nairobi in 1977. Benin therefore appeals to all States to attend the signing ceremony for the Convention on 14 and 15 October in Paris. The curtain has barely dropped on the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development, which marks the birth of a new process for population and development strategies. The intensity of debate during the Conference was commensurate with the importance of the issue. In order to meet the challenge of the development to which countries throughout the world aspire, we must set our children and women, who represent the majority of the populations of our countries, along the road to progress, which requires information, education and training. The work of the preparatory committees for important United Nations conferences being organized at the moment - especially the World Summit for Social Development, the Fourth World Conference on Women, the second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and the entry into force on 16 November 1994 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, completed last July with the agreement on Part XI - will strengthen the positive trend clearly expressed during earlier negotiations. Nevertheless, the life-giving flame fed by the spirit of Rio de Janeiro might go out if intellectual efforts are not complemented by a mobilization of new and addition financial resources to carry out all the activities planned. The World Summit for Social Development will bring together for the first time Heads of State or Government in order to take decisions on social development. Benin believes that the declaration and programme of action to be adopted in Copenhagen in March 1995 should not be limited to acknowledging and accepting the fact that Africa is the continent facing the greatest number of social problems. These two documents should be a reference point that clearly defines concrete measures, an implementation schedule and the estimated costs of activities aimed at eliminating poverty and creating productive employment and social integration. Benin suggests that the Copenhagen Summit recommend the proclamation of an international decade for the eradication of poverty, which would be the continuation of the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty adopted under General Assembly resolution 48/183. The new international situation calls for strengthening, democratizing and rationalizing the activities of the United Nations, and it is up to us the Member States to make an outstanding contribution in the pursuit of the noble objectives of peace, justice and development. We feel that this is possible if all Member States respect the obligations incumbent upon them under the Charter. 35 The delegation of Benin is convinced that our current deliberations will be guided by a common determination to take concerted and concrete steps best suited to the necessity of maintaining peace and promoting prosperity throughout the world. In particular, this will require a rejection of indecisiveness and self-absorption. First of all, I am happy to express to you, Sir, my personal congratulations on your unanimous election to the responsible post of President of the General Assembly. We are all the more pleased because your human qualities and professional skills are certain to make a valuable contribution to the success of this session of the General Assembly and because you represent Côte d’Ivoire and Africa, a brother continent of Latin America, whose hopes and aspirations we share. Our thanks go as well to your distinguished predecessor, the representative of Guyana, Samuel Insanally, who so skilfully presided over the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. From this rostrum, the rostrum of world peace, which has seen a succession of the most notable representatives of all the nations, I address the peoples of the globe on behalf of 5.5 million Hondurans. Honduras has emerged from the remarkable culture of the Mayas, who, in centuries past, invented the zero and developed mathematics, cultivated architecture, predicted eclipses, and produced an extraordinarily accurate calendar. The ruins of Copán bear eloquent and beautiful testimony to the greatness of a civilization that strove to keep a written record of all that it did. Today, on the eve of the twenty-first century, we can barely decipher the wisdom contained in their petroglyphs. I am speaking, then, on behalf of a people whose roots go deep down into history, a people that after some centuries brought forth such world-class Central Americanists and pan-Americanists as Francisco Morazán and José Cecilio del Valle. Like the Maya, the people of Honduras are deeply peace-loving, and their democratic calling has evolved unblemished. In the midst of the Central American war, Honduras remained at peace. None the less, it was not spared the harsh consequences of the great Central American crisis that devastated the region during the last two decades and from whose aftermath we still suffer. Notwithstanding the many virtues of the Honduran people, we are still afflicted by economic, social, cultural and health problems that hamper development, obstruct the full exercise of human rights and immerse many families in dire poverty. Exactly eight months ago today, I took on the leadership of the destiny of Honduras through the freely expressed will of our people. We are preparing the country for the titanic struggle against corruption, the hard battle against poverty and the fight against illiteracy, for stabilization of the economy and for conservation of the environment. Peace and development require, above all, shelter, sustenance, land and jobs for all. They require universal justice, hope for everyone and promising prospects for every woman, man, girl and boy. In the face of all the challenges of the present, we have opted to implement a moral revolution capable of straightening out the administration of the State and of transforming the country peacefully and democratically. The driving principles and values behind that moral revolution are larger than my people and Honduras’s geographical dimensions. The moral revolution, behind which I throw myself wholeheartedly, permeates our links with other States and the international legal community. The moral revolution means good government, economic growth with equity, transparency in the administration of the State and decency in the taking of important decisions and in daily work; it is political democracy, national identity, lush forests and healthy children; it is economics with a human face, the theory and practice of integration with the fraternal countries of Central America, international solidarity and support for the peaceful settlement of conflicts; it is, in short, a clear and resolute step towards mankind’s next millennium. On the global level we are witnessing the last rites of the cold war. We have seen the last of the after-effects of the Second World War, effects that lingered on into this decade. We are witnessing the globalization of markets and the resurgence of ethnic groups crying out for their own identity. We are seeing the unilateral actions of some States give way to multilateral operations framed by the legislation of this great world gathering. We see that colonialism has come crashing down like, in the words of our national anthem, a black-feathered bird, and that cooperation among free, sovereign and independent nations is growing day by day. We are participants in the historic transformation of democracy from a national value into a universal one, from something practised intermittently in certain countries into a standard form of behaviour for States. All this heralds a new dawn for mankind. But all these triumphs, however grand, are still not enough. The differences between North and South necessitate a far-reaching dialogue in order that mankind may not be torn asunder yet again. International cooperation for peaceful development must take place soon and to a greater degree than that seen during times of war or conflict. Central America is emerging, still licking its wounds, from the savage blows of two decades of deep crisis and bloodshed. A quarter of a million dead is the huge and tragic price that Central Americans paid for the cold war. Billions of dollars were poured into destruction and military confrontation between brothers. Now, unfortunately, only scant resources are being invested in building new democracies and new economies. This is a challenge for Central Americans and the international community alike. Our region is replacing the agenda of war with that of peace and sustainable development. Our region - and in this respect my country is a trail-blazer - is bringing down the curtain on an era of confrontation and bringing it back up on one of unity and solidarity. In the era just past we had a lot of help; but for the one that is opening up we can see very little. Although our own efforts are the engine of our development, international cooperation can strengthen us and speed up our progress. For this reason we call the attention of the international community to the fact that all those who contributed to our destruction have a moral obligation to cooperate in our reconstruction and to help undo the reversals the region suffered because of the two decades of crisis. My Government and people view with profound optimism the positive turn of events that has taken place in the conduct of Governments. Louis XIV considered himself the State: 'L’état, c’est moi.' Hegel envisaged the State as God’s path towards the Earth, perfect reason which never errs. That led to the doctrine of raison d’état as the motivating force behind the conduct of Governments. Now, in the post-cold-war period, a new motivating force is emerging: humanitarian reason. This change is symbolized by our passage not only from one 2 century to the next, but, indeed, from one millennium to the next. It is, in effect, a thousand-year leap: from governmental policy based on the interests of the State to international relations inspired by humanitarian concerns. In this period of radical transition for mankind, there are lights at the end of the tunnel: the collapse of various barriers, the weakening of racial segregation, the casting off of shackles that had kept different nationalities artificially bound together, the worldwide spread of democracy, and the emergence of détente as a feature of inter-State relations. These trends augur well for the building of a new world order based on peace, mutual support and broad tolerance. The growing realization that reason must prevail over force should prompt our national leaders to convert those rays of hope into great beacons for the maintenance of peace, security, democracy and, hence, sustainable development. My country and people regard the development of the new international economic order with stoicism as the world becomes divided into blocs based on economic and strategic interests. The nation-State is suffering a crisis of identity and threats to its sovereignty. We are witnessing new geopolitical formations in which power is being transnationalized and the struggle for hegemony is passing into another dimension. The new structure of the world economy is marked by the supranational nature of decision- making in the field of finance and international trade. If this emerging new international economic order is not managed prudently, if we do not infuse it with humanism and morality, we run the risk that in the short term the already-existing rift in the world between poor nations and rich nations - what we used to call the North and the South - will widen further. The following words of a Honduran poet speak eloquently to this: 'The poor are so many that it is hard to forget them - so many that they could be the pallbearers of a celestial body.' It is vital to have a more equitable new international order. Now more than ever, justice in the South is a prerequisite for peace in the North. The industrialized States need to demonstrate their readiness to respond to the economic proposals of the developing countries, which represent two thirds of the Earth’s people. These thoughts should serve merely to stimulate our imagination in the quest for solutions to prevent the deterioration of our political, economic and social systems. In the process of globalization, under the banner of democracy in the political field and the market economy in the economic field, we have been making intense efforts at the regional and subregional levels to reduce political and economic differences among countries and regions on the basis of the norms and institutions that should guide our collective life towards a basic model, one fashioned in accordance with the principles that underpin this world Organization. The United Nations must therefore pursue the analysis and discussion of the major issues that call for thorough reflection in this process of political, economic and social globalization. Indeed, there has been a marked increase in recourse to the United Nations as an instrument to prevent, avert or halt international conflicts, and in order to legitimize the right of intervention in the case of conflict between a State and its population or a State and the international community - but always in search of peace, freedom and democracy. The manifest resolve of the States Members of this Organization to work in concert towards this objective has been remarkable and vigorous, but it should be borne in mind that good intentions are of little use unless supported by the political will to take the difficult decisions required by situations such as this. Let the apologists of violence and those who are nostalgic for power have no doubt that our political will to avert regional conflicts is unswerving, and that our political action is designed to promote stability, legitimacy and the development of effective democracies. We share the concern and the distress at the events occurring in the sister country of Haiti. There is a pressing need to put an end to this grave situation, which is an affront to human dignity and to the self- determination of peoples. My Government supports a peaceful settlement of the problem and is ready, within its limitations, to take part in a United Nations peace-keeping mission once democracy is restored to that fraternal country. Just as we felt great satisfaction at the signing, last year, of the historic mutual recognition agreement between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), we are gratified by the decision of the State of Israel and the Kingdom of Jordan to sign the Washington Declaration of 25 July 1994. It reflects the aspirations of the two peoples and Governments and seeks to find formulas for mutual understanding that will put an end to their substantial differences. 3 My Government was particularly pleased to see a bleak chapter of human history in South Africa end with the coming to office of a new Government led by President Nelson Mandela. Today we look forward to seeing the aspirations to freedom, peace, democracy and development whose fulfilment that great leader desires for his people become a reality. Similarly, though with a sadness that I cannot conceal, I must say that events in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the tragedy of Rwanda cause us considerable distress and anguish. These fratricidal conflicts should impel us to act urgently to eliminate armed aggression, genocide and the practice of 'ethnic cleansing' once and for all. We cannot continue to waver in implementing Security Council resolutions. Although this Organization has never played as big a leadership role as it is playing now, it is also true that compliance with its resolutions in the framework of operations to maintain international peace and security has been put into question. My Government deeply regrets the resulting tragic events that have claimed hundreds of thousands of lives and caused a massive exodus of refugees. We therefore urge parties in conflict to act in a spirit of reconciliation, certain that the international community will continue to extend humanitarian assistance to them. In the case of Cuba, the Government of Honduras agrees with the overall objective of restoring democracy to that country, in the framework of the inter-American system. However, we believe that the policy pursued by the Government of the United States of America is not consistent with the need to remedy the critical political, economic and social conditions prevailing in that brotherly country, and we sincerely hope that dialogue between the parties will prevail in this dispute. The countries of the Central American region have continued to pursue policies based on resolutions adopted at presidential Summits, with a view to creating a new economic, social and political structure for the benefit of Central Americans. In this regard, at the recent fifteenth meeting of Central American Presidents, held in the brotherly Republic of Costa Rica, new circumstances prompted us to adopt an integral strategy for sustainable development in the region, a national and regional strategy which we call the 'Alliance for Sustainable Development'. This is a Central American initiative in the political, moral, economic, social and ecological fields, whose agenda will be further enriched with the holding of the environmental Summit in Managua, Nicaragua, on 12 and 13 October, and the International Conference for Peace and Development in Central America, to be held on 24 and 25 October this year in Tegucigalpa, Honduras. The International Conference will be a good opportunity for the international community, as it did a decade ago in the midst of a tragic confrontation, to express its solidarity with a region that has turned war into reconciliation, conflict into human progress and totalitarianism into democracy. It would be terrible indeed if the world that extended its hand to us in those difficult times were to fail now to help us enjoy the dividends of peace. We participated with similar enthusiasm and optimism in the Fourth Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State and Government in Cartagena de Indias, Republic of Colombia. As everyone present knows, there was broad discussion there of aspects of trade and integration as elements in Ibero-American development. We attended that important meeting with the political resolve to tackle the problems that are besetting our countries and causing dangerous economic and social imbalances, thus requiring a search for concerted responses that will enable us to develop machinery to tackle the challenges of the future more effectively. In accordance with this commitment, my Government believes that, although dialogue has been strengthened, it is even more important to pursue the policies adopted at that forum. In this context, we reaffirm our fullest support for the joint initiatives, which are based on the principles of representative democracy, the defence and promotion of human rights, respect for sovereignty and the principles of non-intervention and the self-determination of peoples. On a different tack, I should like to inform this world forum that the degradation of the environment is a matter of constant concern to us. In this regard, my Government attaches the highest priority to the search for a solution to this problem. Mechanisms have been established to implement the resolutions adopted at the Earth Summit held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June 1992. We reaffirm our commitment to promoting a balanced and integrated approach to sustainable development, as set forth in the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. It is important that the Assembly expand on that idea and build an awareness of the world’s environmental unity so that a new relationship between mankind and nature can emerge, allowing us to work together for its conservation and survival. 4 Regarding this sensitive matter, our National Congress is currently seized with the Conventions on Biological Diversity and on Climate Change, with a view to translating our words into deeds through their speedy debate and adoption. My Government wishes to raise one other issue today, with a sense of full responsibility and an awareness of the gravity of the effects of the crisis faced by developing countries and the risks involved for the stability of the world economy. We must acknowledge the importance of the signing of the Final Act of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, as well as the agreement creating the World Trade Organization, with a view to strengthening the multilateral trade system. We trust that these instruments will help to ensure the liberalization and expansion of international trade for the benefit of the developing countries. But if in pursuing this goal the industrialized nations do not act in accordance with the changes taking place in international economic relations, efforts within the framework of South-South cooperation will have to be stepped up. This is becoming not merely an alternative, but a fundamental challenge to our capacity to act in these negotiations, which can stem only from the coordination and support that impart resolution, continuity and effectiveness to the actions of the group of developing countries. In the context of what the United Nations means to all of us, my Government has attached the greatest importance to and has followed with great interest the process of reform of the Charter of the United Nations, particularly with respect to the Security Council. In the prevailing international circumstances and given the role the Security Council has been called upon to play in the maintenance of international peace and security, the reforms that the membership is calling for, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Organization, should be studied thoroughly and adopted with meticulous care. Any reform in the membership of the Security Council needs to take into account the criteria established in the relevant Articles of the Charter. It is essential to respect the principle of equitable geographical representation, which would permit us to increase the number of permanent and non-permanent members democratically and to consider whether or not it would be desirable to create a new category - that of semi-permanent member - as has been suggested in the open-ended working group on the restructuring of the Security Council established by the Secretary-General. In this process of change, in addition to the principles that I have outlined we need to consider what basic indicators would enable us to set the number of members at the right level. This is also true of the study on the veto right, currently enjoyed by the five permanent members; my Government feels that this right should not be granted to any category, whether permanent or semi- permanent. Thus, Honduras is not opposed to the establishment of new categories provided this is done in accordance with the principle of the sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical distribution. With faith in God, in truth and in justice, I shall now return to my country to continue building the society we have chosen and contributing to the attainment of the kind of world to which we all aspire. May everything work to the good of mankind. It is my pleasure, at the outset, to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election and to wish you and the members of the Bureau every success in the discharge of your duties. Your election is a mark of the confidence and high regard in which both you and your country are held by the international community. Your wisdom and your forbearance will be crucial to the successful outcome of the current session. I should like to express deep appreciation for the exemplary manner in which your predecessor conducted the work of the Assembly during his tenure last year. I also wish to express my gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts to enhance the Organization’s ability to meet the challenges of a rapidly evolving world. It is gratifying to observe that the membership of the United Nations now encompasses several recently independent States. We share bonds of religious and cultural affinity with some; we share friendships and mutual respect with all. We hope that the principle of universality, which has always been the cornerstone of the United Nations, will soon encompass the remaining 15 peoples and regions, so that this Organization can truly represent the collective conscience of mankind. It is, I believe, fitting to extend heartfelt congratulations to President Nelson Mandela, to Vice-President Frederik De Klerk, and to the people of South Africa. They have together established a new order in their country, one founded on justice and equality. The world rejoices at the return of South Africa to the fold of the international community of nations. The South African people have proved that peace is always possible, so long as all are given the chance to participate in its building. This is a theme that bears consideration. As we approach a landmark in the history of the United Nations - the fiftieth anniversary of its foundation - it is appropriate to look forward rather than back; to take stock of things to come rather than things past. It is appropriate to consider the shape that our global order is taking. South Africa offers a new paradigm, a fresh vision for a changing world. It shows us that a new order must have room for everyone. We must be able to listen to all voices: to the weak and the powerful alike. A new order must be inclusive and must actively encourage participation at every level: for in our ever- more interdependent world, the future of one is the future of all. This, I believe, goes to the very heart of global peace. We are called upon, then, to articulate a new approach. We must protect the rule of law, but we must go further, and ensure that democracy, pluralism and respect for human rights come to govern the life of nations. We must evolve new procedures of cooperation, communication and accommodation. We must promote social responsibility, national commitment and international obligation. Nations must learn to coexist with their neighbours; but more than this, they must learn to work willingly together as partners in the enterprise of peace. Such a transformation is taking place in the Middle East. My region has been synonymous with conflict and war for decades. At last we have an historic opportunity to resolve the Arab-Israeli conflict, and to fashion in its place a new commonwealth of peace, hope and participation for all. The question of Palestine has been Jordan’s main concern. Family ties, geographic contiguity, and shared history and traditions ensure that this is so. Over the years, Jordan has extended support and encouragement to our Palestinian brethren. Our contributions and sacrifices to the Palestinian cause from 1948 onwards have been widely acknowledged. My country has received successive waves of refugees and returnees, at a huge cost to our economy, imposing an impossible burden on our limited resources. Yet we remain committed to our democratization process, to the protection of civil liberties and human rights, and to the provision of decent living conditions and services for all our citizens. Underlying this commitment is our belief that broad-based popular involvement in civil society is fundamental to its health. This is why Jordan has been able to weather the ravages of war, to survive the long years of turmoil in our region. If Jordan has been on the front line of war, so too has it been on the front line of peace. In those well- known words of Security Council resolution 242 (1967), which my country helped to draft, Jordan has always worked steadfastly for a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. We promoted the genesis of the current process with the Madrid Conference of 1991. When the Israeli Government of the day refused to negotiate with the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), Jordan stepped into the breach, helping the Palestinians to assume their proper role by providing an umbrella for their participation. Now the PLO, the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people, is negotiating directly with Israel. They are installed in Gaza and Jericho, and conduct their affairs as they see fit: their destiny is at last in their own hands. Jordan welcomes these developments, and will continue to do everything in its power to ensure the success of Palestinian autonomy arrangements. On the Jordanian-Israeli track, our common agenda has paved the way for us to agree upon modalities in areas such as water, the environment, energy, territory, borders and regional security. These agreements resulted in the meeting between His Majesty King Hussein and Prime Minister Rabin of Israel, on 25 July 1994, at which they signed the Washington Declaration. This historic document ended the state of war between Jordan and Israel. I myself have just held constructive talks with President Clinton and Foreign Minister Peres, the goal of which is to build a framework of trilateral development as well as an economic equilibrium in the region, and to maintain the momentum towards peace. Jordan and Israel are engaged in substantive talks, seeking just and mutually agreeable solutions to the outstanding issues listed in our common agenda. Our aim 16 is to conclude a treaty of peace based on solid grounds that can withstand the winds of change. Such a treaty, we believe, will delineate our rights and duties under conditions of peace. It will open the door to cooperation at the regional level, so that the benefits of peace may be enjoyed by our peoples. It has always been Jordan’s vision that the Middle East, cradle of civilization and birthplace of the three great monotheistic religions, should be a region of cultural tolerance and mutual interdependence. Important as our bilateral talks with Israel may be, we are keenly aware that no two nations stand alone. Our aim remains a comprehensive peace. Many of the issues we are currently addressing defy the confines of bilateralism and require regional and international participation. One such issue concerns the spiritual significance of the city of Jerusalem. For believers in the three great monotheistic faiths, Jerusalem must be the ultimate symbol of peace and its glorious manifestation. A final settlement on the political and administrative status of the city, however, will occur in negotiations between Palestinians and Israelis. Any arrangement reached must serve the needs of the millions of followers of Islam, Christianity and Judaism. The economic dimension of peace is likewise a transnational concern. The economies of the Middle East have been shattered by the conflict. They must be revived if peace is to take root on the ground. Access to more equitable opportunities for economic growth will be vital. International debt relief and write-off strategies should be planned, encompassing improved concessionary terms by the Clubs of Paris and London. But the States of the region must also play their part. Restrictions on trade should be relaxed. We must develop a non-discriminatory approach to sustainable development and economic well-being. We hope that the Middle East-North Africa Economic Summit at Casablanca will build on the achievements of the Regional Economic Development Working Group and prove a useful forum to explore the potential partnership between Governments, private businesses and international financial institutions - for this partnership surely holds the key to the economic future of the region. International changes wrought by the end of the cold war have affected the political situation in the Middle East as elsewhere. The transformation of world power politics has been accompanied by a shift in attitude, modifying the cost benefit calculus of regional States. National strategic objectives can no longer be sought at the cost of others in a supposedly 'zero sum game'. In the context of a regional security regime, the size, the role and the function of the armed forces in individual States of the region are likely to undergo radical changes. These will favour peace-keeping functions, allowing scarce resources to be released for development needs. ln this context, Jordan fully supports the five dimensions of world peace and security outlined by the Secretary-General. I would like to add that Jordan supports the ongoing effort to streamline the United Nations, and fully endorses the attempt to increase the number of permanent members on the Security Council. We also support the American proposal that peace-keeping operations be strengthened by additional personnel, more effective field capabilities, greater cooperation between the United Nations and participating countries and a more united approach to training. Here again, Jordan is at the forefront of change. Our armed forces as peace-keepers under the United Nations command as far afield as Georgia, Angola and the former Yugoslavia value the opportunity to take part in these missions, for in a very real sense, they allow us to participate in the unfolding world order. Jordan is proud to be involved in shaping global security arrangements. As the peace process develops, it will be necessary to promote a common regional identity and a shared regional vision. All the Middle East must contribute to the articulation of this vision. The key, again, is participation. If the countries and peoples of the region have a say in shaping its future, they will have a stake in its success. And success will accordingly be all the more likely; for the diversity of our region is a positive asset that we must learn to use creatively. We will inevitably differ on certain issues, just as we will agree on others. But we must be able to discuss our views in the knowledge that they will be heard, for honest communication is the basis of genuine involvement in any joint enterprise. In this spirit, Jordan feels honour-bound to register its concern over threats to the process of global reconciliation. Inertia must not be allowed to dominate the conduct of world affairs. Deep-seated conflicts will not disappear by themselves. We urge the international community of States to take swift action to facilitate their resolution. 17 One glaring example is the ongoing situation in Bosnia Herzegovina. The appalling practices of 'ethnic cleansing' and genocide continue even as we speak. My country abhors these atrocities. Jordan supports all the international community’s efforts to end this tragic and wasteful conflict, and we have taken positive steps to alleviate the hardship it has caused. Jordan has joined the Non-Aligned Movement’s task force on Bosnia. Our soldiers, who form the second largest contingent of the United Nations peace-keeping effort in the Balkans, are engaged in both humanitarian relief and peace-keeping duties. Jordan has supported the Vienna and Washington Agreements to establish a federation between the Muslims and Croats of Bosnia, and has welcomed the peace plan advanced by the Contact Group, supported by the G-7 summit in Naples. The Serbian challenge to the plan, in the face of Muslim and Croat acceptance, is cause for deep disappointment. I turn now to the situation in the Gulf. The importance of stability and security cannot be overstated. International norms must be observed; the territorial integrity of all States must be preserved. Their sovereignty and political independence must be upheld on the basis of non-interference in their internal affairs. My country also wishes to reiterate its serious concern for the plight of the people of Iraq, where living conditions are deteriorating rapidly. We intend to do our utmost to alleviate the suffering of the Iraqi people, so far as is consistent with the provisions of United Nations resolutions. The distorted image of Islam remains a cause for grave concern. The attention of this body should be turned to the spreading of Islamophobia, or hate for Muslims. This phenomenon occurs in all manner of ways, from the purely verbal to the bluntly physical. Its proponents deal in inflammatory rhetoric. They preach the inevitability of cultural apocalypse, tarring all Muslims with the brush of fanatical extremism. They ignore the fact that Islam is a broad and adaptable concept and institution. One billion Muslims now live on this earth. Thus, Islam encompasses all shades of political opinion, different patterns of theological thought, and countless varieties of human experience. Jordan urges Member States to join forces in bringing about a better understanding of Islam as a religion, a culture and a civilization. The expression of anti-Muslim sentiment, and other manifestations of Islamophobia, should be monitored and combated by educational campaigns, cultural exchanges and similar endeavours. We have always advocated an interfaith dialogue as the surest way to combat bigotry and stereotyping. More than a decade ago now, I stood before this Assembly and called, on behalf of my country, for a new international humanitarian order. That led to the establishment of the Independent Commission on International Humanitarian Issues. The Commission was charged with investigating a wide range of pressing humanitarian issues. It performed its duties well, producing a series of reports that made clear the scale of the impending global humanitarian disaster. It would be comforting to stand before this Assembly today and tell it that its work has made a significant difference. It would be comforting, but it would not be true. A new international humanitarian order has not come into being. The powerless remain powerless. The dispossessed have not recovered their birthrights. There are more refugees, more street children, more innocent victims of conflict than ever before. What is worse, these issues are still addressed in a piecemeal fashion. It is often said that one should not try to treat a mass of symptoms, but to seek out root causes. Remarkably, it sometimes seems that far from seeking causes we are doing our best to ignore the symptoms. Today, I have tried to address causes. I have spoken of the fundamental need for participation at all levels. I have put before the Assembly a vision of a global order characterized by partnership and communication, tolerance and trust. In some places this vision is on the road to realization; in others, it has seldom been more remote. The alternatives are very clear, and the choice is ours. I pledge my country’s full support to this Organization, for as we move towards the twenty-first century, and as the Organization moves towards its fiftieth anniversary, the ideal that inspired the Charter of the United Nations has never been more important. I should like to convey to you, Sir, my warmest congratulations on your election to the presidency of this Assembly and to wish you great success in the performance of your duties. With your election, the members of the General Assembly recognize in your country, Côte d’Ivoire, the decisive contribution of Africa to the work of the Organization. I am confident that the General Assembly will follow the course of consensus that was set in the previous session, under the leadership of Ambassador Insanally, to whom I should like to pay a warm tribute. Moreover, I wish to once again assure Mr. Boutros-Ghali, who honoured us last April with his official visit to my country, of the full cooperation of the Spanish authorities in assisting him in the difficult task he faces of meeting the increasingly complex challenges with which our Organization is faced. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, in his address on behalf of the European Union, has set forth our common points of view in this general debate. These reflect the advances made on the path to a common foreign and security policy, which is a major goal of the Union. On behalf of my delegation, I wish now to consider some issues in more detail. The fundamental changes in the international system that we have witnessed in recent years have provided the United Nations with the great opportunity finally to establish itself as the venue for the universal harmonization of the efforts of the international community to fulfil the common purposes contained in its Charter. However, they have also confronted the Organization with one of the greatest challenges in its history. Some have even cast doubt on the actual ability of the United Nations to contribute effectively to the solution of the many conflicts that have arisen or have been rekindled over the past few years. After the first shock, provoked by crises such as those in the former Yugoslavia, Somalia and Angola, we have been confronted with appalling situations such as that in Rwanda, where the Organization’s limited means have unfortunately proved insufficient to redress the plight of millions of human beings. At the same time, the United Nations, with its resources stretched to the limit, is undergoing a financial crisis which can be addressed only with the resolute cooperation of the Member States. This should entail, first of all, the timely payment of their financial contributions, an obligation specified in the Charter. Only then will the Organization have the necessary means to achieve its objectives. Moreover, these means must be used in the most effective possible way. Beyond the efforts for renewal already achieved or in progress, we must undertake a process of careful consideration at the highest level, with a view to deciding whether we are willing to provide the Organization with the legal, material and financial instruments it needs to meet successfully the growing demands made on it by the international community. The credibility of the United Nations is at stake. The reform of the Security Council is an extremely important and complex matter, which will have to be accomplished through a careful process of dialogue leading to an understanding among all Member States. Spain, which in the last two years has been a non-permanent member of the Security Council, reiterates its position in favour of a revision, without undue haste, of the composition and functioning of the Security Council, based on the criteria of representativity, efficiency and transparency, with the ultimate goal of reinforcing the legitimacy of the actions of the Council. Spain, which has taken and will continue to take an active part in the meetings of the Ad Hoc Working Group of this Assembly, favours a moderate increase of the Council’s membership. This would allow for a more frequent presence in the Council of States with specific 13 weight and influence in international relations, and which are, likewise, able and willing to contribute in a significant way to the maintenance of international peace and security and to fulfil the other purposes of the United Nations. The enlarged composition of the Council will also facilitate equitable geographical distribution among the different regions of the world. Frightening events, such as those in Rwanda, make it more necessary than ever to continue the strengthening of the indispensable machinery for action required to execute the increasingly broad and complex mandates given by the Security Council to peace-keeping operations. First of all, we must further improve the management and control mechanisms here in New York. The Secretariat has already made a major effort to strengthen the Department of Peace-keeping Operations by adding a Situation Centre, enlarging the Office of the Military Adviser and giving a boost to the planning unit. Secondly, in order to speed up the effective launching of operations, the provisions relating to standby arrangements for peace-keeping should come into effect. Spain is prepared to participate in this mechanism, which should be broadened to include the police components of peace operations, as well as transport-related equipment and logistics in general. Thirdly, it is important to face the issues relating to the safety of the personnel of the peace-keeping operations. Many casualties have been suffered by United Nations forces and humanitarian-assistance personnel, among them Spanish nationals who gave their lives in the quest for peace. The setting up of an Ad Hoc Committee on the safety and security of United Nations and associated personnel, in particular those involved in peace-keeping operations, has been a step in the right direction, and we hope that the draft international convention on this matter will be adopted. Notwithstanding the continuous efforts of the international community and of many of the political forces in the area, peace has not yet arrived in the Balkans. It is true that developments have occurred that give us cause for hope. We have witnessed a new international cohesiveness, which we must preserve at all costs. A rapprochement has taken place between the Croat and Muslim communities, which has led to the agreements reached on federation. I am pleased to underscore the important role that the European Union is playing in the town of Mostar as a contribution to this process. Spain is actively participating in this effort; this is the area in which the Spanish contingent in the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) is carrying out its mission. We welcome the establishment of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia. We trust that the experience gained by this ad hoc tribunal will serve as an incentive to the General Assembly to give favourable consideration to the proposed statute of an international criminal court, a permanent body with universal jurisdiction, which was drafted by the International Law Commission, and that this idea - which is not new - will come to fruition very soon. Spain welcomes the process of political and economic transition in which the countries of Central and Eastern Europe are currently involved. Their future accession to the European Union and their progressive integration in the security mechanisms of the continent will contribute to the stability of Europe. We are also witnessing important moves towards democracy and a free-market economy in the Russian Federation and in the other States that emerged from the former Soviet Union. Spain supports these changes, as their success will contribute not only to strengthening security in Europe but to world peace as well. The community of Ibero-American nations has endowed itself with a political forum of considerable importance; this year, in Cartagena, Colombia, it once again voiced satisfaction at the progress made on the path to democracy and economic modernization. Wherever internal armed conflicts are still active, as in Guatemala, we are witnessing a negotiation process promoted by and under the auspices of the United Nations, with the assistance of the 'Group of Friends'. Both the Government of Guatemala and the Unidad revolucionaria nacional Guatemalteca (URNG) are fully engaged in this process, with the ultimate goal of achieving national reconciliation and full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The delicate situation in Cuba calls for an additional effort to promote dialogue and cooperation to make possible the final incorporation of both the Government and the people of Cuba into the democratic current that is 14 flowing through the continent at the present time. Dialogue is essential. Inventive solutions among Cubans, without excluding anyone, should be encouraged, with a view to opening up new democratic possibilities leading to a peaceful transition, with due respect for human rights, national sovereignty and fundamental freedoms. The Government of Spain, which remains opposed to the embargo that has been imposed, notes with satisfaction the talks taking place between Washington and Havana, where these issues can be addressed. The Government of Spain is attentively following the situation in Haiti, with a view to the full implementation of Security Council resolutions 917 (1994) and 940 (1994), which will involve the return of the President legitimately elected by the Haitian people. The international community will have to concentrate its efforts on the reconstruction of the country, so that democracy may rest on solid foundations guaranteeing constitutional rule of law and respect for human rights. Spain attaches particular importance to the establishment of a new process of dialogue and cooperation in the Mediterranean that will make it possible to tackle the economic, demographic and cultural differences existing in the region, and to bring peace and prosperity to the Mediterranean area. My country has special ties of friendship and cooperation with the Maghreb countries and is striving to make a practical contribution to overcoming the problems existing in this area, to which Spain attaches great priority. The Spanish Government considers that the solution to the problem of the Western Sahara lies in the holding of a referendum on self-determination with all appropriate international guarantees. My Government again expresses its support for the Secretary-General and his Special Representative in their efforts to ensure progress in implementing the settlement plan accepted by the parties and, in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions, creating the necessary conditions for the forthcoming holding of the referendum to which I have referred. The Spanish Government has expressed on many occasions, its profound satisfaction at the progress achieved in the Middle East peace process, which started at the Madrid Conference. Thanks to the determination and courage of the interested parties, 1994 has been a year of significant achievements on the path to peace and understanding. Spain has always supported the need for a lasting and comprehensive peace, in conformity with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). Spain urges the parties and all the States in the region, on the basis of their clear and unanimous rejection of violence and the use of force, to coordinate all efforts necessary to attain the desired goals of peace and development. This year, we have witnessed events of remarkable importance in sub-Saharan Africa. Some have struck a markedly hopeful note, whereas others - such as the tragedy of Rwanda and the difficulties in the peace process in Somalia - have demonstrated the fragility of the continent’s structures. Rwanda has appalled us. We have witnessed the horrors of civil war with a feeling of bitterness and even of impotence. Despite the efforts of the international community, in which my country is actively participating, no solution is yet in sight to this crisis or to the problem posed by the millions of displaced people and refugees - a problem which, moreover, is having serious repercussions on the stability of the neighbouring countries. Those responsible for the atrocities, including genocide, committed in Rwanda must be brought to justice individually. Hence, Spain supports the work of the Commission of Experts established under Security Council resolution 935 (1994), which we actively promoted and co-sponsored, as well as the work of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Special Rapporteur for Rwanda. These events are extremely serious and we must make an urgent legal response to them through the establishment of an ad hoc jurisdiction for Rwanda, following the model already provided by the Tribunal established to deal with the former Yugoslavia. South Africa has been the other side of the coin. We are gratified at its return to the General Assembly as a full-fledged Member of the United Nations, now that the apartheid system has been abolished and a democratic and non-racial Government has been installed. In southern Africa, likewise, we are following with the greatest interest, because of their importance, the processes aimed at peace in Angola and Mozambique. We hope that the Angolan Government and UNITA will shortly conclude a lasting peace agreement that will put an end to decades of suffering. We hope that in Mozambique the coming elections will consolidate national reconciliation. Spain will contribute to the 15 peaceful and democratic holding of these elections by sending observers. The decolonization of Gibraltar is a priority goal of the Spanish Government. The General Assembly has clearly established the doctrine that the decolonization of Gibraltar is a case not of self-determination but of the restoration of Spain’s territorial integrity. I wish here to reiterate the Spanish Government’s firm resolve to continue the process of negotiation with the Government of the United Kingdom, in a constructive spirit and on the bases of the Declaration of Brussels of 27 November 1984, taking duly into account the legitimate interests of the population. The Government of Spain expresses its profound hope that these negotiations will put an end to this colonial anachronism. Disarmament and arms control are fundamental factors in the maintenance of international peace and security. Accordingly, during this year Spain has adopted a unilateral moratorium on the export of anti-personnel land-mines, has ratified the 1980 Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects and was among the first States to ratify the chemical weapons Convention. We also support the unconditional and indefinite extension of the non- proliferation Treaty and the early conclusion of a nuclear test-ban treaty. Moreover, Spain hopes that a final decision on the enlargement of the membership of the Conference on Disarmament will be adopted shortly, thereby allowing for the full participation of countries which, like Spain, have demonstrated for many years their full commitment to the work of the Conference. The close relationship between peace and development is especially well reflected in the report on agenda for development submitted last May by the Secretary-General. I wish to state my satisfaction at the publication of this report. We share the approach presented by the Secretary-General, which is based on the principle that development is a fundamental right and the strongest foundation for peace. We welcome the idea of defining the five principal dimensions of development that are set forth in the agenda - that is, peace as the basic foundation, the economy as the engine of progress, the environment as a basis for sustainability, justice as a pillar of society, and democracy as a guarantor of good governance. We must now determine what actions are required in order to implement the agenda and formulate specific recommendations on the assumption that development cannot be reduced to a simple economic dimension, but must, rather, be considered from its political, cultural, environmental, social and humanitarian angles. Only by means of this comprehensive approach will we be able to tackle the deep inequalities and serious problems affecting developing countries. Furthermore, the financial resources devoted to this end should be used in a more rational and efficient way. To achieve this, we must continue to restructure the economic and social sectors of the Organization and of the United Nations system, particularly by strengthening even further the coordinating role of the Economic and Social Council. In activities to promote development the protection of the environment should always be taken into account. Starting next year, Spain will participate in the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development, which at its last session dealt for the first time with the implementation of 'Agenda 21' and of other agreements reached at the Rio Summit. The global conferences convened by the United Nations play an outstanding role in the search for universal consensus on development. The Programme of Action adopted in Cairo by the International Conference on Population and Development will pave the way for a new demographic policy, and places women at the axis of every population policy. The key role played by women in development will also be highlighted during the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing in September 1995. The World Summit for Social Development, which will be convened in Copenhagen in March 1995, must, likewise, direct us to a new way of facing social problems in the world, based on the principle that human beings should be the core and ultimate goal of development. Nobody can doubt the importance of the protection, promotion and defence of human rights as fundamental tasks of both Member States and the United Nations. Intolerance, inequalities of all kinds and violations of fundamental rights still endanger the lives, the freedom and the safety of millions of human beings. In order to eradicate these evils, we must honour the commitments undertaken during the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights and redouble our efforts to put into 16 practice principles that, although universally acknowledged, are not universally observed. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the office which was created by this Assembly last year, and whose first incumbent is Ambassador Ayala Lasso, must be able to perform his duties properly. To this end, it is essential to ensure that he has the adequate budgetary means and sufficient personnel, as well as the support and cooperation of all Member States. Such personnel and additional means should also be made available to the Centre for Human Rights. In 1995 we shall commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. This will be an opportunity to reflect both on the Organization’s accomplishments - which are not negligible - and on the challenges it will face. We live in an increasingly complex and dynamic international society, in which it is no longer possible totally to separate national issues from international ones, nor to divide the tasks of the Organization into watertight compartments. Mankind’s full development will be achieved only when its multiple aspects, which are complementary and interdependent, are taken into account. The path to a better world, in which the United Nations continues to play a fundamental role, must be taken together by all the peoples of the world, as we are reminded by the motto of the fiftieth-anniversary commemoration. That is also the firm conviction of the Government and the people of Spain. It is a great honour for me to address the General Assembly for the first time on behalf of the Republic of Mali. The Malian delegation welcomes the fact that this year’s session of the General Assembly is being held under the skilful presidency of Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire. As well as being a personal tribute, his election honours not only Côte d’Ivoire, which is Mali’s friend and neighbour, but Africa as a whole. It also attests to the confidence of all delegations in him. They are confident that he will lead our work effectively and wisely. He can rely on the full cooperation of the Malian delegation. We convey to him our warmest congratulations and every good wish for success. I wish also to pay tribute to Mr. Essy’s predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, for the devotion and skill that he brought to his work as President of the General Assembly at its last session. I also take pleasure in greeting the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and in commending him for his tireless efforts to strengthen the role of the United Nations. In the period since the last session of the General Assembly there have been encouraging developments in the cause of peace. The advent of a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa is part of this pattern. That event, which puts an end to three centuries of domination, marks the completion of Africa’s liberation. But, in addition, by enabling majority rule to prevail, it brings South Africa into harmony with mankind’s essential values. For both these reasons we must welcome the fact that joint efforts, in Africa and around the world, were a powerful catalyst in the eradication of the policy of apartheid. I pay tribute to the determination of the South African people and to the courage of two men, President Mandela and Vice- President de Klerk, each of whom understood the trend of history and opted for the course of reason and the path of dialogue. At the same time, I wish to take the opportunity provided by the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly to pay tribute to the Palestinian people and the Palestine Liberation Organization, under the leadership of Chairman Yasser Arafat. The Malian Government welcomes the conclusion and the signing by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization of the Peace Agreement on the autonomy of Jericho and Gaza, which constitutes a significant step forward towards settling the Palestinian question. My delegation will continue to support the peace process in the interests of the Palestinian and Israeli peoples, because it provides a unique framework within which to bring lasting peace, stability and security to the whole region. While developments in South Africa and in the Middle East amount to significant progress towards peace, certain remaining conflicts are a continuing source of grave concern for the international community. Any conflict capable of destabilizing any region of the world is a threat to the peace and stability of the whole international community. To increase the chances of resolving conflicts that have worldwide repercussions the United Nations should resolutely support regional and subregional initiatives, such as the establishment by the Organization of African Unity of a central body for the prevention, management 24 and settlement of conflicts. But such initiatives need to be backed up with genuine and forthright involvement by States in the same subregion, as well as by consistent support from the international community, if lasting peace is to be brought to the areas concerned. Is it not also time to collectively address one of the factors underlying the development of armed conflicts in some regions of the world? I am thinking of the massive uncontrolled circulation of small arms in third world countries in general, and of Africa in particular. We are all aware that very few of these countries manufacture arms. So where do they come from? How are they channelled? What can we do about them? In the view of my delegation, the answer to these pressing questions would make it possible to find ways and means to ensure that our peoples enjoy a safe and stable environment that will favour development activities. Returning now to existing conflicts, we believe that in Rwanda everything must be done to promote dialogue in order to preserve peace in that country and in the region. In this respect, my country, Mali, has been actively involved in the quest for a solution to the Rwandan tragedy and is participating in the implementation of the Arusha peace agreements through its contingent earmarked to reinforce the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda. The international community and the United Nations must continue their efforts to provide relief to the displaced populations and organize their return while stepping up economic, financial, material and technical assistance in order to foster Rwanda’s reconstruction and economic rehabilitation. Similarly, there is a need for stepped-up cooperation between the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, the League of Arab Nations, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Non-Aligned Movement in order to find a settlement to the Somali crisis in humanitarian, political and security terms. This endeavour should be accompanied by the launching of a massive and effective programme of rehabilitation, relief and reconstruction in Somalia. Hence the presence of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II) should be maintained and strengthened. In Mozambique, national reconciliation is under way. My delegation wishes to hail the initiatives taken by the United Nations through its observer mission and calls for full compliance with the electoral timetable. In Angola, we welcome the continuation of the peace talks and call on all parties to fulfil their respective commitments in order to bring peace quickly back to that country. With respect to the Western Sahara, recent developments make it incumbent upon this Organization to further pursue its efforts to bring about the holding of the referendum, in conformity with the pertinent resolutions on this issue. In Liberia, where my country is actively involved in the search for a solution, all initiatives designed to bring lasting peace must be supported, in particular those of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). We call on the parties to the conflict, the signatories of the various agreements, to respect their commitments with a view to promoting the further mobilization of the human and financial resources the country needs. Everything should also be done to make the experiment under way in the Military Observer Group of ECOWAS a model for the settlement of other regional conflicts. Our abiding conviction that peace is possible everywhere should bolster our determination to bring about a settlement to other persistent conflicts. Thus, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mali supports all initiations permitting the speedy adoption and implementation of measures that will break down the stubbornness of the Serb party. My country, like other countries of the international community, remains profoundly perturbed by the armed aggression and policy of “ethnic cleansing” being directed against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its people. We must do our utmost to ensure that the relevant Security Council resolutions are fully respected. It is with this same goal of reducing the number of regional conflicts that we should approach activities to bring a return to democracy in Haiti and to restore peace in Afghanistan. Another source of grave concern for the international community lies in the persistence of major economic and financial problems. 25 Indeed, one of the major challenges facing our Organization today is development. The development strategies and programmes that have been pursued thus far have not yielded the desired results, in particular in the case of Africa. “An Agenda for Development”, proposed by the Secretary-General, does provide a useful opportunity to diagnose the existing situation, in particular in Africa, and should permit us to propose appropriate measures to lay the foundations for lasting development for the benefit of all the peoples and nations of the world. The Agenda represents the last hope for millions of people living in poverty and destitution, for millions of children dying every year of endemic diseases, and for the millions of refugees around the world. That is why my delegation welcomes the upcoming World Summit for Social Development, scheduled for March 1995 in Copenhagen. Similarly, the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing in 1995, should make an important contribution to the elaboration of “An Agenda for Development”. This Conference will permit our countries to better manage the tremendous human resource represented by women by translating policies and measures in favour of women into concrete programmes. More social justice for women can only enhance society as a whole. In the same vein, my delegation welcomes the ongoing reforms in various bodies of the United Nations, notably those responsible for economic and social development. The question of world trade and commodities is among those to have received the greatest attention in recent years. In this context, the agreement creating the World Trade Organization was signed in Marrakesh, Morocco, on 15 April 1994. In the implementation of that agreement, particular attention must be given to the following issues: the specific conditions of the developing countries, in particular the least developed countries, which must continue to receive preferential treatment in the implementation of the new mechanisms designed to govern world trade; the transfer of technology in keeping with the aspirations of the countries of the South; regional economic integration; immigration policies; professional training; and job creation. Resolute political commitment on the part of the whole of the international community is thus vital if the Organization is to play the key role in the area of development and international cooperation entrusted to it by the United Nations Charter and the pertinent General Assembly resolutions. We welcome the fact that on 18 June 1994, the International Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, was adopted. Mali, a country that has been hard hit by the cumulative effects of drought and desertification, is hoping for the early ratification and implementation of this Convention. Strengthening the role of the United Nations is becoming more and more of a necessity, for as it approaches its fiftieth anniversary, our Organization must face many challenges, whether in the maintenance of international peace and security or in the fields of economic and social development or respect for human rights. Let us equip this Organization with the means to accomplish these tasks. While the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary provides a useful opportunity to assess the work accomplished thus far, it is also a reminder of the limits that reality has imposed on the implementation of the Charter. In this respect, it is not simply the problem of the Organization’s financial situation that arises, but also its Members’ ability to agree on its priorities and its tasks that is being questioned. We can only rejoice when we see that our collective awareness of the disorder and shortcomings of the past has, for the first time, become the promise of a readiness to engage in serious thought, as attested to by the development of “An Agenda for Peace” and the draft of “An Agenda for Development”, which can become effective instruments to enable our Organization to provide a better future for present and future generations. I should like to take this opportunity to inform the international community of the democratic developments that have taken place in Mali since 1991. In political terms, democracy is daily being further consolidated and expanded. After free and democratic elections in 1992 we set up the institutions provided for by our Basic Law. My Government today is striving to educate the whole of Malian society in democracy. 26 Evidence of this is the recent regional consultation meetings which permitted the whole population in their respective regions to voice their views on the major concerns facing the Malian nation. That exercise has also permitted the Government, among other things, to gauge the impact of its measures on the population. In economic terms, I wish to draw attention to the important achievements in the context of the policy of economic recovery and reform of public finance. The Government’s new economic policy also stresses the promotion of the private sector. The challenges that face us are daunting and hence our achievements still need to be consolidated; but that will be possible with the support of the international community. The success of the recent round-table conference on the development of Mali, held in Geneva on 13 and 14 September 1994, attests to the confidence of Mali’s partners in development in the measures that have been taken. These qualitative changes in Mali have also been observed in several developing countries. They reflect the fundamental aspiration of peoples to freedom, justice and development with solidarity. These positive developments, if they are to be consolidated, require a series of complementary measures at the international level. In this regard it is important to ensure equal participation by all States in the development of new norms designed to place the international system on a more solid foundation while at the same time providing better security for all. It is my hope that the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization will provide a useful opportunity to reflect in depth on these issues. I should like to extend to you, Sir, my warmest felicitations on your well-deserved election to the high office of the presidency of the General Assembly. This is not only a mere recognition of your long experience and your outstanding ability and diplomatic skill but also a reflection of the esteem in which your country, Côte d’Ivoire, is held in the United Nations. I should also like to express our great appreciation and admiration for the work of the Secretary-General and for the determined and prudent leadership which he has demonstrated on vital international issues. Despite important positive developments on a great number of issues occupying the attention and energy of our Organization, a significant number of old problems remain unresolved. Ethnic conflicts, nationalistic chauvinism, ethnic cleansing, xenophobia, racial discrimination, expansionist opportunism, social and economic disparities, underdevelopment, the waste of scarce resources on fraternal enmities, the lack of necessary commitment for the protection of the environment and gross and massive violations of human rights are only some of the evils still afflicting humanity today. Among our priorities therefore should be the unequivocal reversal of the results of aggression and foreign occupation, support and defence of democracy, the inversion of social and economic inequalities, the protection of our environment and, finally, the protection and enhancement of human rights for all. In order to accomplish such goals on a universal scale our Organization has to adapt, expeditiously and effectively, to the changing conditions and to the new challenges. Better coordination between the various bodies that form the United Nations system is urgently required. The Secretary-General’s recent decision to boost the coordinating role of the United Nations Development Programme on all developmental issues is a commendable step in the right direction. We are constantly witnessing world calamities. Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia are dire and gory examples. Our common goal should be to strengthen the United Nations in order best to respond to today’s challenges and the increased expectations of mankind for security, economic viability and democracy. These expectations can only be met by making the United Nations more effective through the implementation of its own resolutions and the mandatory provisions of the Charter. The General Assembly, the most prominent global democratic forum, represents the full membership of the United Nations. It functions on the principle of sovereign equality. As such, it has played a major role towards the realization of the objectives of the world community and must continue to do so in accordance with its mandate under the Charter. Given today’s political realities, however, the Security Council has a substantially enlarged agenda and a more dynamic role to perform. In accordance with the Charter, that organ has the ability to decide and to act. Nowadays it is able to act more effectively in the maintenance of international peace and security. In today’s post-cold-war era the Security Council is in a position to play a broader and much more important role than ever before. In a world where new challenges require urgent solutions, such a development is welcome. Within the context of the reinforced and expanded role, a successful outcome of the deliberations on the review of the Council’s membership to reflect the realities of today’s world is highly appreciated. However, the effectiveness of the most powerful organ of the United Nations is seriously compromised if it applies double standards. It must act in every case with determination and consistency. The record of its performance indicates clearly that in those cases where the international community has shown steadfastness to defend the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter and fully to implement its provisions, peace and justice was achieved. On the contrary, in those cases where unity of purpose had not been exhibited or the interests of nations or alliances had been placed above the universal principles and the rule of law, the problems remain and peace is elusive. The financial difficulties confronting the Organization pose severe constraints on its ever-increasing role in today’s world affairs. Every effort should be made to provide the Organization with the necessary means to perform its vital mission effectively. In this regard I would recall that my Government decided early this year, after an appeal by the Secretary-General, to double on a voluntary basis its assessed contribution to all peace-keeping operations. Our commitment to the peaceful settlement of disputes was thus manifested once again in a concrete and practical way. We hope that our gesture will soon be emulated by others. Our Organization desperately needs generosity by its Member States if it is to continue performing its herculean mission effectively. It is widely acknowledged that economics plays an important role in today’s world politics. Development, the protection of the environment, poverty alleviation, social progress, the improvement of health standards, proper education and sound technology require financial means for their attainment. In this exercise the United Nations, through the Secretariat itself, the recently enhanced United Nations Development Programme and the various specialized agencies, performs one of the most important missions, that of pursuing the betterment and the economic well-being of peoples throughout the world. These activities are also amply outlined in the Secretary- General’s report, and therefore I do not intend to dwell on them other than to declare that we are cognizant of their importance and that they have our full support. We commend the Secretary-General’s integrated approach to development issues in 'An Agenda for Development', which complements his ground-breaking 'An Agenda for Peace'. We fully subscribe to the Secretary-General’s assertion that development is a fundamental human right and that development is the most secure basis for peace. In accordance with the deliberations on the subject, a successful implementation of the agenda for development depends on the priority to be given the following elements: the alleviation of poverty and its underlying causes, especially in Africa and other least- developed regions; health and the status of women. There is an urgent need for clear and effective population policies. In this regard, the recently concluded Cairo Conference on Population and Development rightly placed great emphasis on development and the environment. The new characteristic of the Conference’s Programme of Action is precisely this linkage with sustainable development and protection of the environment. It constitutes progress by integrating control of population, environmental protection and economic growth into the approach to population issues. 2 The Rio Conference was a historic turning point in this direction. Yet the follow-up and implementation of the decisions taken at the Earth Summit remain contingent on the political will to save our living space’s web of life. The Barbados Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, as the first test of the international community’s attachment to the Rio commitments, focused on the acute problems that small island developing States are confronted with. Cyprus, an active member of this group, reiterates its commitment to the early and prompt implementation of the Barbados commitments, and expresses the hope that every member of the international community will conscientiously fulfil its relevant obligations. We also welcome the recent broader agreement on seabed issues of the Convention on the Law of the Sea promoting universal application of the new legal order governing the seas and thus opening a new chapter in international relations. In the light of our philosophy and experience, we attach much importance to the effective functioning of the principal judicial organ of the United Nations - the International Court of Justice. The increase in its jurisdiction in contentious cases is encouraging. We also attach great significance to the possibility of clarifying legal points in political disputes through advisory opinions. The International Court of Justice is indeed an integral part of the United Nations peacemaking efforts and we wholeheartedly support the Secretary-General’s proposal that he be authorized to seek advisory opinions from the Court as an important component of the peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with the United Nations Charter. The Secretariat’s role in an improved, rationalized and more effective United Nations is irrefutable. We have nothing but praise for the many men and women in the international civil service whose competence and dedication under harsh circumstances enable the Organization to respond to the ever-increasing demands in today’s global environment. The Secretary-General has already done much in the direction of rationalizing and streamlining the Secretariat. He certainly has our support in the additional measures needed to carry out this task. We join in recognizing the imperative need for adequate financial resources for the Organization, and for assessed contributions to be paid in full and promptly by Member States. It should be recognized that true respect for human rights provides the foundation for the structure and organization of any society. Past and recent experience in every region of the world has demonstrated that the protection and promotion of human rights is an indispensable ingredient of a stable, just and democratic world order. Over the years, the United Nations has played a leading role in affirming human equality, which in essence forms the core of all rights, and in eliminating separations based on ethnicity, religion, culture, socio- economic disparities and political philosophies. If we recognize the value of the axiom that in States governed by the rule of law the rights of citizens must be protected unconditionally, then we should also accept the analogy: that the same rights should be safeguarded for every single citizen of a global State governed by the rule of law. All the efforts of today’s global community should therefore be exerted towards the implementation of the basic idea inherent in the international law of human rights - namely, that all the social mechanisms should exist to enhance the dignity of human beings, not to exploit them. Human rights are a powerful means to this end. In order to achieve full respect for human rights and to eliminate human suffering, the world community must clearly oppose extreme nationalism, take unequivocal stands against policies of 'ethnic cleansing' and continue exerting steadfast efforts until we achieve the concrete dismantling of unjust and inhumane social systems that are based on ethnic segregation. The effective promotion of human rights is naturally entwined with the global trend towards democratization. Cyprus is in the vanguard of States that have become party to international instruments for the protection of human rights, both at the global level, within the United Nations and at the regional level, primarily through the Council of Europe. We have had occasion in the past to express our support for the Secretary-General’s constructive and timely suggestions for improving the potential of United Nations peace-keeping. We are encouraged that much progress has been made in this field. In view, however, of the ever-increasing demands and the worsening financial problems associated with peace-keeping, we should continue to do our best to assist in discharging, as effectively as possible, this major responsibility of the 3 Organization. In this regard, may I recall that Cyprus, itself a victim of foreign aggression, invasion and occupation, has voluntarily undertaken the onus of paying on a yearly basis one-third of the total cost of the United Nations Peace- keeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP), which for the current 12-month period amounts to $18 million. Similarly, the Greek Government generously offered a voluntary contribution to UNFICYP of $6.5 million for the same period. Since the Republic of Cyprus has itself been one of the longest beneficiaries of peace-keeping operations, I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to express the appreciation of my country and its people to the Organization and its peace-keeping function. I also take this opportunity to express to the troop-contributing countries our gratitude for sustaining UNFICYP for so many years until the anomaly in the financing of the Force was finally overcome in June 1993. On this occasion, I should like to express the hope that a sound and fair solution to the question of reimbursement to troop- contributing countries will be found during the deliberations at this session. My country stands ready to offer every possible assistance towards the attainment of this aim. I shall refrain from addressing the long list of international problems described in this year’s report by the Secretary-General (A/49/1) with which the Organization is actively dealing and which extend to all five continents. Each issue presents its own complications and special characteristics. Together, all the issues provide a measure of the enormity of what is expected of the United Nations, the awesome burden of responsibilities of the Secretary- General and the respect and admiration he deserves in carrying out these tasks. As he has rightly pointed out in the past: 'The United Nations, by undertaking a range of problems as wide as the globe itself, must be expected to achieve successes but also to experience failures.' (A/48/1, para. 512) Our world has witnessed in the last few years the creation of new areas of tension and conflict through the unleashing of the destructive and centrifugal forces of chauvinism and ethnic strife. There have also been at the same time some notable successes through the resolution of several regional issues and the withdrawal of foreign forces following the end of our bipolar antagonistic world. We have witnessed in many parts of the world the triumph of reason, the entrenchment of democracy and the emergence of free market economies. The achievement of putting an end to the odious practice of apartheid in South Africa broadens the vistas of human wisdom; the historic Agreements between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) on the one hand, and between Israel and other neighbouring Arab countries on the other mark a new era in the Middle East. We express the hope that the rest of the countries involved in this conflict will very soon be able to join the others, thereby signifying one of the major turning points in the history of the region. Cyprus, an immediate neighbour, expresses the hope that such a catalytic positive evolution in our region will not leave our own problem unaffected. Cyprus, almost a decade after the Cold War began to subside, remains divided as a result of foreign aggression and military occupation, and its people forcibly separated. As a result of ethnic cleansing by the aggressor, Cypriots are victims of gross violations of human rights. A large component of the Cyprus question in its present dimensions is the massive violation of the human rights of the displaced persons who have been evicted by force from their homes by the Turkish forces of occupation and whose properties have been usurped by illegal settlers imported from Turkey to Cyprus in a systematic and well-planned policy made by the aggressor to change the demographic composition of the occupied parts of Cyprus. In the same vein, the humanitarian issue of the enclave is another staggering dimension of the Cyprus question. The missing persons still remain unaccounted for 20 years after the Turkish invasion and occupation of one third of the territory of the Republic of Cyprus. This constitutes a severe violation of the human rights both of the missing persons themselves and of the tragic figures of their relatives. I put it before the Assembly today that Cyprus is a test case for the resolve of the international community and of this Organization to demand and to enforce respect for its will as expressed in a plethora of resolutions. Twenty years after the Turkish invasion of 1974, the problem remains unresolved. The number of Turkish forces, despite resolutions of this Assembly calling for the withdrawal of foreign forces from Cyprus, has in fact increased, as is stated in the Secretary-General’s report of 30 May 1994. The presence of Turkish occupation troops constitutes a serious threat to the people of Cyprus, and has naturally given rise to a kind of arms race. The General Assembly and the Security Council have repeatedly reaffirmed the legal framework within which a just and lasting solution should be sought. In its 4 most recent resolution, resolution 939 (1994) of 29 July 1994, this basis is reaffirmed to be '... a State of Cyprus with a single sovereignty and independence and international personality and a single citizenship, with its independence and territorial integrity safeguarded, and comprising two politically equal communities as described in the relevant Security Council resolutions, in a bi-communal and bi- zonal federation, and that such a settlement must exclude union in whole or in part with any other country or any form of partition or secession' (para. 2). The Greek Cypriot side has for years accepted that a bi-zonal bi-communal federation was the basis for the settlement of the Cyprus problem. The Turkish Cypriot leadership, fully supported by Turkey, has now made it clear that they have abandoned federation as the basis of the solution and are promoting a loose confederation with separate sovereignty for its two component parts. The Secretary-General rightly and clearly attributed the failure to make progress as follows: 'For the present, the Security Council finds itself faced with an already familiar scenario: the absence of agreement due essentially to a lack of political will on the Turkish Cypriot side.' (S/1994/629, para. 53) In the same report to the Security Council, the Secretary-General states the following: '... a good offices mission, which by its nature is dependent on the consent and cooperation of the parties, is not an adequate method to deal with a situation in which, for the past several years, one side has consistently flouted the wishes of the international community, as represented in the Security Council.' (ibid., para. 58) My view is that if this flouting and violation of Security Council resolutions is allowed to continue, there will be no solution of the Cyprus problem. It is therefore necessary for coercive action to be taken against the side that flouts the United Nations resolutions. There is also a further issue that requires to be urgently addressed. This is the problem of the military build-up which is taking place in Cyprus. The anxieties created by the presence of foreign troops on Cypriot territory have given rise to a significant military build-up. Security is an extremely significant area, and is an issue of substance as well as a way to improve confidence. I have therefore proposed the following. Firstly, the leaders of the two communities during the intercommunal talks should make a solemn declaration to the Secretary-General on behalf of their respective communities renouncing the use of force against each other and undertaking to take all the necessary measures to prevent attack by members of one community against the other. Secondly, the Government of the Republic should take the following measures: repeal the National Guard Law, disband the National Guard and hand over all its arms and military equipment to the custody of the United Nations peace-keeping force; undertake to maintain the police force of the Republic at its present numerical strength, armed only with light weapons; undertake the total cost of a substantially numerically increased United Nations peace-keeping force; agree that the United Nations peace-keeping force will have the right of inspection to ascertain compliance with the above; agree that the National Guard armoured cars, armoured personnel vehicles and tanks, which will be handed over to the custody of the United Nations peace-keeping force, can be used by the United Nations peace-keeping force to patrol the buffer zone and to prevent intrusions in it; and deposit in United Nations accounts all money saved from disbanding the National Guard and from stopping the purchase of arms after deducting the cost of the United Nations peace-keeping force, to be used after the solution of the problem for the benefit of both communities. The Turkish Government, parallel to the above, should withdraw the Turkish occupation forces from Cyprus, as well as the illegal settlers, whose presence in Cyprus, apart from violating United Nations resolutions calling on both sides to respect the demographic composition of Cyprus, constitutes a military threat. The Turkish Cypriots under arms should disband and hand over their weapons to the peace-keeping force. The Turkish side complains that it has been isolated internationally. The responsibility for this does not fall on the Republic of Cyprus or on the international community. It falls squarely on the shoulders of the Turkish leadership, which, by an act of purported secession, declared a separate State. The international community and the Republic of Cyprus simply respected Security Council resolutions 541 (1983) and 550 (1984), 5 which deplored the purported secession, asked all States Members of the United Nations not to recognize it and called upon the Turkish leadership to recall the act of secession. All States respected these resolutions except Turkey. A small country has been violated by an aggressor, in contravention of the Charter of this Organization, which denounces the use of force. Twenty years have passed, and the Security Council’s many resolutions remain unimplemented. Unless the aggressor is faced with progressively more severe consequences for its disregard of international legal order, a very bad example and precedent will be allowed to cast doubt on the international community’s resolve and effectiveness. With the advent of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we are bound to review our past performance and chart new avenues for the future. Did we meet the goals set in 1945 by our founding fathers in the aftermath of two devastating wars? Did we create the prerequisite for a just and peaceful world? Did we save succeeding generations from the scourge of war? As we near the milestone of the Organization’s fiftieth anniversary, let us do some soul-searching, let us not be complacent and let us no longer be guilty of errors of omission and commission. Above all, let us not remain inactive because of inertia. People and nations all over the world have ever- greater expectations of the Organization and the way in which it responds to the new challenges of our times. The Charter, by and large, has stood the test of time, but it is our responsibility to make the United Nations a more effective Organization. It is the world’s last chance for peace. More than anyone else, Sir, you are aware of what excellent and solid relations of cooperation, friendship and fraternity have existed for many years now between your country, Côte d’Ivoire, and Togo. It is thus with great joy and enormous pride that my country welcomes your unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. 5 General Assembly 22nd meeting I therefore wish, on behalf of the Government of Togo, in the name of my delegation, and in my own capacity, to congratulate you most sincerely on this tribute to you and to your fraternal country, Côte d’Ivoire. The Togolese delegation and I myself assure you of our support. We are convinced that your competence and your long experience in international affairs augur well for the success of our work. I should like to take this occasion to congratulate your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, the Permanent Representative of Guyana, who, with effectiveness and tact, guided the proceedings of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. We extend our congratulations as well to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has dedicated himself to the noble ideals of this Organization to which we all belong. We reiterate to him the total support of the delegation of Togo. South Africa has returned from a long voyage. We have at last seen the death of apartheid. My country is proud to have contributed to reversing that odious system. Togo has always supported the legitimate aspirations of peoples oppressed the world over, but in particular the aspirations of the black majority of South Africa, whose fundamental rights, even the most elementary among them, were long trampled. It is therefore with great joy that my country, recognizing the courage, dedication and sacrifice of the South African nation, welcomes the return to the United Nations of that fraternal country, which is now free and committed to waging — together with all the States Members of this Organization — the necessary fight for democracy and for the total independence of other peoples. In 1995, our Organization will celebrate its fiftieth anniversary. A new era of hope lies ahead for our nations. Unfortunately that era of hope also contains concerns, disquiet at the increasing impoverishment of the poorest countries, concern too about a world constantly devastated by conflicts and difficulties of all types. The period of upheaval in which we live presents our Organization with a challenge — that of understanding all the major changes that are under way and of finding rapid solutions to the many problems confronting our planet. It is therefore urgent to redefine the broad guidelines of the Organization on the basis of greater humanism on the global level, so that man can again regain the strength to better exercise his freedom, to enjoy it fully, to respect the laws of nature, and to break away from egoism and hard-heartedness. We must also lay new foundations for cooperation to help the United Nations not only to eliminate the consequences of the cold war, but also to solve the problems of today and those of tomorrow. This is the only way to respond to the expectations of our peoples and to respect the spirit of those who, 50 years ago, created our world Organization, with the purpose, among other things, of preventing conflicts for the peace of nations and the well-being of peoples. The implementation of the relevant recommendations contained in the report of the Secretary-General, an Agenda for Peace, should, to this end, prompt us to focus our action, urgently, on preventive measures, to establish stable foundations for the harmonious development of society and to resolve its problems by developing flexible and appropriate mechanisms within the framework of the reforms now under way. There are clear grounds for optimism when we see that the adversaries of yesterday have become the allies of today, seeking together peaceful and mutually advantageous solutions to the international problems of the day. We therefore have all the more reason to have faith in the future of our Organization. Planning for the future rather than waiting to be overtaken by events should be the watchword of our nations. On the internal level, my country has undertaken to embark on the path of democracy based on a complete and responsible multiparty system in order to establish a State based on law and on respect for the individual. Following the adoption of a new constitution in September 1992, presidential and legislative elections were held in August 1993 and in February 1994 respectively, leading to the establishment on 25 May last of a Government of national union whose programme of action aims basically at building a new Togo, democratic and free, at shaping national unity, at reconciling the people with itself, at rallying this people around its nation, its values and its flag, in peace and regained harmony, and at rebuilding an economy damaged under the combined effects of a range of factors both national and international. Of course, all of this cannot be accomplished in just a few months; it takes time to overcome resentment, to reconcile the adversaries of the past, to establish the state 6 General Assembly 22nd meeting of law to which all aspire, to rebuild confidence and to lay the foundations of a solid and prosperous economy. In spite of the end of the cold war, we see disorder constantly blurring the geopolitical landscape. The situation now prevailing in Africa is hardly encouraging. The continent, marginalized, awakens only the minds of the most attentive observers, when, across mountains and valleys, they hear the cries of anguish and death. The cases of Rwanda, Angola, Liberia, Somalia and Mozambique suffice to illustrate this bitter fact. The defeat of the system of apartheid in South Africa and the tragic events in Rwanda illustrate the two extremes in the evolution of the African continent, characterized by the contrast between hope and despair, progress and destruction. While, at the present time, South Africa seems to represent hope, Rwanda, on the contrary, symbolizes the face of an Africa mutilated and ravaged. Togo appeals to the Government of Angola and to UNITA to show goodwill and the flexibility that is necessary if a speedy and comprehensive settlement of the question is to be achieved in the framework of the Lusaka talks. In Liberia, despite a number of agreements, the disarmament of the factions has not yet occurred, and the general elections that it was hoped would take place seem to be becoming a mirage. Let us hope that good faith will find its way into the hearts of the parties concerned so that this fraternal country may regain the advantages of reconciliation and find again the path of development. As for Somalia, Togo appeals to the international community not to grow weary and leave that country. We therefore invite the parties to the conflict to refrain from contributing to discouragement and to resume real dialogue aimed at the rapid establishment of reliable national institutions. In respect of Western Sahara, my delegation supports the Secretary-General’s report on the question and urges all the parties to cooperate fully with the United Nations to ensure that the referendum on self-determination, to be held in February 1995 for the purpose of deciding the future of the territory and its people, is organized effectively. The Togolese Government is gratified at the recent positive development in the socio-political situation in Burundi and invites the new leaders to do all in their power to secure the definitive restoration of peace in that country. Togo supports unreservedly the efforts of the Secretary-General and of the Security Council to bring peace to Mozambique. It invites the parties to commit themselves totally to accepting and respecting the results of the forthcoming general elections. Faced with this situation of armed conflict, tension and insecurity, Africa must shoulder its responsibilities. It is through its own efforts that the African continent will be able to overcome the difficulties it faces today. This is the sense of the proposal that General Gnassinmgbé Eyadema, President of the Republic of Togo, made to the Tunis Summit of the Organization of African Unity in June 1994, when he advocated the creation of an African peace force whose mission would be to ensure peace where it is threatened by acting as a buffer between the belligerents and making possible a negotiated solution to conflicts. The delegation of Togo is delighted that this idea aroused a great deal of interest on the part of certain large Powers that are prepared to provide logistical support for such a buffer force. The unprecedented positive development of the peace process in the Middle East, reflected over the past 12 months in the Israeli-Palestinian accord of September 1993 and in the historic Washington D.C. meeting of 25 July 1994 between His Majesty King Hussein of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel, opens up before us a horizon of hope. These encouraging developments are important steps in the direction of peace. They demonstrate clearly that disputes can be settled effectively only through peaceful means and that only resolute political will can help to build a peaceful society. In total agreement with the initiators of and the protagonists at these gatherings, my country asks the United Nations, all Governments of the region and especially the Israeli and Palestinian leaders to continue the negotiations with a view to the establishment of a global, definitive and lasting peace in that part of the world to enable all States concerned with the Arab-Israeli conflict to live henceforth within secure borders recognized by all, on the basis of mutual respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of States. 7 General Assembly 22nd meeting As regards the future of the Palestinian people, the transition period, which is just beginning, must be sustained, not only politically but also, and above all, through financial, economic and technical assistance from the international community. The United Nations will therefore have to assume its responsibilities fully until the Palestinian question is definitively and satisfactorily resolved in all its aspects. In the eastern part of Europe the situation is still constantly characterized by violence and by an explosion of nationalism. States have been dislocated, borders have been called into question, and dreams of annexation and of “ethnic cleansing” inspire and haunt both minds and hearts. Drawing lessons, as is imperative, from all these tragedies and conflicts, the United Nations must promote and encourage further the use by States of the principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes. Of course, the Organization has in recent years clearly demonstrated its usefulness, especially in the fields of humanitarian affairs and the maintenance of peace. But sometimes lack of will to act promptly paralyses its action. This paralysis reveals profound shortcomings in the system of collective security provided for in the Charter and is due, above all, to the refusal of many Member States to commit themselves to peace, despite the special responsibilities entrusted to them by the Charter. This being the case, it is clear that, as it makes decisions about the maintenance of international peace and security, the Security Council should be broadened and, thereby, adapted to the changes in the world of today. Togo believes that the United Nations is the most appropriate forum for the creation of a new international order and the maintenance of international peace and security, as well as for the peaceful settlement of disputes. That is why we support its actions. We demonstrated this, inter alia, in the framework of peace-keeping operations by sending military contingents and police officers to Rwanda, Western Sahara and Mozambique to serve under the flag of the United Nations. Profoundly committed to peace and to the principle of general and complete disarmament, Togo rejoices in the many positive developments that have taken place in this field over recent months. But we remain concerned at the constantly increasing proliferation of conventional weapons. The massive international transfers of such weapons dangerously compromise the success of effective general disarmament. It has become urgent to strengthen the role and the capacity for action of the United Nations regional centres for peace and disarmament, which are at present poorly structured and lack both the material and the human resources they need to function properly and produce the results the international community expects of them. The particularly alarming case of the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, of which my country is honoured to be the headquarters, is quite illustrative, and should be examined with care. For, paradoxically, while the African continent is prey to violent and constant civil wars, which endanger regional and international peace and security, the Centre, which the United Nations could well have used to contribute to the quest for appropriate solutions to these conflicts, is, either by design or by circumstance, left out and its existence is almost ignored. As regards the nuclear problem on the Korean peninsula, my delegation welcomes the agreement recently reached between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America. It also welcomes the readiness expressed by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to comply with the provisions of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Togo views this courageous position adopted by the North Korean party as edifying testimony of its determination to maintain peace in the region. The world economy continues to be characterized by trends toward stagnation and the growing disparity between North and South. As we prepare to enter the third millennium, the elimination of poverty should be one of the main objectives of our Organization. In this context, the World Summit for Social Development, which the Government of Denmark has offered to host in March 1995 in Copenhagen, assumes its full importance. Togo fervently hopes that Member States will demonstrate political will and, in a surge of collective responsibility, give this Summit the attention necessary to obtain concrete results and practical decisions whose implementation should lead to the true elimination of poverty, the creation of genuinely productive jobs and the complete integration of marginalized or excluded sectors of society. During the last 15 years, there have been many obstacles to growth in our countries, including the decline in foreign capital, the debt crisis, and the constant decline in public development assistance, whose level is clearly short of the target 0.7 per cent of gross national product 8 General Assembly 22nd meeting that was set and strongly recommended by the United Nations. All of this leads to widespread poverty, aggravated by structural adjustment programmes that have insupportable social effects. There has been constant regression in Africa’s share of world trade. The recent Marrakesh agreements that resulted from long and difficult international negotiations in the Uruguay Round, far from meeting the expectations of the developing countries in general and of Africa in particular, are likely to lead to new imbalances in international trade which may require more than a decade to redress. In this respect, my delegation views the Agenda for Development proposed to us by the Secretary-General as a timely initiative, offering as it does an opportunity to begin a process of constructive dialogue and political mobilization to create a true and just partnership that can engage in better consideration of development issues. Together with the Group of 77 and China, Togo strongly supports the idea that this Agenda should build an international consensus for the global liberalization of trade, on the one hand as an effective means for international cooperation for development, and on the other to give new impetus to the efforts made over the last decade to avoid protectionist policies. If the transition of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade into the World Trade Organization is to be smooth, there must be a mechanism that can compensate the developing countries affected by the new system. Along these lines, the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted by the General Assembly in 1991, and the implementation of the Paris Declaration and the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, adopted in 1990, should, in our opinion, be geared to an increase in the volume of official development assistance, the promotion of respect for commitments that have been undertaken for new and additional resources for international cooperation, and a greater lightening of the debt burden, or even its cancellation. It would be desirable to adopt policies that ensured an adequate flow of concessional financing to the developing countries, in particular to the least developed among them; stimulated other flows of capital, including direct investment; reversed the negative trend in financial flows, and created mechanisms and allocated resources related to development. It can never be overemphasized that sustainable development is a prerequisite to lasting peace. The right to development must be considered, henceforth, as a fundamental human right, and thus be given priority attention by the international community. Along these lines, my Government hopes that, in addition to the results of the International Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo from 5 to 13 September last, the work of the World Summit for Social Development, of the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing in September 1995, and of the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (HABITAT II), to be held in Istanbul from 3 to 14 June 1996, will help produce at the international level a spirit of shared responsibility and the necessary political will to mobilize the resources that are indispensable if our developing countries are to thrive. Agenda 21 and the Rio Declaration are an important bridge on the road to sustainable development and to the protection of the Earth from the dangers facing it. That is why, two years ago, all the participants in the Conference showed such enthusiasm and sincerity. Regrettably, the results of that historic summit have still not been reflected in concrete facts. No notable progress has yet been observed in the implementation of the recommendations contained, in particular, in the Programme of Action. It is high time that States and the international community did everything in their power, at the national, regional and international levels, to put into effect the commitments to sustainable development undertaken in Rio. The Togolese Government welcomes the entry into force of the Framework Convention on Climate Change and is particularly delighted at the conclusion of another legal instrument of global scope: the International Convention to Combat Desertification in Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa. The Convention was adopted by the intergovernmental negotiating Committee in Paris in June 1994. Togo was pleased to take part in the negotiating process and will soon take up the procedures for signature and ratification. We invite all States Members of the United Nations to do likewise in order that the Convention and related instruments may enter into force as soon as possible. 9 General Assembly 22nd meeting Considering the uncertain future of mankind and the numerous and formidable challenges confronting the human race, it is imperative that we become clearly aware of our moral obligations. As of this moment it is essential to identify and correct the weaknesses and failings of our Organization. The reforms under way are indispensable, but they must not become a means of conferring even greater influence than in the past on the large countries and richest Powers in the world. Our new awareness must also help define ways of establishing relations among nations in the future, and in dealing with our present-day concerns we must take into account the causes of the disparities in standards of living between North and South. There is no effect without a cause, and to deny the principle of causality amounts to deferring our problems and never solving them. Only an attitude based on action, justice and international solidarity can spare the world a conflict that would otherwise, sooner or later, be inevitable. Thus, tackling the deep-rooted causes of today’s problems means seeking together the solutions that will make it possible for men, women and children to live decently and in complete freedom, without fear of being crushed by unemployment, poverty and hunger. This would also make it possible to protect the dignity of the human person and to safeguard human security. Tomorrow we should have a world in which all nations and all citizens refuse to listen to the voice of their own personal interests when they run counter to the common weal, a world in which nations and peoples find satisfaction not only in that which is to their own advantage but also in that which is to everyone’s advantage. At its forty-ninth session, may the General Assembly, under the leadership of its President, contribute to dispelling our concerns and to defining the ways and means of helping us blaze the way into the future. This is my delegation’s most fervent hope. The unique role of the United Nations is to promote the well-being of people, the security and development of nations and the protection of our common world. It was built on a resolve to maintain peace and security and to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples. The United Nations peace-keeping activities are a challenge for all nations. For Denmark, it is a matter of the highest priority. The United Nations can rely on Denmark to respond swiftly and efficiently to the needs of the Organization for troops, civilian police, customs officials and personnel for humanitarian relief operations. We have made organizational arrangements to make this possible, even at very short notice. A recent example is Denmark’s decision to contribute civilian personnel to engage in a humanitarian effort and to promote human rights in Haiti. We favour a combination of peace-keeping operations with humanitarian relief operations. The 16 establishment of the United Nations stand-by forces will enhance the ability to respond quickly to emerging crises. Denmark is ready to participate with further elements and is establishing an international brigade for that purpose. Peace-keeping has its own special features. They are different from traditional military training. Peace-keepers must consistently act in full accordance with their role and mandate. As has recently been said, patience, persistence and pressure are key elements of peace-keeping missions. Seventy-three nations today contribute troops, military observers or civilian police to the many ongoing operations. The number of troop-contributing nations is increasing. This has placed emphasis on the need for training. Denmark stands ready to share its vast experience and knowledge in peace-keeping training and requirements. The cooperation between the Baltic States, the Nordic countries and the United Kingdom on a Baltic peace-keeping battalion is a good example of such cooperation. At present, a Lithuanian platoon is serving in the Danish battalion in Croatia. Keeping the peace worldwide is costly. Funds are limited, as is the number of trained and equipped troops. In the future we must utilize preventive diplomacy. In Macedonia, we have seen the positive effects of the first example of preventive deployment. Communication between the Security Council and the troopcontributing countries is imperative. Further progress is needed on this, for instance in the form of regular consultations between the members of the Security Council, the troop-contributing States and the Secretariat. Peace-keeping involves the important question of safety and security for United Nations and associated personnel. Peace-keepers act as a neutral force. They must be ensured the highest possible standard of protection. Attacks cannot be tolerated. We strongly support the efforts of the United Nations to draft a legally binding treaty in this field. The 'Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277) led to discussions on a more active role of the United Nations in peacemaking and peace-keeping. It is to be hoped that the 'Agenda for Development' (A/49/935) will inspire an equally important discussion on the role of the United Nations in development. Development policies must correspond to prevailing social, economic, environmental, religious and ethnic problems. We cannot fight tomorrow’s battles with yesterday’s weapons. My Government is proud to host the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen in March 1995. The challenge of the Summit, the first of its kind, is to create new foundations of peace through development. It presents a unique chance to overcome the North-South divide through new approaches. We must eradicate poverty and enable all people to earn a livelihood. We must promote social integration by fostering just, safe and stable societies with the full participation of all people. Discrimination in all its forms must be eliminated and human rights respected, and conditions for children and young people must be improved. As a link to the Beijing Conference on Women, the Summit must make a strong commitment to achieving full equality between men and women and to enhancing the contribution of women to social progress and development. Progress has been achieved in the preparatory process for the Summit, but this process is still marked by difficulties. Time for preparation is running short. The Secretary-General is making untiring efforts to promote the Copenhagen Summit and to secure its success. It is essential that Member States support the Secretary-General in his endeavours in order to keep up the momentum of the process. The Summit represents an opportunity for world leaders to commit themselves and their Governments to a better and more just world. Members may rest assured that, as hosts of the Summit, we will spare no effort to make it a success. We are very much looking forward to welcoming Heads of State or Government in Copenhagen. The World Conference on Human Rights in 1993 was a turning-point in United Nations activities for the promotion and protection of human rights. It is gratifying to see one of its central recommendations implemented in the form of the establishment of the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights. Steps should now be taken to increase substantially the resources for the United Nations human rights programme. We must enable the High Commissioner to discharge his mandate in full. Human rights are a vital element in preventing and resolving conflicts. We must therefore develop new approaches to monitoring human rights. One such step 17 could be to set up a team of human rights monitors to assist the High Commissioner. Freedom of expression is a basic human right. The fatwa against Salman Rushdie and others constitutes a flagrant violation of this right. We urge the Iranian Government to dissociate itself from this threat. Increasingly we realize that our actions or our negligence as individual nations affect other nations and their populations. All nations have a common future that we must protect from nuclear disasters, environmental degradation and weapons of mass destruction. Chernobyl taught us how important this aspect of security is. It is of great concern to my Government that many nuclear facilities in Central and Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States are operating at critically low levels of safety. We must improve this situation. The Rio de Janeiro Conference in 1992 put renewed emphasis on environment and development. Denmark’s resolve to abide by the Rio principles is strong. Our international development assistance of 1 per cent of gross national product (GNP) is guided by the principles of sustainable development. This will provide additional financial resources to developing countries and countries in transition in order to assist them in meeting objectives of sustainability. Our common future also calls for taking steps towards disarmament, arms control and confidence-building measures. It implies reducing weapons of mass destruction, chemical and biological weapons as well as weapons to be used in outer space. We have reached a time that is conducive to these aims and to allowing the role of the United Nations to be enhanced. Reform of the United Nations is necessary. Denmark supports a strong Security Council. We agree that the Council needs to be adapted to today’s world and that it needs to be enlarged. In enlarging the Council, priority should be given to additional seats for non-permanent members, allocated under the principle of equitable geographical distribution. A small number of new seats could be allocated as permanent seats. We entrust the United Nations with mandates to secure worldwide peace, security and development, but we fail to ensure the Organization the necessary financial means. It is not tenable, for instance, that troop-contributing nations cannot be reimbursed, and I simply fail to understand how some Member States can advocate United Nations actions, including peace-keeping operations, and then refuse to pay the bill. Denmark welcomes the withdrawal of the last troops of the former Soviet Union from Estonia and Latvia on 31 August, in accordance with concluded agreements. This is truly a historic event. It is of significance to future relations between the Baltic States and Russia, to stability in the Baltic area and for European security. The agreements must now be fully implemented by all parties in order to keep up the momentum. As for the former Yugoslavia, important results have been reached since the establishment of the Contact Group. The decision by the authorities of the former Republic of Yugoslavia to close the Serbian-Bosnian border and to accept international surveillance is a direct consequence of pressure by the international community. The continued negative reaction to the peace plan of the Bosnian Serbs must lead to their further isolation. Sanctions remain one of the most efficient instruments in our policy of isolation. We therefore welcome the adoption of resolution 942 (1994) by the Security Council last week. Against that background, we welcome the deferral of the question of lifting the arms embargo. Denmark firmly believes that the arms embargo should not be lifted, as this would entail risks of the conflict’s spreading. It would disrupt the peace negotiations, which combine the efforts of the United Nations, the European Union, the United States and Russia, and it would make the continued presence of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) impossible. UNPROFOR is playing an indispensable role in attempting to keep the peace and at the same time alleviate the plight of the people. With 1,400 troops, civilian police and monitors in the former Yugoslavia, Denmark is one of the largest troop contributors to UNPROFOR. We remain committed to our participation in this operation. We believe that a strict and effective sealing off of the border between Serbia and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina will be a new and decisive element. At short notice Denmark sent observers for the Mission of the International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia (ICFY) to monitor that border. 18 Denmark continues to make substantial contributions to the humanitarian relief work in the former Yugoslavia. Coordination by the United Nations and the European Union is progressing favourably. Denmark is placing both personnel and financial means at the disposal of that enterprise. We strongly condemn the renewed 'ethnic cleansings' which the Serbs have systematically carried out. The persons responsible for these atrocities must be brought before the international tribunal set up for the punishment of crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia. In the Middle East political will and hard negotiations have created a historic breakthrough. Denmark warmly welcomes the signing of the Declaration of Principles between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) in 1993 and the Declaration signed between Israel and Jordan in 1994. The Gaza-Jericho Agreement was the next important step. International support is now needed to keep up the momentum. The holding of fair and free elections in Gaza and the West Bank will represent significant progress. We encourage the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli Government to ensure speedy implementation of the election process. Progress should also be achieved in the negotiations between Syria and Israel and between Lebanon and Israel. We welcome the clear political will of all parties to continue their efforts to bring about such progress. They all stand to gain significantly from peace, and the United Nations continues to have an important role to play. The tragic events in Rwanda revealed the weakness of the United Nations and of the international community. It was demonstrated that we were not able to provide an effective and timely response. The challenge remains to create stability and ensure Rwanda the proper conditions for development. This will require an international effort on a considerable scale, which can be successful only if it is firmly rooted in Rwanda and the countries of the region. On the African scene it is heartening to see the Republic of South Africa reinstated in its seat in the Assembly. It is now fully participating in the work of the United Nations. South Africa has proved to the world that a peaceful transition from repression to democracy is possible. It has set an example. This also confirms that the United Nations has a role to play in bringing about fundamental reforms in a repressive society. Denmark has been a staunch supporter of the forces of democratic change in South Africa. We will continue our considerable financial support to the consolidation of democracy. The best contribution of Member States to the United Nations is to reconfirm their will to implement the Charter, to accelerate the reform process and, indeed, to pay their dues. The United Nations is, and must continue to be, a vital instrument in the service of the peoples of the world. It is a special pleasure and honour for me to extend to my brother, Amara Essy, my delegation’s warmest congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. He is a highly esteemed and valued friend to many of us, and we can rest assured that his vast diplomatic and political experience, coupled with his proven leadership qualities, will guide this Assembly through a very productive and successful session. The Assembly is also most grateful for the exemplary and skilful manner in which Ambassador Insanally successfully conducted the affairs of the forty-eighth session during his tenure as President. We must also recognize the dynamic and resourceful manner in which the Secretary-General has guided the Secretariat of the United Nations during this period of momentous internal and worldwide change. That the ordinary citizens of the world and its many poor have a humane and sensitive advocate in the halls of power of the United Nations is a great stabilizing factor. We wish the Secretary-General well in his unending efforts to bring peace and development to all corners of our troubled world. As our Organization moves towards its fiftieth year, there is an air of concern for the state of the world, its 24 people and the United Nations itself. Building upon our emphasis last year on the rights of the individual, the purview of the international community has expanded to encompass the right of the individual to a better economic and social life. The population Conference at Cairo highlighted the pressures of population on economic growth and development, and marked specific areas for action, with targets and goals, and next year’s Copenhagen conference on social development will explore widespread poverty and unemployment, and the critical issue of social integration. We have come to realize that these problems cannot be solved in isolation by any of the principal actors - - individuals, States or even the international community. Only by cooperating and working together to reinforce the special attributes of each can we begin to arrest the pervasive social disintegration, endemic conflict and world disorder that threaten our security and our future. Fortunately, in the United Nations, whatever its limitations, we have a truly international Organization at the centre of all these issues, which needs only proper use and reinforcement to reverse these corrosive trends. As we review the developments of the past year in the light of the triumphs and tragedies experienced by the world body and by the international community, the picture which emerges is one of persistent conflict and pervasive poverty. Happily, some perennial points of antagonism, such as South Africa and Palestine, have witnessed extraordinary developments. For some, the dramatic accord between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel, negotiated entirely by the Palestinians themselves, continues to be viewed with a measure of astonishment. True enough, the accord will not satisfy everyone, and conditions remain on future progress, but after so many decades of having a minimal voice in their destiny and of paltry changes in their condition, the Palestinians have made the first real breakthrough towards a Palestinian State. Efforts towards political and democratic institutionalization and administrative refinement, accompanied by widespread political participation and empowerment, are evolving slowly and may demonstrate to the international community the level of support lent by Palestinians to the direction implied by the accords. The substantial international assistance pledged and envisaged to underwrite the requisite stability and progress must be forthcoming in order to meet the urgent needs of the Palestinian governing authority, and to achieve the goals of a functioning and efficient Palestinian entity. The Palestinians have suffered long and hard under a harsh and often difficult occupation, enduring numerous false starts and misdirected illusions. They have now embarked on the road to self-determination and should receive the total support of the international community. But the eventual realization of a full Palestinian State must be clear, and any measures tending to render the occupied territories merely 'self administered' Bantustans, supplying labor to Israel’s more developed economy, must be resisted by all means. Not only the continent of Africa, but the entire world must take pride in the remarkable progress unfolding in South Africa. Under the inspiring and extraordinary leadership of President Mandela, South Africa has become an exemplary model for the international community of national reconciliation and unity. During the recent dramatic period in its history, South Africa was likewise fortunate to have had a visionary in the person of Mr. de Klerk, who was aware of the role of timing and recognized the need for change. While there have been many players in the struggle against apartheid, certainly none are more deserving of praise and recognition than the majority people of South Africa themselves. South Africa cannot fail to appreciate that all of Africa, and in fact the world, shares in its joy. We can only urge President Mandela and his country to continue to work together to advance the task of restructuring South Africa so that it truly realizes its undoubted greatness. By now the world is painfully aware of the fate of Rwanda, torn apart by sheer hatred and intolerance, by leaders bent upon exploiting ethnic differences for selfish gains. Employing all manner of fear, intimidation and propaganda, they succeeded in stirring up nearly an entire people to turn against another, until the eventual human carnage, in so compressed a time span, was no doubt unequalled in human history. Even now, the intransigent leadership of the millions of suffering Hutus, eking out a bare existence in the volcanic soils of eastern Zaire or the other surrounding countries, refuses to acknowledge the plight of their people, dissuading them with threats and violence from returning to their country. Their actions cannot be pardoned; the perpetrators of this insane episode must be brought to justice and punished. Otherwise, their implacable goal of rearming and returning one day to the battle field promises a long night of recurring horror for Central Africa. Regrettably, by paying no heed to the early signs of pending troubles, and by seeking ways to severely limit its involvement, the world body lost the opportunity to play a significant part in preventing this tragedy. Worse still, the difficulty in assembling and suitably equipping a United Nations peace-keeping force has not helped to instil in those who 25 have fled the confidence needed to return, and in those who have remained the confidence needed to stay. All this leaves the new Government of Rwanda in the throes of a critical dilemma, requiring immeasurable soul searching. For a country from which nearly one-third of the population has fled - in the case of Rwanda some 2 million people - the numbers are so large and disproportionate as to deny the Government a large measure of the legitimacy it badly needs. Something very serious must be done to bring the two peoples together in meaningful national reconciliation, with a Government that reflects this. Certainly the spirit and intent of the Arusha Accord remains even more valid today in the light of what has taken place. Note must also be taken of the valiant efforts of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR), facing terrible odds in a situation of such frightening chaos. Despite its small numbers, its attempts to alleviate the suffering and protect the vulnerable undoubtedly saved many lives and provided a measure of sanity in a sea of madness. The world body should recognize with pride and great appreciation what has been done by the personnel of UNAMIR and its illustrious leader, General Romeo Dallaire of Canada. One reason for pessimism in Central Africa is the fact that many of the factors that led to breakdown in Rwanda are also present in Burundi. There the ominous rise in killings, coupled with the accelerating pace of rearmament, should cause extreme concern to the world community. With the army at the epicentre of power, and with weapons calling the shots, so to speak, government and politics could remain tense and unstable. However, we are strongly encouraged by the recent indications of an emerging political consensus, as evidenced by the installation of a new president. This is a positive trend which we hope will manifest itself in all aspects of political, economic and social activity. The plights of Angola and Liberia are likewise grave; both are locked in a destructive state of shooting negotiations. In both, the humanitarian situation is again regressing and a cease-fire is nowhere in sight; the gun is again the preferred method of voting. Fortunately, progress toward peace and an elected national Government is still on its course in Mozambique, where the leadership seems to be serious about ending the prolonged and destructive state of conflict and engaging for the first time in building a democratic State through national elections, scheduled for October this year. The United Nations Observer Mission in Mozambique (UNOMOZ) is determined to fulfil all targets and tasks on schedule and believes in the prospects of success for the people of Mozambique. Its strong In Haiti, the long-anticipated international intervention, sanctioned in Security Council resolution 940 (1994), has taken place. A multinational force has peacefully secured the country, thanks in large measure to the good deal of prudence shown, and the intense diplomatic efforts undertaken, by the United States. We are pleased that the junta has deemed it unwise to oppose the world, and instead has agreed to relinquish power in order to facilitate the return of the democratically elected President, Mr. Jean-Bertrand Aristide. In other areas, Djibouti remains saddened by the status quo in the bilateral discussions between the two Gulf neighbours, Iran and the United Arab Emirates, concerning the three islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa. We believe there is an urgent need for a renewed and serious effort to resolve this dispute through all possible peaceful avenues, including its referring it to the International Court of Justice. Bosnia remains a high-profile international flashpoint. Despite the warning of dire consequences, the Bosnian Serbs have rejected the final compromise proposal of the five-nation Contact Group, which awards them 49 per cent of the country, over two-thirds of which they have taken by force. In the weeks since the rejection, nothing has been done to punish the Bosnian Serbs, as it had been intimated would be done. In fact, the Serbs continue to apply consistent pressure on the Bosnian Government and the United Nations, targeting Sarajevo and its airport, blocking United Nations food convoys and strangling safe areas such as Srebrenica and Gorazde. Even 'ethnic cleansing' has resumed. One shudders to think what would have happened immediately if it had been the Muslim party that had rejected the proposal. This inaction reflects the blatant unwillingness of the international community to take any meaningful action against the culprits, let alone punish them. This only encourages further intransigence. The Serb reaction to difficult situations consists in resorting to wild, radical behaviour, eliciting retreat and concessions by the peacemakers. One can never say what they will do tomorrow, which means their word today has no intrinsic value. To have rewarded Belgrade with a loosening of 26 the sanctions in the absence of a viable and comprehensive peace agreement or concrete proof of compliance is to mistake the form of this family dispute for its substance perhaps because there is none. And what is the benefit for the Bosnian Government, which agreed to the peace plan? Will steps be taken to remedy the onerous military and humanitarian imbalance? Will Serbia-Montenegro recognize Bosnia within its current borders or agree to cooperate with the International Tribunal? The proper course of action, in the absence of any semblance of sanity and settlement, is to lift the arms embargo against the Bosnian Government. What else? I would now like to address the question of Somalia. The return to a functioning civil society in Somalia is, if anything, even more remote, as meaningful inter-faction talks have ceased, security is evaporating, the dream of national reconciliation fading and the United Nations Operations in Somalia (UNOSOM) focused on the process of withdrawing. The only certainty in Somalia is political uncertainty. As a neighbour that has observed and knows all too well Somalia’s convulsive history, Djibouti can only be distressed at the continuing problems and utter hopelessness. What is to be done? For too long the United Nations has sought voluntary disarmament, conferences of national reconciliation, interim government and hopefully, in the end, a government elected by the people. Creating pressure for this process is the looming departure of UNOSOM scheduled for 31 March 1995, when operations may be closed down. Although we anticipate that the people will ultimately have the final say through elections, at present it is the warlords and their factions that have been given a comprehensive veto. On the assumption that they are the powers that be in Somalia, considerable time has been spent attempting to gain their agreement in the hope of eventually reaching the people through them. But clearly the faction leaders desire the political process to stop with them without flowing through to the people. So at their door everything stops, and the people are never given a say or an input. The obvious plan of the faction leaders is undoubtedly to induce the United Nations to believe conditions are propitious for withdrawal and then to settle scores among themselves until someone is victorious. But in the process, can we discount the possibility of a return to conditions of starvation and famine, the kind of Somalia that existed prior to the arrival of the United Nations? What will be the immediate and long-term consequences or implications of leaving Somalia in anarchy to the forlorn women, children and innocent population of Somalia and to its neighbours, which are already weighed down under an incessant flow of refugees? Will there be a Somali State in the end? Perhaps yes, perhaps no. It is hard, however, to preclude a positive eventuality, however far-fetched that may seem at present. Clearly, what is absent from the whole process is the voice of the people in the selection of true, legitimate leadership and government to counter the present abdication of power to bands of gun-holders. We must find ways of directly giving voice to the people, leading straight to legitimate government. Solidifying these steps would then be the job of ample United Nations forces on hand, drawing upon this Organization’s experience in Cambodia, Mozambique and elsewhere. Certainly, the thought of leaving Somalia with nothing in place and so many lives at risk is both abhorrent and unacceptable, a case where it will be interpreted that a 'failed State' has been abandoned by the United Nations. Walking out of a society in a mess before reconstituting it as a functioning entity will undeniably mark a precedent in the history of the United Nations and will certainly represent a far cry from the hopes, promises and commitments enshrined in the Charter. Although I have briefly explored situations in a number of world trouble spots, the sad fact is that others appear to be gathering wind in their sails, ready to burst forth. Consequently, demands for expanded United Nations involvement can be expected to rise, and the question that must again be asked, based upon recent experiences is: Could the Organization cope? More and more we see peace-keeping patterns of an ad hoc nature, struggling under the lack of equipment, logistics, intelligence and manpower, poor coordination and communications. But the fault can hardly be laid at the feet of the United Nations if its urgent requests for material and human resources are not met or are met slowly or inadequately. With no force or equipment of its own, and therefore required to begin each operation from scratch, the resulting delays have severely hampered timely United Nations reaction - leading, for example, to genocide in Rwanda. And all this says nothing of the difficulties stemming from ever-dwindling resources. Such a state of affairs must be a cause for concern, as the United Nations will increasingly be forced to limit its responses to diplomatic initiatives, such as we have seen in Haiti. In place of classic peace-keeping, we will witness a growing reliance upon ad hoc multinational intervention, the so-called posse response, but that too has 27 its limitations - for we are concerned with whether there is to be meaningful collective security. If United Nations peace-keeping withers, and in its place we are forced to rely on ad hoc interventions, then we need to ask under what basis that involvement will be forthcoming. In view of these developing trends, the United Nations may be forced to rely more upon simply letting conflicts run their natural course, as in Somalia. What this situation amply demonstrates is that the United Nations needs a well-trained, mobile, standing force with rapid deployment capability. Delayed deployment of undermanned and under-equipped units, as was the situation in Rwanda, fails to inspire confidence. The availability of a rapid reaction force may at least address a good number of probable conflict situations, often serving as a deterrent simply by virtue of being in a position to act quickly. It is fashionable these days to say that we live in an international world, a 'global village' in which nations can no longer avoid the effects of developments in their neighbours or the world. For Djibouti, this fact has a particularly telling impact, for we have been forced to grapple with the effects of years of past instability, warfare and massive national disintegration in the Horn of Africa, as in Somalia at present. From the financially debilitating incursion of heavily armed militia to the equally draining cost of demobilization that we face right now; to the flood of refugees, the care and cost of which has overwhelmed our infrastructure and health, educational and housing services; to the crippling loss of vital markets, as in Somalia, for our services; coupled with the devastation brought by the seemingly unending drought and pestilence, Djibouti has inevitably been slowly moving towards negative growth and development in the last few years. Yet, whatever the extent of our difficulties arising from these circumstances, Djibouti has steadfastly sought to remain a good-neighbourly State, contributing, to the extent permitted by our meagre resources, to regional stability and peace efforts. Moreover, recognizing the need to further involve the people of Djibouti in the complex process of development and governance, we have an overhauled our political structure and institutions. Still there remains a disturbing predicament facing Djibouti and other countries like it in the world, namely that countries which are relatively stable, moderate and democratic and which are contributing, and participating in international efforts, to bring relief, reduce tensions, halt aggression and conflict tend to be overlooked by the international community. Despite the drain on our meagre resources because of refugees and market losses, and despite our continuing positive contributions to regional and international peace efforts, it seems that the general calm and freedom prevailing in my country are lulling the world into believing that there are no really pressing concerns or needs or for assistance. Too often, little attention too often is paid to a nation, it seems, until it is too desperate and near collapse, or until it is perceived by the international community as a source of new danger to peace and security, thereby qualifying it for aid and assistance. This makes little sense, and is indeed a mockery of the preventive measures that are often-mentioned but seldom instituted. We deserve better, but we remain quite confident that both our efforts and our urgent needs for critical resources will be recognized by our friends and development partners. Djibouti, and all the countries of the Horn, have been subjected to the ravages of destructive natural causes, well beyond our individual power to cope with them. Such is the inexorable drift of the Sahara southward, or the severe drought conditions leading to famine which now plagues the Horn. Overall, an estimated 20 million people are at risk in 10 countries, facing farms that are parched, rivers that are dried up, and pestilence. Anticipating possible mass starvation resulting from the lack of rain and water, food stocks were made ready, only to be virtually depleted by a sudden emergency elsewhere, as in Rwanda. A pervasive air of hopelessness and apprehension now grips the nations of the Horn, the urgency of which merits the immediate concern and attention of the international community. Adding to the difficulties arising from natural causes, nations just as often face social forces over which they have little control. Domestic macro-economic policies in many industrialized countries, seeking to combat inflation or balance international payments, often have drastic effects on the demand for third-world products and on commodity prices. The result, as one analyst explains, is frequently declining terms of trade, sharply increased interest rates, reduced exports, massive increases in current account deficits, interest and debt-service payments, all at a time of reduced aid and other capital flows. External payment restraints, in particular, have affected levels of domestic production in both industrial and agricultural sectors, at times even production for export, leading to inflation, acute financial crises and mounting debt. 28 Many third world countries simply lack the economic capacity and flexibility to react in the short term. In the long run, everyone benefits from greater coherence and efficiency in the international economic system. Clearly the world’s economic and financial system requires much more order, predictability, coordination and fairness. Along these lines, I feel it is imperative to refer again to the issue of the restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields - in particular the relevant General Assembly resolutions bearing particularly on the vital field of operational activities for development, and the General Assembly’s important coordinating role. As the most truly representative body of the world’s people and States, the General Assembly needs to return to its original role as contemplated by the founding Member States and set forth in the Charter. It must provide a more decisive lead in strategy and policy, in reviewing, in critiquing and approving the operation of the total system. Likewise, as opposed to the extreme decentralization current in United Nations economic activities and institutions - each one a separate entity unto itself, often at cross purposes - we must also return to the original role foreseen in the Charter for the Economic and Social Council as an economic security council. The Economic and Social Council must remain open to receive and address the concerns of Africa, which should not be hampered in its effective and beneficial participation in the Council and its subsidiary bodies. In this regard, we welcomed the Secretary General’s report 'An Agenda for Development' which provided the opportunity for a comprehensive review of world economic and social problems, particularly in Africa. Africa’s development concerns have been well documented in General Assembly resolution 48/214 on the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, which we hope can serve as a basis on which the international community can act in solidarity in mobilizing new and additional resources to solve the pressing problems of the poor. For if we are to address constructively the questions of economic growth and development, of the formulation of truly beneficial international macro-economic systems, we need to begin to take those confidence- building measures that will bring the North and the South closer and strengthen the concept of partnership. In the area of collective security, there remains the imperative need to expand the Security Council and to make it more transparent and democratic through an increase in its membership and by making it more accountable to the General Assembly. There should be periodic reviews of the Council’s structure and functions in line with international developments. A more equitable geographical representation is critical, along with an increase in permanent representation for developing countries. Allow me to congratulate the President sincerely on his election to preside over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I am particularly pleased to see a representative of a French-speaking African country occupy this important position. We trust that the forty-ninth session will, under his enlightened leadership, pay special attention to the political, economic and social problems facing his continent, so sorely tried over these last few years. Next year the United Nations will celebrate its fiftieth anniversary with a series of activities throughout the world. The image of the United Nations in the eyes of world public opinion will depend largely on its status, on the extent to which it has remained faithful, 50 years after its founding, to the principles of the San Francisco Charter, which are still valid. I believe it must be a priority to strengthen the world Organization in the spirit of Article 1 of the Charter, so that it can effectively carry out its mission of maintaining international peace and security. Let us also recall here the words of the great philosopher, Sir Karl Popper, recently deceased, who wrote: 'Our primary objective must be peace. But we must not hesitate to wage war for peace.' We have given the United Nations the responsibility of deciding when to use force to preserve peace. This weighty responsibility has to be exercised when necessary. The Security Council is of paramount importance in preserving peace in the world. In order to maintain and strengthen the legitimacy and effectiveness of the Security Council, Austria advocates a slight increase in its membership. Every Member of the United Nations must be able to see and understand how views develop within that body. They must all be able to feel sure that discussions in the Council take account of the views of interested countries, for example, countries contributing troops for peace-keeping operations. The importance of the United Nations must be preserved and developed, not only as a system for the maintenance of international peace and security, but also as a forum for discussion and an instrument for coordination at the global level. On the first point, much remains to be done. In the social and economic sphere and in the field of development, important progress has been made, notably with the reform of the Economic and Social Council, which has permitted better guidance of operational activities for development. A solid financial basis is absolutely vital to the effective discharge of the United Nations mission. Non- payment or late payment of mandatory contributions by Member States is a violation of the Charter and of the duty of international solidarity. The burden thus created falls, above all, on those Members that are called good 12 payers and those that provide troops, expenditures that are reimbursed by the United Nations only after considerable delay. This chronic problem, which is getting worse, can be resolved only by timely and full payment of mandatory contributions by all Member States. As one of the 20 countries that, in 1994, paid their full contribution in a timely fashion to the regular budget of the United Nations, and as a regular participant in peace-keeping operations, Austria will, along with the Secretariat and other interested delegations, seek a solution to this difficult problem. On the eve of its fiftieth anniversary the United Nations faces new challenges at the world level. Sustainable development, the monitoring of world population growth, the elimination of poverty, the creation of opportunities for productive employment, social integration, equality for women, better protection of human rights, non-proliferation of nuclear weapons - all are major themes of our era and have been or will be the subject of international conferences. The task of the United Nations is to draw the necessary conclusions from the results of these conferences and to define the outlines of sustainable human development at the world level. The Secretary- General’s reports, 'An Agenda for Peace' and 'Agenda for Development', are essential elements in a discussion that has already led to a broader understanding of the idea of security. The protection and promotion of human rights is one of the central tasks of the United Nations. The accomplishment of this task has benefited from the vital impetus provided by the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. While we can be pleased with the outcome of the World Conference on Human Rights, the lasting impact of the final document of Vienna will none the less be measured by the continuing will of the community of nations to give effect to its provisions more rapidly and to guarantee them more effectively than in the past. A crucial role is to be played in this connection by the High Commissioner for Human Rights. Austria welcomes the swift implementation of this central provision of the Vienna document. In the few months that he has occupied his post, Mr. José Ayala Lasso has fully lived up to the expectations arising out of his difficult and important mandate. His official visit to Vienna began a dialogue with all Governments. It seems to us a matter of priority to promote coordination of international protection of human rights within the United Nations system, and in this the High Commissioner will, of course, have a determining role to play. We should also strengthen the various mechanisms for protecting human rights, as well as the role of the Special Rapporteurs. This should make it possible to react more quickly to violations of human rights and to prevent them more effectively. The resources needed for the High Commissioner’s work should be provided as soon as possible. Effective protection of human rights is not only a duty towards each individual; it is also an essential contribution to ensuring stability, development and security. History teaches us that we must resolutely oppose all flagrant violations of human rights, such as genocide in the Nazi concentration camps or by the Khmer Rouge, as soon as they are brought to light. This makes it all the more difficult to understand that the resolution adopted by the United Nations Conference on Human Rights relating to Bosnia and Herzegovina has remained a dead letter, thereby jeopardizing the credibility of our world Organization. In this connection, I wish to pay a particular tribute to Mr. Tadeusz Mazowiecki, former Prime Minister of Poland and Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights, for his excellent work, of which the world community should be proud. I would also hail President Izetbegovic´ of Bosnia and Herzegovina who, with great self-discipline and in a very constructive spirit, has accepted to speak with those who are committing a kind of genocide against his people. This is remarkable conduct from an extraordinary individual. The effective protection of minorities involves great difficulties in many countries. I am pleased to be able to inform the Assembly that, in 1992, Austria and Italy were able to resolve their dispute over the Southern Tyrol. The dispute related to the implementation of the 1946 Treaty of Paris on the situation of the German-speaking and Ladino-speaking populations in Southern Tyrol. It was also dealt with in General Assembly resolutions 1497 (XV) and 1661 (XVI), adopted at the fifteenth and sixteenth sessions respectively. The solution that was agreed to by both sides was to establish relatively comprehensive autonomy in southern Tyrol. This seemed on the whole to be an adequate basis for ensuring the continued existence of the German- speaking and Ladino minorities. 13 Given the constant changes in the atmosphere - particularly the economic and financial atmosphere - there has to be a dynamic autonomy if its objective is to be attained. This will require ongoing flexibility and understanding on the part of the relevant authorities. A solution to the minorities problem on the basis of territorial autonomy must, over the long term, aim at ensuring that all those who live together under the same roof view such autonomy as a positive thing that protects their respective interests. The unanimous statements made by Prime Minister Berlusconi, Foreign Minister Martino and Interior Minister Maroni that they would not touch the autonomy of southern Tyrol seem to us to be a guarantee that we shall continue on the same road. Austria is proud, as one of the headquarters countries of the United Nations, to host a number of important programmes that meet the immediate interests of the individual and also have a decisive impact on international relations. These include protection from drug abuse, the struggle against crime, questions on the use and control of nuclear power and on the preservation of the system for the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons - all of these are major activities of the United Nations at Vienna, as is international cooperation on outer space and on the promotion of international industrial development. Following recent political changes, important new areas for United Nations activities have emerged in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. Vienna sees itself as an important point for coordinating activities to support and assist those States as they move towards democracy, a state of law and a market economy. On the eve of its fiftieth anniversary, the United Nations currently has more than 70,000 people in 17 different peace-keeping operations. More than three times the regular budget is being devoted to those operations. Austria, which has been involved for decades in such operations, is aware of the enormous challenge that this poses to the United Nations and its Member States in terms of funds, personnel and organization. One of the most important events to take place within the framework of the activities organized in Austria in connection with the fiftieth anniversary will be the very high-level conference set for early March 1995 in Vienna. This conference will be devoted to the discussion, analysis and preparation of recommendations on how best to take up the challenge of measures to preserve peace on the eve of the new millennium. I am particularly pleased and grateful that the Secretary-General has been kind enough to agree to deliver the opening address in Austria. Austria is in favour of strengthening civilian peace- keeping operations and of stepping up United Nations activities in preventive diplomacy. Thus, the Austrian Federal Government has established, in the city of Schlaining, a centre for civilian peace-keeping operations. This year, we held our second seminar on the re- establishment of peace and on preventive diplomacy, a seminar in which high officials of the United Nations participated. Also in Schlaining, we have a regular training programme, with international participation, for civilian international operations relating to peace-keeping and peace-building. For a quarter of a century, the non-proliferation Treaty has successfully prevented the proliferation of nuclear weapons and has also successfully prevented the abuse of nuclear power for military purposes. The 1995 Review Conference will take a decision on extending the non-proliferation Treaty. Our common goal must be the unconditional and unrestricted extension of the Treaty. Austria also has good reason to hope that the substantive negotiations currently under way in the Conference on Disarmament with a view to the conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty will lead to nuclear disarmament. As the host country of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Austria is aware of the importance of this control mechanism for the application of the Non- Proliferation Treaty. The success of any future agreement on a nuclear-test ban will, in the final analysis, depend on the effectiveness of the work done by organizations responsible for its implementation and verification. A year ago, the Austrian Federal Government decided to offer Vienna as headquarters for the future organization to be established under the nuclear-test-ban treaty, and I would wish to extend this invitation again today before the General Assembly. This year once again, our hopes of seeing an end to the fighting in the territory of the former Yugoslavia have been dashed. Despite international initiatives and peace plans, the actual prospects for an equitable and lasting solution are not very good. The reconciliation between the Bosnian Croats and the Bosnians, which stemmed from the Washington Agreements, should not make us forget that the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina continues 14 to leave innumerable victims in its wake. The toll of dead and displaced persons grows daily more terrible. The aggressor has gone so far as to attack or lay siege to cities that have been declared United Nations protected areas. Despite repeated international condemnation, the Serbian side has continued its practice of 'ethnic cleansing'. Austria strongly condemns these crimes, wherever and by whomever they may be perpetrated, and we shall never stop calling for an end to such practices. Basic principles of the international order continue to be trampled underfoot and lose their credibility. Specific resolutions such as those on military guarantees for protected areas or return of refugees to their home, have not yet been implemented. All international initiatives and efforts for the repatriation of refugees have been made a mockery by 'ethnic cleansing', which continues to be practised and, in the final analysis, continues to be tolerated at the international level. The arms embargo imposed by the Security Council in September 1991 has a unilateral impact, to the detriment of those countries that have taken over from the former Yugoslavia and that are threatened by Serbian ambitions. And so we have arrived at a situation where the legitimate Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina is unable fully to exercise its right to legitimate self-defence, while at the same time that State cannot even benefit from adequate protection under the system of collective security. On the other hand, we do not see any attempt on the Serbian side to abandon the idea of a Greater Serbia based on the illegal conquest of territories by force. This can be seen from the fact that the peace plans prepared by the European Union and the contact group have still not been accepted by the Serbian side, although on many points they do respond to their aspirations. In its resolution 943 (1994) of 23 September the Security Council set forth the conditions for a suspension of sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). The Belgrade Government must allow international observers to control the blockade against the Bosnian Serbs. The observer Mission now being established along the Serbo-Bosnian border is, as Austria sees it, a step in the right direction but, and I stress the point, it remains to be seen how effectively the Mission will be able to carry out its task and whether credible consequences will in fact be drawn from the conclusions arrived at by the observers. In Croatia also the situation remains largely unchanged: contrary to the provisions of the 1992 Vance plan which was approved by the Security Council, more than one quarter of the country remains in the hands of the rebel Serbs. So far there has been neither demilitarization of these regions under the supervision of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) troops nor has it yet been possible for the civilian population to return. Recent protests show to what extent the situation has become untenable for displaced persons within Croatia. Against the backdrop of the extremely harsh judgements often pronounced on Croatia one must not forget the very clear terms of the legal opinions of the Badinter Commission in January 1992. From these texts it is clear that, in principle, Croatia met all the conditions set forth by the European Union for recognition of new States in Eastern Europe. I realize that in some areas, such as administration, practices vis-à-vis the minorities and the media, improvements are still much to be desired. But we should not measure Croatia by different and harsher criteria than the criteria we use for other countries in central and south-eastern Europe because we have greater access to Croatia and because there are more transparent structures there, and there is no other country in Europe, apart from Bosnia and Herzegovina, that has been subjected for years to a violent military attack with which it has to cope under extremely difficult conditions. The situation in Kosovo, which has been too neglected because of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is continuing to deteriorate. The Belgrade authorities have pursued their systematic action against the Albanian majority of the population. There is still a danger that mass violence may erupt. Observer missions sent by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) which were expelled in 1993 have not been authorized to return despite intensive international efforts to that end. In that region, which is almost 90 per cent inhabited by Albanians and has been fully autonomous during the past couple of decades, we are witnessing the exercise of a kind of power that is tantamount to that of an occupying regime. The situation in former Yugoslavia shows that what the great French philosopher, Blaise Pascal, said in his Pensées remains as true as ever. He said that justice without force was powerless and that force without justice was tyrannical. The collective security system of the United Nations which is part of the post-war order, has not really been applied by the international community in the case of the conflict in former Yugoslavia. The hope that the collective security system would be used as an 15 instrument of peace following its successful use after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait has proved disappointing. Unfortunately, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not an isolated case. It would be a serious mistake not to mention, at least, some other tragedies - Rwanda, Angola, Afghanistan, Haiti, Tajikistan, and so on. There is too long a list of hotbeds of crisis and violence, where the law of the strongest tramples underfoot the principles of the Charter of San Francisco. At the same time we must draw strength and optimism from some positive developments, historic in their significance. I may mention, for example, free and democratic elections in South Africa, an end to the policy of apartheid, autonomy in Gaza and Jericho, and an end to the state of war between Jordan and Israel. In South Africa and in the Middle East age-old objectives of the United Nations have finally been attained or are about to be attained. Austria, in so far as it can, actively supports these peaceful processes, not only in the interests of the peoples concerned but also in the interests of greater hope of resolving other similar problems. The year 1994 is of historic significance to Austria. A huge majority - 66.58 per cent - of the Austrian people came out firmly in support of joining the European Union, a community of States that holds the same values as, and plays an increasingly important role in, the United Nations. This was the largest support in a European State for the idea of European integration. With that democratic force we will continue to support this goal, and - as of 1 January I hope - as a member of this community we will contribute in a spirit of solidarity and openness to the attainment of the objectives of the United Nations as we have done in the past. First of all, I should like to extend congratulations to the President on his election. My colleague Foreign Minister Kinkel, on behalf of the European Union, has just given a broad overview of our approach to the United Nations. The great challenges which the United Nations faces today are well summarized in his statement. The idea that the world is divided into a North and a South with greatly diverging interests is being replaced by a growing awareness that the fundamental problems we face are common, global problems - to ensure sustainable development, to protect our environment, to solve the population problem, to prevent social 20 disintegration, to uphold justice and to protect the dignity of the human person. The United Nations will have to play a central role in our common efforts to find answers to these global problems. There is a need for coherent, integrated policies for problems which have so far been treated largely as separate questions - problems of peace and security, development, trade, democracy and human rights, the environment. The United Nations 'Agenda for Peace' and its agenda for development are closely connected. By building on its comparative advantages the United Nations can play its role as the primary institution for global international cooperation which is envisaged in its Charter. We, the Member States, will have to enable the United Nations to do so. Are we really providing this body with the necessary means to live up to expectations? It has become fashionable, when expectations are not met, to blame shortcomings on the United Nations itself. I tend to take a different view. Member States are to be blamed at least as much as the Organization which struggles as our faithful servant. Rather than making the United Nations our scapegoat, Member States have first of all to make an honest and serious effort, through timely and full payment of financial contributions, to provide it with the means to play the role we expect it to play. But we need a change in attitude as well. As inhabitants of the global village, we can no longer remain indifferent to the fate of our fellow human beings, even if they live on a different continent. CNN brings their problems right into our living rooms, visible, immediate, inescapable. Rwanda, Haiti and former Yugoslavia, Goma and Vukovar - tragedies such as these touch the conscience of citizens in all parts of the globe. How do we respond to this? The prerequisites for successful action by the United Nations are credibility and legitimacy. To put it differently: the United Nations must become an institution in which all peoples of the world are fairly represented and have a fair say in decision-making. There must be a balance between burdens and benefits for all and, most importantly, there must be an awareness at the level of both Governments and individuals that the United Nations can make a difference. The paradox is that the distance between decision- makers and those represented seems to grow, in spite of the increase in the speed and volume of communications. This does not affect solely the credibility - and therefore the legitimacy - of the United Nations. The credibility of State structures at the national level is equally at stake. Everywhere in the world, including in what used to be called the first, the second and the third worlds, we see a profound cynicism about government and Governments. This is partly due to the fact that certain expectations cannot any longer be met. The power of Governments has been diminished because many important activities, especially in the economic sphere, have moved from Government into private or corporate hands. They are not quite outside the sphere of direct action of Governments and, for that matter, of the United Nations. However, a substantial part of this widespread cynicism stems from the perception of a lack of common decency, from the feeling that Governments and institutions work for their own good in the first place and that the interest of the people whom they are supposed to serve comes second. In this respect I think we can take heart from the success of the International Conference on Population and Development held recently at Cairo. That success was built on a formula that essentially amounted to common decency, namely, to face the population problem not through coercion and discrimination but by giving people the means to follow, freely and responsibly, the path of their own choice. This should serve as an example for us as Governments with regard to other matters as well. If we apply the criteria of fairness and decency to the United Nations, then it is clear that major adjustments are needed. In some fields work on this task has started and a number of preliminary steps have been taken - for instance, the appointment of an inspector general. We should not deceive ourselves, however, into believing that everything is therefore well. Good bookkeeping is essential, but fraud never constituted the core of the United Nations problem. Even good management, immensely important though it is, is only a necessary tool. Let me mention some of my priorities for an agenda for a revitalized United Nations. The tremendous increase in peace-keeping operations clearly signals a change in the role of the Security Council. The emphasis is more and more on cooperative crisis management, resolution and prevention in various regional conflicts. The permanent members of the Council are expected to take a leading role when countries are requested to 21 contribute the means needed to implement the Council’s decisions. In this new era the yardstick for great-Power status is no longer the number of nuclear bombs but now the concrete contribution that a country is prepared and able to make to the cooperative effort to stem the tide of war, misery and poverty in the world. For this reason the Netherlands is in favour of the admission of Germany and Japan to the Security Council as permanent members. Both countries have an impeccable record as Members of the United Nations. They have expressed their willingness to shoulder a larger part of the common burden, and they have the power and the means to do so. Their permanent presence on the Security Council would therefore significantly strengthen the authority and capabilities of the United Nations as a whole. The question of equitable representation of various geographical regions will also have to be addressed for the sake of the Council’s legitimacy in the eyes of the world at large. All in all, we believe that it is possible to achieve consensus on an expansion to a total number of seats somewhere in the low twenties. This would indeed be a most significant step towards improving the credibility and legitimacy of the United Nations. At least as important however is enhanced transparency and closer coordination between the Security Council and the United Nations membership at large. My own country’s position may illustrate this point. The Kingdom of the Netherlands is de facto the eleventh highest contributor to the budget of the United Nations. We are in tenth position in terms of the numbers of military personnel contributed to peace-keeping operations, yet we are not involved in the Council’s decisions in which the mandates and modalities of these operations are laid down. As in government, there should be no taxation without representation. The members of the Security Council have to remember that they exercise their authority on behalf of the entire membership of the Organization. For that purpose they need the confidence of the General Assembly. The Council can no longer operate as an exclusive club. Therefore the Netherlands is in favour of the creation of a subsidiary organ of the Council, where all aspects of peace- keeping operations could be discussed with major troop contributors. Moreover, we join those who call for systematic and independent reporting and evaluation of peace-keeping operations. The reports should not end up, labelled 'Confidential', in the desks of the United Nations bureaucracy. Those who contribute and the people whom they represent have a rightful claim to this information. On this score as well, the principle of accountability must urgently be introduced in the interest of the overall credibility of the United Nations. Another area with important potential for improving the working of the United Nations system is that of the regional organizations. Together with Germany, the Netherlands has argued for a more active role for the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) as the regional United Nations arrangement for Europe. I strongly believe that the United Nations should apply what the European Union calls subsidiarity. This principle means that the higher level should not deal with matters that can be dealt with satisfactorily at the lower and more specialized level. Responsibility should be exercised as close as possible to the grass roots. European countries should try to solve their own problems in the framework of the CSCE before dropping them into the lap of the United Nations. This, however, remains a matter for voluntary regional cooperation, and in no way detracts from the primary responsibility of the Security Council. In Africa, we see encouraging signs of a development in the same direction. In the framework of the Organization of African Unity, as well as at regional and subregional levels, efforts are being made to develop a regional peace-keeping capacity. These initiatives deserve our wholehearted support. On the other hand, the Netherlands shares the concern of these countries that self-reliance in this domain should not cut them off from assistance and active involvement by the international community through the United Nations. In Rwanda, for instance, African countries are contributing most of the personnel for the operation of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR). Other United Nations Members have provided equipment, logistical and financial support and transportation. The Netherlands has made a contribution in matériel to match the deployment of a peace-keeping contingent by Zambia. This may provide a model for more permanent, structural means of practical cooperation between countries in the region and those outside - a kind of mutual adoption arrangement. Much has been said about the need for an enhanced early-warning capacity. In fact, in most cases the information was available before crises erupted into violence. But, as the former Yugoslavia has demonstrated, early warning is not sufficient if States are 22 not willing and ready to undertake early action once a potential crisis has been identified. A similar remark can be made about the United Nations system of stand-by forces. This is an excellent idea, and the system may serve as a useful database for the United Nations. But it is no guarantee of greater efficiency in all circumstances. In connection with Rwanda, the system was put to the test for the first time. The results of that test were extremely discouraging. None of the countries that had indicated possible contributions were willing to provide troops for rapid deployment. What is the use of an instrument if the political will to use it is lacking? Regrettably, lessons are drawn mostly when it is too late. The human tragedy in Rwanda will always remain a shame for the international community. Collectively, we must acknowledge that we had ample warning of impending disaster and that we could have done more to prevent the genocide. In this context I have been struck by the words of a high-ranking United Nations official: 'A mechanized brigade deployed in Kigali within 7 to 14 days might have stabilized the situation.' If this is true, then the moral dimension of our failure to provide the United Nations with the necessary means becomes all too apparent. If deploying a brigade could have prevented the indiscriminate slaughter of many hundreds of thousands, what prevented us from doing so? Let us face it: the reason for our inaction was neither lack of means nor lack of time. The reason was that, under the circumstances, no Government was prepared to risk the lives of its citizens. The physical danger was considered too high. How can we resolve this dilemma? Hand-wringing will not absolve us from our responsibility in a situation of genocide. Either we act upon our feeling of horror and indignation, or we stop moralizing. If Member States are not in a position to provide the necessary military personnel, will it then not become unavoidable for us to consider the establishment of a full-time, professional, at all times available and rapidly deployable United Nations brigade for this purpose - a 'United Nations Legion' at the disposal of the Security Council? Such a relatively small, international, all-volunteer 'fire brigade' may enable the United Nations to save lives in situations such as Rwanda. Its establishment could help to solve the dilemmas that we, Governments, face when trying to come to grips with the phenomenon of the failed State. Of course, the preferable way to deal with conflicts is by preventing them. In Europe, the discreet activities of the High Commissioner for National Minorities appointed by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, and those of other actors, have undoubtedly played a crucial role in defusing potential crises in the Baltic and other regions. It is a fact of life in politics that solutions and happy endings quietly achieved do not attract the same attention as failures and disasters. Trusted and respected personalities could play a similar role in other regions. As Minister Hurd said last year: for the expense involved in the deployment of one battalion of peace-keepers, the Secretary-General can send a great many personal representatives. I also wish to say a few words about the aftermath of conflicts that could not be prevented: the punishment of those responsible for crimes against humanity. It is of the utmost importance not only that these terrible crimes be condemned by the international community but also that those responsible for these crimes, as well as the actual perpetrators, be prosecuted. Strangely enough, this was done only at the end of the Second World War. But now at last we see the establishment of an international tribunal for crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia and the start of a broad discussion on a future tribunal for Rwanda. Punishment of war criminals and ethnic cleansers is not a matter of revenge. It is a matter of justice and also a matter of deterrence. Impunity encourages future crimes against humanity. We therefore strongly support both tribunals; as well as the early establishment of an international criminal court that will exercise jurisdiction with regard to serious crimes of international concern. With the introduction of a draft statute for such an international criminal court, a major step forward has been made. In closing, let me emphasize my fundamental point: the credibility of the authority exercised by Governments and by the United Nations. In the former Yugoslavia and elsewhere, the world community has failed to stop the breakdown of civil society and the descent into barbarity. Such failures undermine people’s belief in the authority of the United Nations, in the authority of regional organizations, in the authority of Governments, and indeed in public authority as such. The authority of a national Government does not depend only on its own credibility; it also depends on the credibility of the wider international authority in which it participates. Therefore, it is in our own national interest to uphold that wider 23 authority. We can only do this if we provide the United Nations with the tools it needs to face its daunting task. At the outset, I should like, on behalf of the delegation of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, to extend to Mr. Essy my warmest congratulations on his election to the presidency of our Assembly. I am convinced that his wealth of experience in international relations will be for us the best guarantee for the success of our work. Through him, the Assembly has also paid resounding tribute to his country, Côte d’Ivoire, and to one of its illustrious departed sons, the late President Houphouët-Boigny, a great statesman and acknowledged visionary whose wisdom and intelligence made a great contribution to the advent of a world of peace and progress. I wish to join previous speakers in expressing profound gratitude to his predecessor for the effectiveness with which he presided over the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I also take this opportunity to convey to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our Secretary-General, our high esteem and fraternal gratitude for his tireless efforts to reduce pockets of tension and strengthen international peace and security. His devotion and talent reinforce the role of our Organization. These past five years, the world has seen great upheavals that have put an end to the cold war and ideological blocs. Despite the emergence of certain conflicts, the world is on the threshold of a new, more promising era in which dialogue and joint action seem to be prevailing over confrontation. We are one year away from the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations, and in the present circumstances we must think about defining the new missions our Organization has to carry out, in addition to those bestowed on us by history. Even if the goal of a peaceful world society has not yet been reached, it is acknowledged that our Organization has contributed broadly to decolonization and the progressive development of international law. Of the positive results achieved by the United Nations, the definition and promotion of human rights is inarguably the most important. This world forum has made it possible for developing States to make the international community more aware of their difficulties and to express their demands. Thanks to the United Nations, some global problems, such as those of population and environment, have become priority concerns for all nations, small or large, rich or poor. The climate of détente and the easing of tensions in international relations undoubtedly made it possible to resolve the conflict that beset South Africa for so long. The first non-racial, democratic elections held in South Africa, resulting in the election of President Nelson Mandela, are the best evidence of the positive development of law there. My country is particularly 18 pleased to see the Republic of South Africa occupying its seat in our great family. All Africa places its hopes in South Africa, whose leaders have demonstrated wisdom and determination. We earnestly hope South Africa will be able to pass peacefully and harmoniously through its new stage of transition. One of this year’s felicitous events is clearly the concretization of the peace process that started with the Washington agreements between the Palestinians and the Israelis. Their mutual recognition has provided fresh impetus, and it heralds an era of peace in that part of the world, which has for so long been bloodied by war. I take this opportunity to congratulate President Arafat and the Palestinian people on their tireless efforts to give Palestine a sovereign, independent State within internationally recognized boundaries. If peace is to be established in the Middle East, there must be a comprehensive settlement of the differences between the State of Israel and the Arab States of the region. The Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, an Arabic-speaking and French-speaking African State, will spare no effort in sincerely encouraging all the parties concerned to strive for peace. We therefore welcome the agreement reached between the Kingdom of Jordan and Israel. My country has always respected our Organization’s principles, and therefore has always advocated dialogue and concertation in the settlement of conflicts. In that spirit, it endorsed the General Assembly’s recommendations on the question of the Comorian island of Mayotte. Need I recall that in this regrettable dispute, which started 19 years ago, [between the Comoros and France], in 1975, the Comorian authorities have always expressed a willingness to negotiate with France on the legal and practical modalities for the return of the Comorian island of Mayotte to its natural community. Unfortunately, France has always opposed concertation on this issue. Quite the contrary: that great country, an unchallenged defender of human rights, is prolonging its administrative and military presence in Mayotte. It has also undertaken in this part of our small territory reforms and socio-economic development plans whose clear aim is to separate for all time the four sister islands that geography, history, race, religion, language and economy had joined together with ties that were both identical and complementary. For Comorians, faith and dignity have made this problem a cardinal point of our sovereign existence. While we take note of the tangible results of the rebirth of democracy in Eastern Europe, the opening up of Africa to multiparty politics and the easing of tensions between Powers, we cannot be but concerned at the appearance of conflicts that are undermining world stability and equilibrium. The case of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a constant and striking reminder that we still have a long, long way to go on the road to lasting peace. My country calls on the Serb and Bosnian parties to comply with the relevant Security Council resolutions and to accept the plan for territorial division proposed by the Contact Group. Nothing would be more tragic than allowing passion and pride to prevail over reason and take precedence over the lives of thousands of women, children and old people, who are the daily victims of this incomprehensible conflict. We are equally at a loss when we look at the genocide that has ravaged Rwanda. We still wonder how all the macabre events that have torn Rwanda apart could have taken place. Fortunately, peace has been restored and normalization seems to be gaining ground. I take this opportunity to express our deepest gratitude to France for 'Operation Turquoise,' as well as to all the States that supported that operation, for without it Rwanda would have ceased to exist. We express our gratitude to the neighboring States for the very African hospitality they showed in saving the lives of human beings in distress. I urgently appeal to the new Government of Rwanda to spare no effort to bring about national unity, without which the reconstruction of Rwanda cannot be assured. In addition, we salute the courage and determination of the political authorities and the people of Burundi for their avoidance of another tragedy with incalculable consequences. The international community must assist Africa - particularly the Organization of African Unity, which has never remained indifferent to the various conflicts that have embroiled certain Member States - to prevent conflicts and manage them better. It is imperative that we finally wake up to Africa’s economic realities and understand that its instability and destitution are a standing threat to society throughout the world. While we recognize that the world political situation has eased considerably, we must also take note that the international economic situation shows us no glimmer of hope. Political stability will be fragile if there is not a clear improvement in the economic sphere and, in particular, if growth is limited to the wealthy countries. 19 The developing countries are bearing the full brunt of the ill effects of the crisis, in the form of deteriorating terms of trade, rising protectionism, decreasing net flows of external resources and, on top of all that, the debt burden, which nullifies the efforts of the developing countries. The widening gap between wealthy and poor countries reduces the effects of the economic recovery in the industrialized countries in recent years has seemed to be clearly appearing on the horizon. In this context, it is our collective responsibility to combat poverty, famine and destitution in the developing countries. Given the distress of the developing countries and an international economic system in crisis, we must devise a new and constructive vision, one capable of restructuring the world economy while reflecting the interests of both parties within the framework of sincere cooperation. We place our hopes in a renewed United Nations that will take concrete action to establish more balanced international economic relations. In the opinion of my country, the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros, cooperation between North and South is vital to the balance of the world economy. The Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros also believes that cooperation between the countries of the South is imperative; indeed, we have made cooperation with the developing countries an essential element in our relations. For us, the development of South-South cooperation is a bounden duty in order to insure the continuation and strengthening of development assistance. We have chosen a policy of regional solidary and integration as an effective tool for economic and social progress. Our commitment to the Indian Ocean Commission, and our membership in the African Economic Community, as well as our participation in the preferential trade area, ZEP, demonstrate the importance the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros attaches to the General Assembly’s recommendations on the need for the developing countries to cooperate on a regional level in order to better confront their own problems. It is in this spirit that our regional institutions have adopted a strategy aimed, first and foremost, at strengthening trade and industrial cooperation, and at improving transportation, telecommunications and so forth. Since the democratic election of His Excellency Mr. Sáíd Mohamed Djohar to the Supreme Magistrature, the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros has committed itself to working for a democratic, dynamic and open society and to combating corruption, in order to definitively bring about economic and financial recovery. In this effort, the Comorian people adopted a new constitution and, last December, democratically elected a new Parliament composed of all the country’s main political parties. The Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros understands that international cooperation alone cannot eradicate the evils of underdevelopment. Thus it has signed a programme of structural adjustment with the international financial institutions, with the aim of achieving economic recovery and of improving public finance. It is a trial that the Comorian people is enduring with courage and sacrifice. But the recent devaluation of the Comorian franc has exacerbated the crisis by seriously undermining the Comorians’ purchasing power. In such a difficult socio-economic context, how can one convince starving people and demoralized State workers that democracy brings hope? The measures taken as a result of the structural adjustment programmes do not facilitate the role the public authorities of a country must play in the context of social renewal. While it is true that the easing of international political tension and of certain regional conflicts has reinforced hopes for peace, the gravity of the international economic situation is also creating doubt. The victims of the world crisis are still the same: men, women and children of the African, Asian, Latin American and Caribbean regions. Indeed, the same people are always the ones who are confronted with famine, poverty, natural catastrophes and desertification. Other modern scourges such as fundamentalism, terrorism, epidemics and drug-trafficking have been added to an already hostile socio-economic environment. The harsh reality of the poor countries is accentuated by their exclusion from the decision-making process concerning the international economic situation. As the twentieth century draws to a close, the long- cherished hopes of the third-world peoples are giving way to disappointment. The special session of the General Assembly on economic cooperation, the Paris Conference on the least developed countries, the five years of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and many other programmes and projects that have been drawn up and carried out over the last 20 years have not attained the goals set for them by the General Assembly 20 in the area of development. Specialists in development assistance and economic cooperation are unanimous in finding that the current trend is towards stagnation and even regression. Our General Assembly must now find a solution to the problem created by the failure of international economic relations. We must insist more strongly on our sense of solidarity and shared responsibility. My country has always advocated strengthening the role of the United Nations in all areas of international relations. But it also believes that the structures of the United Nations system must correspond to the new world scene. We are among those who believe that the victors of the Second World War do not have a monopoly on the maintenance of peace and on the socio-economic development of nations. The General Assembly must be the central body where the relevant decisions of our Organization are taken. It is difficult to understand why there is no connection between the political determination expressed here by States, the essential components of the protagonists of international life, and the international financial institutions. On behalf of His Excellency Mr. Sáíd Mohamed Djohar, President of the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros, and on behalf of the Government and the people of the Comoros, I should like from this rostrum to make a solemn appeal to the international community to provide effective support to the Comorian people in its efforts at socio-economic recovery and in its irreversible commitment to democracy. I should like to request that the Security Council reconsider the sanctions adopted against Libya, because, as a result of sanctions condemning inadmissible acts, an entire people is being penalized. It is in this spirit that the relevant resolutions adopted by the League of Arab States, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Organization of African Unity should be taken into consideration, so that this fraternal country may enjoy its sovereignty. We welcome the imminent return of President Aristide to Haiti. May the peace-keeping operation there bring stability and security so that Haitians, in their renewed unity, can work together to rebuild a free and prosperous nation. We also extend these wishes to our brothers in Liberia, Somalia and Angola, so that, as in Mozambique, they may resume dialogue and lay down their weapons. We also wish to encourage the Algerian authorities in their efforts at national reconciliation in the greater interest of the Algerian nation. According to several sources, it seems that there has been a significant movement of Iraqi troops towards the Kuwaiti border. We venture to hope that these manoeuvers are intended for a purpose other than aggression against Kuwait. Indeed, our Organization will never accept a repetition of Iraq’s aggression of 1990. It is difficult for us to believe that Iraq has not learned the lessons of that famous, much-covered Gulf war, from which the Iraqi people, the ultimate victims, are still healing their wounds. The aggression against a sovereign State and the attack on its territorial integrity are a clear violation of international law. It is an act that goes against the fundamental principles of the Charter of this Organization. That is why, on behalf of the Government and people of the Comoros and in the name of the sacred principles of Islam, I appeal to the Government and people of Iraq to halt any attempt to invade Kuwait. It is up to the Security Council to use all peaceful means to spare us a second Persian Gulf war. If it does not, mankind will not be able to understand why each time peace seems to be established another war looms. May I conclude by repeating my delegation’s fraternal congratulations to the President of the General Assembly on his election. We are at his complete disposal to assist him in any way in his discharge of that lofty, noble mission. Canada is very pleased, Sir, that you have been elected to the presidency of the Assembly, and it is certain that you will, with tact and efficiency, assume the responsibility of guiding our work. You can count on our full cooperation. The United Nations has always had a special place in Canada’s foreign policy. As I address the Assembly for the first time as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I am reminded of something one of my illustrious predecessors, Lester B. Pearson, said about the United Nations: 'We must cultivate international ideals, develop international policies, strengthen international institutions, above all the United Nations, so that peace and progress can be made secure.' The Government that I represent shares his broad and noble vision of the role and place of the United Nations. In order to face the challenges that await it at the dawn of the twenty-first century, the international community needs, more than ever, a strong, credible multilateral institution equipped with the tools needed to fulfil our expectations. These challenges are the maintenance of peace and international security, as well as development, justice, democracy, human rights and the fight against inequalities. At a time when we are preparing to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, there is no more urgent task than the intensification of our efforts for reform in order to give our Organization the second wind it needs. Let us draw inspiration from the vision and enthusiasm of the people who drafted the Charter of the United Nations 50 years ago. The extensive upheavals that have shaken our planet since the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the cold war can be symbolized in a few images. I am thinking of the moving image of President Nelson Mandela taking the oath of office as democratically elected President of South Africa and the historic handshake between Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and the Palestine Liberation Organization leader, Yasser Arafat. For their people and those in Cambodia, El Salvador - and soon, perhaps, Mozambique and Angola - who have discovered the road to peace, with the help of the United Nations, the future is filled with hope. There is also hope in Haiti, where a courageous people has been subjected for too long to oppression and abject poverty. We shall share their joy when they can finally welcome to his native land President Aristide, a living symbol of nascent democracy. But there are also unbearable images of the victims in the market in Sarajevo and the flood of humanity fleeing the killings in Rwanda. The international community cannot remain indifferent to conflicts that threaten the lives of millions of innocent people and expose them to the worst violations of their most fundamental rights. Recent experience has shown us that only a concerted and determined effort on the part of the international community can solve these problems. It is no easy task. Faced with the problems in Bosnia, Somalia, Rwanda or even Haiti, some people will be tempted to give up and wonder if the United Nations is wrong in trying to resolve essentially internal conflicts that have numerous complex causes. Canada does not share this opinion. We think that, despite these problems, the Security Council is on the right track, even though the steps it has taken have not always proved capable of solving all the problems. Consistent with that belief, we have always made a tangible contribution to United Nations operations, as far as our circumstances permit. 9 The Canadian contribution to peace-keeping operations in the territories of the former Yugoslavia totals more than 2,000 soldiers and civilian police. The Canadian Government decided a few days ago to renew once more the mandate of its troops for a six-month period. Canada has always been convinced that there can be no military solution to the Yugoslavian conflict. It is because we wish to give peace another chance that we have chosen to maintain our contribution to the United Nations Protection Force. We have also responded to the Secretary-General’s appeal for help in the tragedy of Rwanda. For two months ours was the only country providing an air bridge to Kigali. There are 600 Canadian soldiers serving under the United Nations flag, and many Canadian non-governmental organizations have mobilized to provide help to those in distress. We will also be in Haiti, with 600 soldiers and 100 police officers when the time comes to deploy the United Nations peace-keeping force. Our participation is a logical sequel to our numerous efforts of the past three years to restore the democratic process in this country, to which we are attached by language, geographical proximity and the many personal ties between our peoples. The Haitian people can count on Canada’s lasting help as they rebuild their economy. We are also contributing to the Middle East peace process. As the leader of the multilateral Working Group on Refugees, we are tackling with determination that task entrusted to us by the international community. Our objective is to contribute to the construction of a renewed region where, 10 years hence, no one will consider himself or herself a refugee. We are also providing substantial financial assistance to the Palestinian people’s reconstruction projects. We would favourably consider sending peace-keepers if the need should arise, thus carrying on a lengthy tradition of Canadian participation in peace-keeping operations in the region. (spoke in English) The economic and social problems facing the international community often receive less headline attention than the armed conflicts. However, they are every bit as urgent. Hundreds of millions of people around the world continue to be condemned to a life of poverty. For whole sectors of humanity, such basic needs as a proper diet, drinking water, education and medical care are more of a dream than a reality. Certain parts of the developing world are currently experiencing remarkable progress, while others, unfortunately - the African continent in particular - are continuing to struggle. It is estimated that there are an unprecedented 19 million refugees and displaced persons in the world. We are witnessing a massive movement of people that none of our societies is able to manage without the cooperation of the entire international community. The recent Cairo Conference revealed the urgent need for effective measures to cope with the problems of population and development, problems that cannot be resolved without giving full recognition to the essential roles of women. Our ability to translate into reality the concept of sustainable development will have a very direct impact on the daily lives of our fellow citizens. The fishermen of Newfoundland and the Maritime Provinces of Canada are all too familiar with this problem. Their livelihood has disappeared, through the plundering of fish stocks in international waters off our shores. This is why we believe an agreement must be reached without delay on fishing on the high seas. We could easily add to the list of pressing problems that I have just mentioned. And no one can challenge the fact that all of these problems - from peace-keeping to development, including the fight against AIDS, drug- trafficking and the protection of human rights and the environment - require a determined, coordinated effort on the part of the international community. A great deal has been done over the past few years to help our multilateral institutions to effectively face these numerous challenges. However, much more needs to be done. Too often, the intervention of the United Nations comes too late, is too slow and is carried out under inadequate conditions. The lack of political will on the part of Member States cannot be blamed on the Secretary-General. On the contrary, I would like to pay special tribute to the Secretary-General and his staff. They have done more and better than anyone should expect from an institution deprived of the most elementary resources, lacking even a solid financial foundation. We must fully assume our responsibilities and give the United Nations the tools required to fulfil its unique 10 mandate successfully. However, it seems that we are unable to take a second look at the habits of the past. We invest too much energy in activities of marginal use and in unimportant quarrels when there is an emergency right under our noses. We waste valuable resources by allowing the numerous institutions and agencies we have created over the years to jealously protect their independence and resist change when circumstances require a pooling of energies. As a result of our extreme reticence to implement administrative reforms, we are handicapping the only institution on which we can depend, when modern and flexible management methods would enable us to respond much more effectively to the needs of the moment. Canada believes that the reforms of the United Nations system must be deepened and accelerated. We must do more and better with the resources at our disposal. Efforts should be concentrated on the following five major priorities, which I would like to bring to your attention. Firstly, we must strengthen the United Nations system’s capacity for preventive action. The United Nations already has a number of tools for detecting potential conflicts, and can use a variety of mechanisms to try to eliminate problems before crises break out. Lack of information is not the problem; what we need is the ability to better analyse this information, to develop appropriate strategies and above all to mobilize energy from all components of the system. In order to act rapidly, the United Nations must be able to count on qualified human resources, available on short notice, to complement its own personnel. This is why Canada has prepared for the Secretary-General an inventory of resource persons suited to missions of good offices or specializing in elections, human rights, the administration of justice and other such fields. At its first summit in January 1992, the Security Council recognized that non-military sources of instability in the economic, social, humanitarian and ecological fields have become threats to international peace and security. Let us recognize once and for all the need to expand the traditional concept of security, and to mobilize all components of the United Nations system to attack conflict at its very roots. We also feel that the preventive capacity of the United Nations system will be strengthened if we make better use of the expertise of those who have direct knowledge of the field. The United Nations Economic and Social Council should periodically hold public hearings, similar to those held last June on the Agenda for Development, with a view to assisting the United Nations to better anticipate problems and to develop strategies for attacking the economic and social causes of conflicts. The findings of its hearings could and should be provided to the Security Council and the Secretary- General so that they can develop appropriate preventive measures. Any strategy for preventing armed conflicts also involves pursuing tangible disarmament objectives. Canada has established two priority objectives for the next few years: nuclear non-proliferation and the control of conventional arms. Nuclear arms control and disarmament are under way: we are continuing negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty to ban nuclear testing for all time. Canada is working in the Conference on Disarmament to secure a mandate for negotiations on a convention to prohibit the production of fissile material for weapons purposes. Together, these treaties will have the effect of constraining and preventing a future nuclear arms race. In 1995 we will have to decide the fate of the world’s nuclear non-proliferation regime; the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is very important for Canada, and we believe that there is only one option: that the NPT must be indefinitely extended. I urge all Governments to support this option, which will allow for the continuation of a crucial instrument in preventing the spread of nuclear-weapon technology and provide new impetus to reduce existing stocks. We must also recognize that, although the threat of nuclear weapons is of prime concern, the ongoing use of conventional weapons is an equally dangerous and very real threat to peace and security. The task of controlling conventional weapons is the responsibility of every Government. Huge sums are being spent each year purchasing such weapons, often to the detriment of services essential to the public, such as education and health care. Those who are more concerned about the size of their military arsenal than about the welfare of their people should no longer expect to receive unconditional international aid. 11 The recently established United Nations Register of Conventional Arms is a start, and I urge Member States to make information available to the Register as Canada has done. More can be done, however. For example, next year we will be reviewing the Convention on certain conventional weapons that deals with land-mines. The abuse of land-mines is responsible for continued suffering and death of civilians long after the fighting has stopped. I welcome the proposal made by President Clinton on Monday to reduce and eventually eliminate the use of anti- personnel land mines. He can count on the support and assistance of the Government of Canada on this useful idea. We must strengthen the Convention by extending its scope to cover internal as well as international conflicts and by insisting on effective verification measures to ensure compliance. We will create a task force in Canada to consider other initiatives that might be taken in the coming months, and I look forward to sharing ideas on this subject with other ministers. Secondly, we must conduct an in-depth review of the United Nations economic and social activities. I think I speak for most members of the Assembly when I express serious concerns regarding what can best be described as the drift of the United Nations in the economic and social sectors. While the debate on the United Nations mandate in the areas of peace and security is lively and productive, it is unfortunately too often vague and directionless when we tackle economic and social problems. We are not saying that everything must be changed - far from it. But certain reforms have already been introduced; to mention but one, we welcome the decision to make the United Nations Development Programme Administrator responsible for system-wide coordination. But at a time when large sectors of international economic activities are beyond the control of States, and when the resources devoted to development and international cooperation are subject to all manner of constraint in all of our countries, we must rethink the role and mandate of all our multilateral institutions, including those of Bretton Woods. These questions will be taken up at next year’s Group of Seven summit, to be held in Halifax, and should be debated as widely as possible within other relevant institutions. Canada is ready to proceed with a comprehensive re- evaluation of its multilateral system as it applies to economic and social issues. If necessary, the relevance of certain institutions must be rethought, and a real solution must be found to the problem of duplication. We expect great things of the next chapter of the Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development. We share to a great extent his visions of development, which encompass all facets of human activity, and particularly its social dimensions. Although the full importance of these dimensions has finally been grasped, they are still poorly integrated in our development strategies. The time has come to translate this vision into new operational priorities and to adapt our institutions and structures to it. The Secretary-General should not hesitate to recommend radical reform if necessary. Together we can restore the relevance and leadership of the United Nations system. We must adapt it to the new realities of an ever-changing world. Thirdly, we must strengthen the rapid-intervention capability of the United Nations. The implementation of a number of the proposals advanced by the Secretary- General in 'An Agenda for Peace' has enabled the United Nations to make great strides in the area of peace- keeping. Last April the Government of Canada took the initiative of inviting the major troop-contributing countries to a meeting in Ottawa to discuss problems associated with political direction, command and control and the training of peace-keeping- operations personnel. In this regard, I am pleased to announce that Canada will soon open a centre for peace-keeping research and training. The centre, to be located on the site of the former military base in Cornwallis, Nova Scotia, will be named after Lester B. Pearson, Canadian recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize. I invite Member States to come and join us so they can share our experience and help fine- tune our future approach. The experience of the last few years leads us to believe that we need to explore even more innovative options than those considered to date. Recent peace- keeping missions have demonstrated the limitations of the traditional approach. As we now fully realize, rapid deployment of intervention forces is essential. In the light of the prevailing situation, the Government of Canada has decided to conduct an in- depth review of the short-, medium- and long-term options available to us to strengthen the rapid-response capability of the United Nations in times of crisis. From among these options, we feel that the time has come to study the possibility, over the long term, of creating a 12 permanent United Nations military force. We will ask the world’s leading experts for their input and will inform all Member States of the results of the study. (spoke in French) Fourthly, we must improve the functioning of United Nations decision-making bodies. The Security Council currently bears enormous responsibilities. Its decisions are binding on all Member States and have a determining influence on millions of people. It is essential that the Council be able to reflect as accurately as possible the wishes of the entire international community. For this reason, it is imperative that the composition of the Council be reviewed. By making the Council more representative of today’s world, we can enhance the legitimacy of its actions and facilitate their implementation. Canada will continue to play an active role in the negotiations launched during the last session of the General Assembly, with a view to concluding an agreement as soon as possible. However, an expanded Council must not be seen as a panacea. As we have said on a number of occasions, the Council must make its working methods more transparent and become more receptive to the viewpoints of non- member States with special concerns. More specifically, Canada has advocated closer dialogue between the Council and troop-contributing countries. The informal practices developed in recent years are a good start, but in our view we must look for practical ways to institutionalize them. We ask the members of the Council to keep an open mind in this regard. Finally, we must put the United Nations on a sound financial footing. It goes without saying that the United Nations can fulfil the mandates we give it only to the extent that Member States meet their financial obligations and contribute generously to its voluntary funds. The sums in question are no doubt modest when compared with those invested elsewhere, but they represent none the less a burden that is already significant and growing larger at a time when many of our countries, Canada most definitely included, are going through a difficult period of budgetary adjustment. Our taxpayers do not question the need to contribute to the United Nations, but they are entitled to expect that their contributions will be spent judiciously. That is why we attach such great importance to the need for sound management of the system’s resources. The recent creation of the new position of inspector general should help tighten controls and improve administrative practices. There is also a need to review budgetary procedures in order to make them more transparent and to simplify those that govern peace-keeping operations. Reviewing the scale of assessments is always a perilous undertaking, but I believe the need to do so has become urgent. The current system suffers from serious distortions and no longer reflects properly Member States’ ability to pay. We hope the General Assembly will make this a priority issue at the current session. In the final analysis, the future of the United Nations depends on the willingness of its Member States to lend it political and practical support. This support depends in turn on the degree of support the Organization receives from our respective citizenries. It is not only Member States’ credibility that is at stake, but, even more important, that of the United Nations. Governments must strive to work together and in cooperation with private enterprise and non-governmental organizations to define our new vision of the United Nations for the next century. This is, in part, why the Canadian Government has provided support to the Canadian Committee for the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations. That Committee, which brings together leaders from all sectors, has prepared a remarkable programme of activities to commemorate the anniversary everywhere in our country. The emphasis is being placed on youth education and the main subjects of the United Nations agenda. Next year at this time, all eyes will be turned towards the General Assembly. Let us make that anniversary the beginning of a new era for the United Nations. May I congratulate Foreign Minister Essy of Côte d’Ivoire on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I am confident that he will steer our work to a successful conclusion, and I pledge him the full support of my delegation. I wish also to take this opportunity to express my Government’s satisfaction that South Africa, which now takes its place as a full and respected member of the community of nations, has been reinstated in the General Assembly. It is a much-vaunted truth that the end of the cold war has released the United Nations from the bondage of a world obsessed with military security. But there is another change at work - perhaps less abrupt but equally epoch-making - in the international system which has far- reaching implications for our world Organization. I refer to the progressive intertwining of the destinies of the different peoples of the world, the globalization of the world economy, the communications revolution and the increasingly transnational nature of the issues of human survival, be they environmental problems, poverty, refugees or population pressures, and the eroding capacity of the nation-State to address them single-handedly. Global interdependence is causing greater demands to be made on the United Nations than at any previous time. The will to cooperate is gradually replacing the spirit of confrontation throughout the world. At the same time, it is not clear that we have created an organization equal to the task of meeting the host of new demands. Though adept at analysing their sources, we are still inclined to deal with conflicts only after they arise instead of preventing them. The dangers we face may be novel, but the structures we draw on to cope with them derive from a world that has largely vanished from view. Last but not least, we saddle the United Nations with new responsibilities without providing adequate resources to tackle them. In this way, a discrepancy has come about between our expectations of the United Nations and the ability to deliver on them. While our main challenge should be to seek to transform the United Nations into a more effective instrument for dealing with issues that truly are beyond the compass of the nation-State, we should also bear in mind that the United Nations was not designed to be a substitute for national Governments. Wherever possible the United Nations should work with its Member States in areas where they are competent and draw to the maximum extent possible on regional organizations. In so doing, we reduce the burden on the United Nations and facilitate the setting of priorities. Looked at in this perspective, a number of developments over the past 12 months give the United Nations reason for encouragement. Democracy and the principles of the free market are making new inroads, and the protection of human rights is gaining momentum in many parts of the world. In Eastern Europe the process of democratic change is now irreversible. The negotiated withdrawal of Russian troops from the Baltic States has removed from the European continent one of the last vestiges of the cold war. In Northern Ireland there is for the first time since early this century a realistic chance of lasting peace and stability. In the Middle East the breakthrough achieved last year has been consolidated with the Gaza-Jericho Agreement and a peace accord between Israel and Jordan, hopefully paving the way for a comprehensive peace settlement in the entire region. 18 In South Africa, the spirit of dialogue has finally triumphed over the forces of hatred and racism, offering a model of tolerance for other countries on the troubled African continent. In Western Sahara, there are brightening prospects, provided that all the relevant parties do their part in creating the necessary climate of confidence to enable the people of Western Sahara to decide their own destiny in a democratic election. But there have also been setbacks. Gross violations of human rights have continued in places as far apart as Haiti and East Timor. The tragic injustice in the former Yugoslavia, the chaos in Somalia, as well as the terrible carnage inflicted on the people of Rwanda by their own compatriots, demonstrate the intractable nature of many of the conflicts that our Organization is being called upon to deal with. Unlike the inter-State conflicts which traditionally have preoccupied the United Nations, these are conflicts taking place within the confines of the nation- State, where legitimate authority has either collapsed or been emaciated by civil strife. As the Organization adapts itself to the new demands of the post-cold-war era, ways must be found to address such internal crises in full conformity with the United Nations Charter. To heed this call, greater attention must now be concentrated on the preventive dimension. Much effort has in recent years been devoted to peace-keeping, which now extends to non-military operations, including electoral assistance, the provision of humanitarian relief and human rights monitoring. This is as it should be, and countries contributing substantially to such peace-keeping operations certainly deserve both our gratitude and respect. At the same time, we must make sure that the necessary resources are also allocated to development. One of the lessons we have learned in recent years is that we must focus more intently on the link between peace and development. Increasingly, we have come to understand that peace and security require solutions to social and economic problems, that without development there can be no peace. In this connection, I wish to pay special tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose agenda for development, submitted two years after his pathbreaking Agenda for Peace, has sharpened our awareness of the need for creating an infrastructure of peace. For there to be a stable and lasting infrastructure of peace, a number of elements must be in place: a commitment to democracy and respect for human rights, a sound social fabric, a growing economy and a sustainable natural environment. As a representative of one of the world’s oldest democracies — one which celebrates the fiftieth anniversary of its second republic this year — I cannot be accused of underrating the redeeming virtues of democracy, which, as was pointed out earlier in this debate, fosters the greatest force behind social and economic progress: individual creativity. Democracies, as a rule, also tend to honour human rights. By promoting tolerance and respect for the dignity of the individual, we contribute to preventing cultural, ethnic and territorial conflicts. For good reason, human rights are therefore increasingly being considered as an integral part of the notion of extended security. It is thus to be regretted that the efforts of the United Nations in this important field continue to be strained due to lack of financial resources. The effective implementation and monitoring of human rights standards, not least with respect to vulnerable groups, should be a matter of priority for the United Nations. The plight of children in some parts of the world gives cause for grave concern. Four years ago, the largest gathering of world political leaders assembled here in this Hall of the General Assembly and endorsed the principle that children should have the first call on the resources of society essential to their survival, protection and development. Next year we will assess how far we have come in honouring the commitments undertaken by the Summit for Children. At the same time we will be celebrating the half-centenary of the United Nations. In the view of my Government, this milestone event should be used to give new impetus to efforts to ensure that children are given the best social conditions the world community can offer. As it happens, the fiftieth anniversary celebrations will coincide with the Beijing Conference on the status of women. The timing is significant as the goals of achieving equality, empowerment and security for women are key to the social agenda of the United Nations as it makes the transition into its second half-century. Improving the status of women is of paramount importance for the well-being of the family, and has positive multiplier effects on overall levels of education, health and population growth in society as a whole. Conversely, where society has broken down or social safety-nets are inadequate, women assume the largest burden. There is therefore a direct link between the 19 Fourth World Conference on Women, the recent International Conference on Population and Development held in Cairo and the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen next spring. The Copenhagen summit will afford us a much needed opportunity to focus attention on the social ills that compromise the ability of nations to develop their full potential, be they poverty or disease, homelessness or hunger, joblessness or social exclusion, crime or violence. Fifty years after the United Nations avowed in its Charter to promote social progress and better standards of living in greater freedom, the time has come to put sustainable human development at the top of the Organization’s agenda. In relieving the plight of the most underprivileged segments of the world’s population, the role of economic growth can hardly be overstated. The abolition of trade barriers is the single most important factor for world economic growth. Just as a rising tide lifts the boats, so an increase in world trade will create new jobs and raise incomes around the world. My Government therefore strongly welcomes the establishment of the World Trade Organization and urges other signatory States to ratify the Uruguay-Round Agreement without undue delay. Focusing on economic progress must not, however, blind us to the need to keep an eye on other areas, which, if neglected, might strip us of the harvest of increased prosperity. One such area is the environment. Over the past few years the United Nations has made significant headway in its efforts to promote sustainable development worldwide. The results of the Rio Conference on Environment and development provide a sound basis for further work. As we now assume the momentous task of development, measures must also be taken to protect the environment from detrimental patterns of production and consumption. While recognizing the need to take a balanced view of the ecosystem as a whole, Iceland remains particularly concerned over the deteriorating condition of the world’s oceans. It is a hopeful sign that the international community has shown increasing awareness of the importance of the sustainable utilization of the living resources of the sea. It has been estimated that the poorest two-thirds of the world’s population get about 40 percent of their protein from fish, and that food production must more than double just to keep pace with the growth in demand in the decades ahead. To meet this growth, it will be necessary to rely not only on agriculture but also - and to an increasing extent - on the sustainable utilization of the living resources of the sea. Such considerations notwithstanding, the ecosystem of the sea is now in greater danger than ever before from pollution and overfishing. Protecting the oceans against the repercussions of economic and industrial expansion will pose a major challenge to the international community in the years ahead. Although much has been accomplished, existing conventions aimed at containing the pollution of the marine environment cover only a part of the problem, as no global scheme addressing pollution from land-based activities is in place. For this reason, Iceland attaches great importance to the Conference on the Protection of the Marine Environment from Land-based Activities, to be convened in Washington next year under the auspices of the United Nations Environment Programme. We urge all States and relevant international agencies to participate actively in the preparatory process, commencing officially in Reykjavik in March next year. The responsible use of fisheries resources is, however, no less important than combatting the threat of marine pollution. The universal acceptance of the sovereignty of the coastal State over its adjacent waters was a necessary precondition of the effective management by the world community of the living resources of the sea. The application of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which extended the rule of law to over two thirds of the Earth’s surface, has contributed more than any single undertaking to the furtherance of that goal. Against this background, Iceland particularly welcomes the fact that this Convention, a crowning achievement in the progressive development of international law under the auspices of the United Nations, will come into force in only a few weeks’ time. My country remains strongly committed to the establishment of an international regime governing all aspects of the utilization of living marine resources, including the high seas. For this reason, Iceland has actively supported the drafting of a legally binding and comprehensive instrument that would ensure the effective management and conservation of fisheries outside the economic zone of the coastal State. In Iceland’s view, this goal could best be achieved by establishing regional fisheries management organizations or arrangements open to States with legitimate interests in the relevant fisheries. Such provisions should not, however, be understood as implying approval of existing forms of cooperation based, in some instances, on unilateral decisions by a few States 20 aimed at excluding other neighbouring States, notwithstanding the latter’s overwhelming dependence on and proximity to the fisheries in question. Indeed, unjustified discrimination would defeat the very aim of establishing a new high seas fisheries regime for the benefit of all nations. The global challenge of development calls for bold new thinking, backed by the solid commitment of the international community to the goals enshrined in the United Nations Charter. It also demands that we try to establish consensus on the restructuring and reform of our Organization in the near future. Efforts must be made to improve the representational capacity and efficiency of the Security Council and at the same time preserve the constitutional balance between the various organs of the Organization, not least between the Council and the General Assembly. We find ourselves on the threshold of a new era. Yet, we are far from having rid ourselves completely of the legacy of the cold war, which includes immense quantities of armaments and the technology for producing them. It would certainly be disastrous if the recent transformation of the international security environment were to be undermined by the growing proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In this connection, my Government deems it of the utmost importance that the Convention on chemical weapons enter into force next year and that the Convention on Biological Weapons be further reinforced. In addition, the indefinite and unconditional extension of the non-proliferation Treaty would be the single most significant measure against the proliferation of nuclear weapons. This should be followed up by universal adherence to the nuclear-test moratorium and the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty. As we inaugurate the second half-century of the United Nations, what better gift could the community of nations bestow on itself? And in what better way could we make a clean break with the cold war era? First, let me offer you, on behalf of the Government and people of Sri Lanka, warm congratulations to the President on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. We wish him an eminently successful tenure of that high office. Sri Lanka would also wish to express its gratitude to Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana for his exceptionally creative conduct of the work of the crucial forty-eighth session. Our good wishes extend also to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of this Organization, who must contend with increasingly challenging tasks at a time when the United Nations is undergoing major transformation. In Sri Lanka, the winds of change are blowing. In our country, we stand on the threshold of a new era of tolerance and peace, ending dissension. In August this year, the Peoples’ Alliance was voted into office, after 17 years in opposition, in a parliamentary general election that was internationally acclaimed as both free and fair. At this election - Sri Lanka’s ninth since independence - the people voted overwhelmingly, reaffirming their faith in parliamentary democracy, in fundamental freedoms and in the rule of law. Of the registered electorate, 76.2 per cent cast their vote, thus maintaining Sri Lanka’s long tradition of high political consciousness and model election procedures. What happened on 16 August in my country was more than the routine exercise of the ballot to change a government. In an election atmosphere in which conflicting views were given full rein, the Sri Lanka voter remained mature, calm and solidly entrenched in our cultural and democratic values. The result of the poll was therefore a victory for moderation, tolerance and unity. In my first speech one month ago in our newly elected Parliament, I, as a representative of the minority Tamil community, made a statement that I shall now repeat here, in this supreme parliament of the peoples of the world: 'Let it never be said, if it could ever have been said, that the Sinhala people are racists. They are not. They are absolutely not, and I think this election has demonstrated so handsomely that that particular argument can be laid to rest for ever.' Under the leadership of the new Prime Minister, Mrs. Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, a peaceful transition of power has been effected, defying the cynical predictions of some. Our nation’s rich and diverse cultural heritage, steeped in the great religions of the world and buttressed by a unique foundation of five legal 23 systems, has made this triumph of democratic expression possible. Sri Lanka’s new Government reflects the multi-ethnic, multi-religious fabric of its society. In Parliament, the Government has the support of a number of political parties, including those of the Tamil and Muslim communities. It is, therefore, well poised to bring an end to the conflict in the north-east part of the country through political negotiations, as mandated by the people. Prime Minister Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, in her first address to the nation on assuming office, stated: 'We extend a hand of friendship to the people of the north-east and hope that their leaders would take it in the same spirit that we have extended it.' The relaxation of the ban on certain essential items going to conflict areas and the reciprocal release of policemen held by the secessionist movement are hopeful signs of peace in our land. The all-island state of emergency has been lifted and reintroduced only in the conflict areas. Our Government will pursue with determination its quest for peace in our land - a just and stable peace, acceptable to all our people - undeterred by any set-backs that might be encountered in pursuit of its goal. I seek the indulgence of this Assembly for having dwelt on recent developments in my country at some length. I did so because, at a time when in some parts of the world the ugly tide of intolerance is rising, we in Sri Lanka are proud that we have witnessed a vindication of the values of tolerance and principled conduct over the forces of narrow sectarianism and opportunism. Our recent experience might fortify the efforts to banish prejudice and rancour among other peoples elsewhere. On the international scene, there have been shining examples of prolonged and bitter confrontation being dispelled through dialogue and negotiation. Thus, we welcome wholeheartedly the end of apartheid and the establishment of a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa under the inspired, and inspiring, leadership of President Mandela. We also welcome the positive developments in Palestine subsequent to the recent agreements between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel, and between Jordan and Israel, while expressing our concern over those issues that still remain unsettled. On the other hand, to our deep regret Bosnia and Herzegovina is still mired in bloodshed and violence and the humanitarian crisis in Rwanda has not abated. We reiterate our hope that the intense suffering and dislocation in those countries can be halted through negotiated settlement between the parties concerned and politically disinterested efforts by the international community. Sri Lanka’s strong and positive identification with the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries began in Belgrade in 1961, when Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike was Prime Minister. She was Head of Government when Sri Lanka hosted the historic summit of the non-aligned countries in 1976. Our membership of this Movement, then as now, derives from our deep conviction that its principles empower the dispossessed of this world, giving them dignity and hope for justice. The collapse of the bipolarism imposed on the post-Second-World-War international scene is thus no reason for non-alignment to lie passive. At the Non-Aligned Ministerial Conference in Cairo we were proud to welcome South Africa as the one hundred and tenth member of the Movement. It is significant that this great nation emerging from the long, dark night of apartheid has chosen to adopt the principles of non-alignment. Cynics have predicted that the Movement will sooner or later join the rubble of the Berlin Wall. In our view, the end of the cold war does not negate the rationale of non-alignment. On the contrary, it vindicates the fundamental non-aligned principle that military confrontation can never promote security, stability nor peace among nations. Principles are indestructible: people who believe in them are indomitable. There seemed a unique opportunity at the end of the cold war for the world to achieve its long pursued objective of general and complete disarmament under effective verification, especially in the crucial area of nuclear weapons. However, competing efforts by some to maintain a monopoly on nuclear weapons and by others to break it frustrate our quest for nuclear disarmament. Sri Lanka is deeply conscious of the serious responsibility we undertake in presiding over the 1995 on the Non-Proliferation Treaty Conference. It is imperative that our advance towards a nuclear-weapon-free world make substantial progress. To that end, work in the Conference on Disarmament towards a comprehensive 24 test-ban treaty is encouraging, though we must remain vigilant over any attempts to delay the conclusion of the treaty. In other areas of disarmament, Sri Lanka recently ratified the chemical weapons Convention, which we hope will come into force next year. As we see the end of the nuclear arms race, we do not want to have it replaced by regional arms races, whether to acquire nuclear-weapon capability or to achieve greater sophistication in conventional weapons. The United Nations arms Register is but a step on a long road towards transparency and confidence building, eliminating the arms bazaar, with its links to terrorism, drug trafficking and money-laundering. Throughout the course of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, which spanned a decade, Sri Lanka played a constructive and creative role. The pioneering role played by the late Ambassador Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe of Sri Lanka, President of the Law of the Sea Conference and a former President of this Assembly, is part of the history of this unique endeavour. Sri Lanka has ratified the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which has now entered into force, and has signed the Agreement relating to implementation of Part Xl of the Convention. This represents our continuing commitment to the creation of a new legal regime of the oceans. Sri Lanka looks forward to participating in the historic inaugural session of the International Sea-Bed Authority in Jamaica. The Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean, taking into account emerging realities, has developed a fresh basis for a pragmatic, forward-looking approach to peace, security and stability in the Indian Ocean area. We call upon the countries concerned, particularly the permanent Members of the Security Council and other major maritime users of the Indian Ocean, to enter into a serious and productive dialogue for a new partnership in the context of the Committee. As the Law of the Sea Convention enters into force, greater support needs to be extended to regional initiatives, such as the Indian Ocean Marine Affairs Cooperation (IOMAC), promoting cooperation between the developed and developing countries. As the United Nations approaches its fiftieth anniversary, there is increasing, and more extensive, resort to multilateral action through the Organization. The Security Council is finally playing the role - and sometimes goes beyond the role - originally envisaged for it under the Charter. Yet we must continue to reiterate that foresight and careful assessment are vital in the preparation for any Council intervention, and that such action should be pursued only with the consent and cooperation of the States concerned. Furthermore, it is important to emphasize that the Security Council acts on behalf of the general membership of the United Nations. Unless its actions are based on the widest possible support, Council decisions will not be universally respected nor be truly effective. In this context, Sri Lanka is of the view that Council membership should be increased to provide for wider representation, including representation of developing countries. Sri Lanka was honoured to co-chair the Working Group on the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly, including the strengthening of the nexus between the Assembly and the Security Council. We believe the approach we have taken to enhance transparency and encourage democratic practices is one which is shared by the vast majority of developing countries. We feel this process should be moved forward. It was in this context that in 1993 Sri Lanka announced its candidature for the 1996-1997 non- permanent Asian seat in the Security Council, which by practice of orderly rotation is due to the South Asian sub-region. Sri Lanka is particularly conscious of its identity as a small State, vulnerable to the ebb and flow of international tides, both political and economic. Yet we have not hesitated to take principled stands when we must. Nor will we shirk our responsibility to act in solidarity with other developing countries. We share their problems and concerns. Sri Lanka is geopolitically and culturally an Asian country. We rejoice over the fact that our continent, after centuries of dependence, is once more resurgent, politically stable and economically vibrant. This has been achieved largely through self-reliance, indigenous entrepreneurship and the Asian value systems. As we move at the global level to greater interdependence and interaction, Sri Lanka will remain firmly focused on the Asian experience and its Asian context. We will spare no effort to develop and strengthen our ties with our Asian neighbours. An express commitment to pursue the interests we share with the family of Asian nations will 25 be a new, strong thrust in the foreign policy of our Government. It is in that same spirit that we participated in the launching of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). We are encouraged by the positive developments in SAARC as it journeys into the twenty-first century, propelled by two important trends in the region: democratization and the adoption of market-friendly economic policies. Understanding among the peoples of the region is increasing. Contacts between professional bodies in the region have rapidly gathered momentum. As a region severely affected by poverty, we in South Asia have already taken steps to share our experiences and work out common approaches including the SAARC commitment to eradicate poverty by the year 2002. Absolute poverty, hunger, disease and illiteracy stalk one fifth of the world’s population. We trust that the 1995 World Social Summit and the Agenda for Development will effectively address these issues and mobilize essential resources to back commitments to eradicate poverty, provide employment and promote social cohesion before the end of this century. Our development experience has taught us the importance of alleviating the poverty of the poorest and of maintaining social equity with economic growth. Sri Lanka’s favourable social indicators are the result of a consistent bipartisan commitment over the years to the maintenance of a high level of social expenditure. A number of income-transfer measures are in place. These are indispensable to protection of the vulnerable segments of the population during a period of structural adjustment aimed at accelerating economic growth. My Prime Minister has made a clear statement on economic policy, in which he indicates the Government’s firm resolve to build a strong national economy within a market framework, with the principal engine of growth expected to be the private sector, both domestic and foreign. We are particularly mindful of the need to pay attention to our youth. In 1995, when we shall celebrate the tenth anniversary of the International Youth Year, it would be timely to focus on the achievements of the decade and on further imperatives to advance the prospects for youth. The former Prime Minister of Sri Lanka took the initiative, at the Commonwealth summit in Cyprus, to focus special attention on youth issues. Subsequently, the non- aligned countries, at the ministerial meeting held in Cairo, supported the proposal to convene, at the highest political level, a special plenary meeting of this Assembly devoted to youth affairs, as part of the fiftieth anniversary celebrations. I must also stress my Government’s commitment to the provision of a transparent system for the promotion and protection of human rights in the context of a truly vital democracy. During our recent election campaign we promised our people that we would, as a matter of the highest priority, take steps to establish where necessary, and strengthen where possible, a legislative framework to promote and protect the full enjoyment of human rights. Within five weeks of assuming office we have prepared, for submission to Parliament, legislation to give effect to the Convention against torture. Before the end of this year, legislation will be introduced for the establishment of a national human rights commission. This commission will have judicial and investigative powers and will be totally independent of the executive. In addition, I have appointed, from among persons active in work for human rights through independent, non-governmental organizations, six outstanding national experts with international credentials to assist me with their knowledge and views. They serve in an individual capacity and on an honorary basis. Their appointment in no way precludes them from continuing to engage in their public campaigning for human rights, including comment on or criticism of governmental performance in this area. Their appointment is further evidence of my Government’s firm commitment to the conduct of open and transparent government. At the international level, we are of the view that human rights should not become an arena for North-South confrontation and that no country should be singled out for hostile attention on grounds other than genuine concern for the human rights of its citizens. The scrutiny of a country’s human-rights record must be guided by principles of impartiality and objectivity. Such scrutiny must be motivated by a spirit of genuine concern, dialogue and cooperation. In this connection, we wish to felicitate the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Ambassador Ayala Lasso, on his efforts to foster a cooperative, rather than a coercive, framework for the promotion of human rights world wide. Sri Lanka is disappointed that, on the international economic scene, developing countries continue to suffer from inadequate access to trade and technology, from low 26 commodity prices and from excessive debt burdens. Financial flows for development have severely contracted. The economic disparities between the developed and the developing worlds continue to widen. The Charter of the United Nations rests on two main pillars: the maintenance of international peace and security, and international cooperation for socio-economic development. The United Nations must therefore at all times proceed with equal commitment on both these fronts - politico-security and socio-economic development. Nor must it be forgotten that economic inequalities and underdevelopment are at the root of phenomena such as massive refugee flows and even ethnic and other conflicts. We reiterate the non-aligned countries’ call for renewal of the North-South dialogue on the basis of mutual interests and interdependence. In this era of global transition, the need for a favourable international environment is imperative. Many developing countries are embarking upon structural-adjustment programmes, at considerable cost, yet these policies will be successful only to the extent that there is a genuine commitment to free- trade policies at the international level without extraneous conditionalities. Today - 26 September - Sri Lanka commemorates the thirty-fifth anniversary of the death of Mr. S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike, former Prime Minister of Sri Lanka. He was succeeded by Madam Sirimavo Bandaranaike, the world’s first woman Prime Minister. Now - thirty-eight years later - their daughter, Ms. Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, has become Prime Minister. What is remarkable is that each of them was elected to office by the free vote of the people in keenly fought elections. Each of them succeeded, by wholly democratic means, in unseating a strong Government. In 1956, in this Hall, Prime Minister S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike referred to the unconquered, unconquerable human spirit as the 'one golden thread' passing through the 'dark fabric of human history'. He said: 'I look upon the United Nations as the one machine available to mankind today through which it can express this unconquerable spirit of man in its efforts to achieve ... peace, friendship and collaboration'. (Official Records of the General Assembly, Eleventh Session, 590th meeting, p. 235, para. 41) That remains our view of the United Nations today. We collectively articulate a global social contract between the Governments and the peoples of this world whom we represent. The success of a global social contract rests on how individual States keep the people’s faith through good governance, the maintenance of human rights, equity and justice, and the provision of opportunities to enhance the quality of life. In Sri Lanka’s national context this involves political pluralism and makes of politics the discharge of a public trust where decision-making is open, transparent and based on the widest possible extent of acceptance. Everyone in public life is accountable for his or her actions. My Prime Minister expressed it in these words: 'This is a beautiful but difficult dream, which we shall strive to realize.' It is this vision that must concomitantly inspire the conduct of relations between States. Only then will the United Nations truly be 'a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations'. I am honoured to convey the greetings of President Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada and of the people of Bolivia to the Heads of State and Government in attendance at this the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly; to the Foreign Ministers; to the President of the General Assembly, Mr. Amara Essy, and to his predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, as well as to our dear friend Vice-President Sergio Abreu; to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali; and to the whole of the international community, so worthily represented here. As the highest forum of the peoples of the Earth, this noble Assembly constitutes the ideal setting to reflect on and debate the issues of our day. Bolivia is striving to enter the twenty-first century while bringing about substantial changes based on the principles of the United Nations Charter. During its first year in office, the Government of President Sánchez de Lozada devoted its efforts to carrying through the reforms needed to make the State an effective instrument for our society’s democratic development, centred on the well-being of our people. Thus, our reforms have been based on the concept of comprehensive development, combining human and economic development, social equity, and sustainable development. Now that Bolivia has thus completed the reform of its political constitution, it is putting into effect changes that will enable it to consolidate democracy and economic development, in conditions of fairness and social justice. My country has embarked on a dynamic policy of participation by the people, a process of educational reform, and a recasting of the shareholding and productive structures of public enterprises through an innovative concept of capitalization. During the second phase of its programme, the Bolivian Government is planning to implement new legal provisions to increase investment and production in order to provide more and better job opportunities, and to find concrete solutions to the problems of poverty and the marginalization of broad sectors of society. It is in this connection, in the context of our Government’s policy, that the participation of the people is of particular significance. On the subject of sustainable development, my country has proposed the holding of a meeting of Presidents of the hemisphere; that meeting is now scheduled for 1996 in Bolivia. The future of our peoples and their material and spiritual well-being can only be the work of their own hands, as they are both the subjects and the objects of development. It is therefore most encouraging that - not only within our country but within the United Nations system as well - there is a conviction that a central role falls to organized participation, both individual and collective, as an essential factor for change in a creative and positive direction. Mechanisms for popular participation will make it possible to imbue the liberty, independence, sovereignty 26 and progress of nations with vitality and social content. It is a matter of appraising the role of all social sectors: workers and entrepreneurs, women, indigenous and rural communities, the marginalized, the young, the elderly, the disabled and all those who have the right and duty to contribute to building a better future. It is with that conviction that the Bolivian Government has contributed actively to the preparatory work for the forthcoming World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen in 1995, and the Fourth World Conference on Women, in Beijing the same year. In that same spirit, the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People will be inaugurated at this session of the General Assembly. My country is confident that the observance of this Decade will be not merely symbolic, but essentially a practical and concrete endeavour in its objectives and its scope. To that end, the meeting of representatives of Latin American and Caribbean Governments, grass-roots peasant organizations and international agencies, held in the Bolivian city of Cochabamba last June, framed a series of recommendations to be included in the strategy of the Decade. Those recommendations have also been brought to the attention of Governments and the United Nations system. We hope to receive a prompt and positive response so that the legitimate claims of indigenous peoples will not be lost in the labyrinths of international bureaucracy or the oblivion of another 500 years of solitude. Resolving age-old problems surely calls for a great capacity to understand the values, customs and ways of life of other cultures. Bolivia hopes that the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People will provide an opportunity for the international community to fully understand the topic of the coca leaf, a form of vegetation traditionally grown in Andean regions. The cultural and medicinal uses of the coca leaf need to be re-evaluated in order to distinguish it clearly from the social problems brought about by the abuse of one of its derivatives in the developed countries, which creates a growing demand associated with an international cycle of crime. Let me take this opportunity to declare formally, once again, that the Government and the people of Bolivia are earnestly and firmly committed to international efforts to find the best-suited mechanisms to guarantee the success of the policies delineated within the framework of the changes recommended in General Assembly resolution 48/12, adopted at the last session. Less than two weeks ago, on an initiative of President Sánchez de Lozada, the most representative organizations of Bolivian society, together with the armed forces and the police, took a historic step when they debated the problems of the coca leaf in a framework of pluralistic participation and cooperation. The main conclusions of that meeting, which I take the liberty of summarizing to this great forum of nations, stressed the urgency of combating drug trafficking through a world- wide strategy of shared responsibility; the need to adopt as a primary goal the fight against the dire poverty affecting over two-thirds of Bolivia’s population; and support for initiatives aimed at the comprehensive development of coca-producing areas. Bolivia is grateful for the international community’s willingness to draw a perfectly clear distinction between the positive aspects of the native coca leaf and the grave harm done by dint of the external demand for cocaine. We trust that this positive attitude will make it possible in the near future to address this problem without prejudice. But the international agenda at the end of the century encompasses other equally complex issues that have recently been brought to light by the end of the cold war, although their roots can be traced back to centuries of accumulated injustice. The Republic of South Africa has given the world invaluable lessons in its struggle against apartheid and for democracy. My country is joyful at the outcome of that process and, on behalf of Bolivia, I welcome President Nelson Mandela to the General Assembly. Deeply moved as well by news of the tragedies in Rwanda and in other regions of the world, Bolivia expresses its solidarity with peoples which, through violence and catastrophe, are showing us what we sow when problems are not resolved in timely fashion, problems such as hunger, poverty, mass migration, the various forms of injustice inherited from colonial times and the plundering and lawless acts carried out even today by Powers large and small against other States. Bolivia welcomes the advances achieved through dialogue in the Middle East, and we trust that in the future dialogue will become the principal instrument in dealing successfully with international disputes and conflicts. The Bolivian people hopes for a just and lasting peace between Israel, Palestine and the Arab peoples. May the deliberations of the General Assembly contribute to consolidating that process. 27 The situations in the former Yugoslavia and in other areas are a direct consequence of actions in the service of misguided geopolitical interests aimed at social and political destabilization of foreign territories, We hope that the senseless repetition of such practices, which have had such woeful effects in Central Europe, Asia and Africa, will not lead to similar disasters in other regions. Furthermore, the Government and the people of Bolivia condemn policies of 'ethnic cleansing' in the strongest terms and call upon the international community to take resolute and clear measures to put an end to those actions and to punish those responsible for them. Latin America stands unconditionally in support of democracy and against the illegal use of military means and force, in accordance with the recent declaration of the presidential summit of the Rio Group, the resolutions of the Organization of American States and of the United Nations and the numerous proclamations of Parliaments and popular organizations from all over the continent. Democracy, of course, cannot be left undefended. Bolivia has had the bitter experience of long dictatorial interruptions in its institutional life. Consequently, Bolivia stands today with the people of Haiti and its legitimate Government, and it supports the immediate return of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and the restoration of the democratic regime. History has shown that peace, justice and respect for the principle of self-determination can be guaranteed only when there are consolidated democratic institutions capable of defending and promoting human rights. Solidarity cannot be left at the rostrum. My country reiterates its willingness to help, within its available means, in the process of restoring Haitian democracy to the extent the legitimate Government of that country deems our help useful. The ending of the cold war must apply also to Latin America and make it possible, through dialogue and understanding among the parties concerned, for Cuba to be reintegrated into the inter-American community. All States of the world must contribute to ensuring peace, brotherhood and the timely solution of problems that are as yet unresolved. To that end, action must be taken to enable peoples to develop, since economic backwardness and its social effects are at the root of the crises and conflicts we face. We therefore attach high priority to the themes of the 'Agenda for Development'. Economic complementarity, the transfer of technology, trade, the opening up of economies, foreign investment and co- operation should be our instruments for strengthening solidarity and friendship among peoples and Governments. In this spirit, Bolivia strongly supports Latin American unity and subregional integration, hemispheric agreements, and any opportunity that may present itself for exchanges between nations. These aims - cooperation and complementarity, friendship and solidarity - must serve as the basis of the new international order. For that reason, the observance of the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the Charter in San Francisco should provide an opportunity to make substantive progress in adapting the United Nations to the new realities and demands of the world community. Governments on all continents must demonstrate the ability to save future generations from the scourge of war. We must make human rights, individual and collective, fully effective. International justice must become possible and be assured, and social progress within the broadest concept of freedom must be promoted. In international relations in the third millennium, law must cease to be the instrument of the stronger, serving to entrench injustices, and must become the sole and effective means of resolving disputes, rectifying the errors and excesses of past generations as often as may be necessary. On the subject of respect for the rules of inter-State relations, Bolivia welcomes the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and welcomes the fact that 1998 is to be the International Year of the Oceans. Convinced that recovering our country’s access to the sea is an inalienable right of Bolivia, the Government of President Sánchez de Lozada is working to secure for the Bolivian people, during the current decade, a real solution to the unjust land-locked situation with which it has had to contend for over 100 years. My country believes in the force of convictions, in the force of international solidarity, in the force and the evolution of law, and in the possibilities of friendly negotiation with a view to overcoming disputes. Democracy must find clear expression in inter-State relations. Participation by countries large and small in 28 the resolution of issues that affect all of them must be equitable and not, as is sometimes the case, mere words. This presupposes, among other things, a change in the organization and composition of the Security Council so that with its permanent and non-permanent members, it will be representative of the realities and requirements of appropriate participation, reflecting the obvious emergence of new centres of power in different parts of the world. It will also be necessary to strengthen the role of the General Assembly and to restore the United Nations its central role in the resolution of the major economic problems of the planet, a task which, for the present, remains the exclusive preserve of the super-Powers. The right to development is an objective necessity, although exercise of the right still seems remote for the vast majority of the world’s population. We must assume an effective commitment to give that right the same priority treatment as is given to the human rights of individuals. If the present generation is unable to defeat growing poverty and secure employment opportunities for the already vast global army of the indigent, it will be impossible to ensure the peace and well-being in the developed regions of the world. Population growth, mass migrations and globalization will take their toll, with a negative effect on the dignity, the peaceful co-existence, and the hopes of all mankind for a better life. Over the centuries, the Andean peoples of Bolivia have wisely been guided by three fundamental rules which, in the Quechua language, are: 'AMA SUA, AMA LLULLA, AMA KHELLA', meaning 'Do not steal, do not be idle, do not lie'. If those three rules were also applied in relations between States and nations today, they would have to be: 'Do not unjustly exploit the fruits of your neighbours’ work. Do not complacently enjoy your splendid life-style amid universal poverty. Do not make promises of solidarity and understanding that you are not prepared to keep.' I feel sure that the ability of all of us to live together would be infinitely enhanced were we to be guided by such rules. It is an honour and a privilege for me to address the Members of this Organization. In doing so, I convey the greetings of the President of the Republic of Burundi, His Excellency Mr. Sylvestre Ntibantunganya, and of the Government and people of Burundi, as well as their good wishes for every success at this session of the General Assembly. I should like also to greet and congratulate His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, on his unanimous election to preside over the General Assembly’s work at this session. Your statesmanlike qualities, developed in the course of a long and rich career as a diplomat, augur well for great success at this forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. Through your impressive election, the General Assembly has once again paid tribute to Africa and to your country, so committed to peace and international cooperation. I assure you that my delegation will give you every support as you strive to fulfil your mandate. My congratulations also go to the other members of the Bureau, who, I feel sure, will spare no effort in their practical support for you in the successful accomplishment of your heavy responsibilities. I should also like warmly to congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Samuel Insanally of the Republic of Guyana, who, as President at the forty-eighth session, guided the work of the Assembly masterfully and with exemplary commitment. Lastly, we pay a warm tribute to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for all the activities he has initiated in order to cope with the many challenges and enormous difficulties facing our Organization today. We believe that these obstacles are not insurmountable provided that there is honest commitment and solidarity on the part of the international community. Thanks to the resolve and perseverance of this Organization, which mobilized the Member States against apartheid, peace and democracy have now triumphed in South Africa. The people and the Government of Burundi have already welcomed this well- deserved victory of the valiant South African people, who have thus resumed their place in the concert of nations. The current session of the General Assembly is being held at a time of many serious and unexpected events. There have been natural disasters throughout the world: famine, civil war, terrorism and other scourges of modern times, such as religious fundamentalism and the re-emergence of exclusionary movements, associations or 14 political parties, all bearing within them the seeds of division. A year ago, from this very rostrum, the late President Melchior Ndadaye conveyed to this Assembly a message of peace, friendship, brotherhood and solidarity. This occurred just after the pluralist elections of June 1993, which the entire world had found to be free and transparent. Then, on 21 October 1993, President Ndadaye was assassinated in a rash and senseless act that plunged Burundi into desolation, division and political and ethnic massacres, and sorely tested the hard-won democracy. Since that fateful day, Burundi has suffered a serious political, institutional, social and economic crisis, the repercussions of which are still being felt today. We all recall the unbearable images broadcast by the international media. Let us further recall that the successor to President Ndadaye, Mr. Cyprien Ntaryamira, died tragically in an airplane accident in Kigali on 6 April 1994, which also took the life of the Rwandese Head of State. Misfortunes never come singly; Burundi had the terrible shock of losing two Presidents in less than six months. This situation has profoundly traumatized the people of Burundi. Some wondered if Burundi would be able to avoid the human cataclysm recently experienced by its neighbour Rwanda. Indeed, the institutional crisis that resulted from the vacuum of power, and the various manifestations of violence that followed, crystallized latent antagonisms, exacerbated latent ethnic divisions and created an atmosphere of suspicion and intolerance that was prejudicial to peace. Despite the dark picture I have just painted, the people of Burundi has not succumbed to despair. Indeed, the registered political parties and the representatives of civil society have met in a negotiating forum and begun in-depth discussions with a view to finding ways and means of ensuring a swift return to peace, security, trust and socio- economic and political stability in the country. The lengthy discussions which began after the death of President Cyprien Ntaryamira last April recently led to the signing on 10 September 1994 of a government convention. This document is a basis for the reestablishment of State institutions and organs of State and of various legal and political mechanisms which will restore trust and cooperation between the political partners. The successful outcome of these lengthy negotiations has allowed the people of Burundi to heave a sigh of relief. The people had begun to tire and above all to question the good faith of politicians who, as far as the people could see, were more concerned with their own selfish interests than in peace and the development for one and all. We take this opportunity to thank the international community for the role it has played in encouraging the people of Burundi to pursue national dialogue and cooperation. We are particularly grateful to the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity for the decisive role they played in ensuring the successful outcome of the negotiations. The Special Representatives of the Secretaries-General of these organizations, Ambassadors Ahmedou Ould Abdallah and Léandre Bassole respectively, participated at every stage of the negotiations we have just concluded. We welcome the progress made together through this preventive diplomacy. We believe that the choice of a consensus President, Mr. Sylvestre Ntibantunganya, the consensus nomination of a Prime Minister from the opposition, and the formation of a coalition Government are all factors conducive to restoring security and confidence among the various elements of Burundi society and to promoting the return of displaced persons and refugees to their homes in the hills. They are also very important in encouraging reconstruction and the economic recovery of the country. The new national coalition government that arose from the consensus reached in the negotiations between the political partners has, as its main tasks, the reconstruction of the economic and social infrastructures that were partly or totally demolished, the campaign against a general sense of impunity, and the establishment of conditions guaranteeing the safety and peace of all in Burundi. The tasks ahead are enormous and cannot be carried out without the solidarity and assistance of the international community on a bilateral and/or multilateral basis. We also take this opportunity to recall the request made by the Government of Burundi for the organization of a neutral international inquiry to establish responsibility for the October 1993 putsch and the ensuing massacres. The international community has always stood by us in times of anguish and we feel sure that it will continue to support our efforts by providing emergency special assistance for economic recovery and reconstruction. We also reiterate our appeal to the United Nations and friendly countries to continue to support the proponents of peace and progress in Burundi and to discourage and condemn all those at home and abroad who may be tempted to use violence to resolve the 15 problems we are experiencing. Today silence means complicity and is criminal. Lasting solutions to Burundi’s political problems can be found only if they are dealt with in a subregional context. For some years now we have been witnessing forced movements of populations following violence perpetrated in some countries of our subregion. These movements, often out of control, are a threat to peace and stability throughout the Great Lakes region. No one can fail to see that the tragedy of Rwanda has shocked human conscience at the subregional, regional and international levels. It is shameful not only for those behind genocide, or those who have committed it, but also for mankind as a whole, which has not been able to rush to the aid of a people in peril. My country hopes that those guilty of this crime against humanity will be brought to justice and receive the punishment they deserve. We encourage the Government of Rwanda to continue its policy of reconciliation and to do its utmost to ensure that all Rwandese refugees can return to their homeland. The crisis in Rwanda has had most regrettable consequences for neighbouring States - above all for Burundi, which has ethnic, linguistic and cultural similarities to Rwanda. The Rwandese tragedy has had political, security, economic, humanitarian and environmental consequences. We need not go into details, because the whole world saw on television the human tide flee fighting to take refuge in neighbouring countries, such as Burundi, Tanzania and Zaire. The refugee problem has been acute in our subregion since the 1960s. As the Assembly knows, it is both a humanitarian and a political problem. It causes discord between neighbouring States and has engendered mistrust between them. Some see refugees as an economic and social burden, while others consider them a threat to their security. For these reasons, we propose that an international conference on peace, stability and development in the African Great Lakes subregion be organized as soon as possible. In the short term, it is a matter of resolving the refugee problem. In the medium term, inter-State mechanisms should be established to safeguard peace, bolster stability and promote socio-economic development. Such a conference could pave the way for the creation of a more viable economic community combining existing organizations, such as the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries and the Kagera River Basin Organization and adapting them better to the realities of our subregion. We believe such a conference would help integrate our States, which share an almost identical history, the same geographical space and, above all, an ability to communicate through common languages. My delegation is willing to make specific proposals on this matter. Next year the United Nations will celebrate half a century of existence. In 50 years the Organization has accomplished a great many tasks. It has overcome many obstacles, survived the cold war and contributed to the advent of international détente. Its specialized agencies have assisted millions of people in distress. The Organization has always committed itself to actions to maintain international peace and security. It has been able to foster friendly relations between nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights of peoples and their right to self-determination. The United Nations has contributed to dialogue between the peoples and States of the world by encouraging relations of cooperation and solidarity. None the less, the Organization, like any human enterprise, is far from perfect. Despite efforts to settle armed conflicts, we must note that the brinksmanship and intransigence of certain belligerents diminish hopes for peace. In Africa, the conflicts in Somalia, Angola and Liberia seem to go on for ever, notwithstanding the efforts of the United Nations to resolve them. With regard to the crisis in Somalia, we know it was the massive intervention of the Blue Helmets that led the parties involved to the negotiating table. The operation inspired some hope that the people of Somalia would achieve reconciliation. Unfortunately, the conflict continues. Burundi believes the United Nations should continue this operation, using all the means authorized by the Charter. At the same time, we call on the parties involved to settle their differences peacefully and to lend every possible assistance to any mediation effort. As to Angola, the political and military situation has continued to deteriorate, with an escalation of the fighting and greater mistrust between the belligerents. While welcoming the resumption of the negotiating process between the Government of Angola and UNITA, my State wishes to repeat its appeal for a cessation of the hostilities that have brought so much suffering to the people of Angola. 16 In Liberia, peace has not yet been restored. There has been delay in full implementation of the Cotonou Agreement - signed on 25 July 1993 by the Interim Government of National Unity, the National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL) and the United Liberation Movement of Liberia for Democracy (ULIMO), under the auspices of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity - aimed at finding a peaceful settlement to the conflict. The Republic of Burundi pays tribute to the efforts made by ECOWAS and the United Nations to bring about a peaceful settlement of that conflict, which continues to bring such grief to the people of Liberia. We also support the United Nations peace plan for Western Sahara, which involves a referendum to allow the Saharan people to choose their own destiny. Africa is today the scene of the largest number of armed conflicts in the world. This political instability means we cannot tackle development in our countries, despite the vast natural resources of our continent. We believe it is high time Africans stopped blaming their misfortunes on outside factors. We firmly believe that Africa must shoulder its responsibilities and define the main lines of its development in accordance with its realities. We must respect our identity while accepting any positive contribution from outside. Burundi has no doubt the time will come when Africa will show its capacity for self-improvement and that it will be able to contribute more to the well-being of mankind. In other words, through the democratic reforms now under way, our continent, which is currently undergoing a period of upheaval, will attain the freedom and development it so desires. My country welcomes the new era opening up in the Middle East. The peoples of that region are finally going to be able to work together for peace, security and development. We pay tribute to all the countries and institutions that contributed to the mediation efforts and encourage them to continue their diplomatic efforts with a view to a final and irreversible settlement of that conflict, which has lasted far too long. The situation in the Balkans is also a matter of concern. Work must continue to reconcile the positions of the various parties. War does not resolve problems of coexistence and good-neighborliness between peoples. On the Korean peninsula, we wish for the voluntary and peaceful reunification of Korea. We also encourage continued negotiations between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America, in the hope that they will remove all uncertainties with regard to the nuclear problem. As the Secretary-General pointed out so aptly in 'An Agenda for Development', there can be no peace without development. And the 1994 World Human Development Report also states: 'The absence of peace can indeed hinder development; but without development, peace is threatened.' Development requires international cooperation and assistance from other States. The Charter sets as one of the purposes of the United Nations: 'to achieve international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character, and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion'. Problems arising from the maintenance of peace and security and those of a humanitarian character, particularly after the cold war, have led the Organization to extend its operations to the four corners of the Earth. Some observers even fear that development activities will be neglected so long as urgent and immediate needs monopolize the Organization. Some go so far as to say that the discussion on development should be shifted from the General Assembly to other, better equipped institutions. In Burundi, we consider that development, and the related problems and needs, must also be one of the priorities of the United Nations. There can be no better place than the General Assembly to deal with problems as global and interconnected as poverty, debt, the environment, development assistance and other equally thorny world-wide issues. On the matter of combating poverty and other social problems, Burundi places great hope in the upcoming World Summit for Social Development, where it intends to be represented at the appropriate level. Our delegation will spare no effort to ensure that the declaration to be adopted at the Copenhagen Summit will correctly reflect the concerns of poor peoples. 17 The external debt problem of the developing countries is also a crisis, and it must be dealt with more innovatively than it has been in the past. Many strategies have been adopted to resolve the problem. Specific actions have been taken by creditors to restructure commercial debt and in some cases to cancel bilateral debt. But as the Secretary- General has pointed out, to date, the efforts made to lighten the burden of multilateral debt have been far from satisfactory. The subject of multilateral debt should thus also be carefully studied. My country hopes that the discussion to be held on the agenda item on debt will result in conclusions that can lighten the burden of multilateral debt, particularly with regard to the fragile economies of the least developed countries. The current situation regarding trade relations is extremely disturbing. The industrialized countries are erecting major barriers to the importation of certain products from developing countries. At the same time, however, the latter countries, under the effect of liberalization policies, are opening wide their doors to foreign competition. According to the most reliable sources, the damage done to developing countries exceeds the amount of aid allotted to them; however, should the rich countries eliminate all obstacles to the importation of products from the third world, the increase in exports from developing countries would equal twice the aid granted to these countries. The conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the creation of the World Trade Organization augur well for a more orderly and equitable system of world trade. We maintain the hope that accompanying measures will be taken to avoid the marginalization of developing countries in the multilateral trade system. We are thinking, in particular, of the least developed countries which run the risk of being poor relations within the new World Trade Organization. For some years, the international community has been aware of the non-sustainable nature of the development and consumption patterns followed thus far, without concern for the protection of the environment. As the Secretary-General emphasizes in 'An Agenda for Development', the environment, like peace, the economy, society and democracy, permeates all aspects of development. In the last few years, the General Assembly has seriously taken up the issues of environment and development. The Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, in June 1992, gave birth to international legal instruments which, if implemented, will ensure a better environment and more harmonious development for the Earth and its inhabitants. My country, Burundi, has already signed these instruments, and it will soon ratify them. Burundi has been closely following the discussion that has been under way for some time at the United Nations with a view to reforming and improving the working methods of the Security Council. The ideas put forward are quite diverse. We earnestly hope that this discussion will lead to a solution that will preserve the effectiveness of the Security Council while allowing the developing countries to have their voices heard within that body. If the democratic reforms desired by our peoples are to be lasting and irreversible, there must be support from the international community, for democracy against a backdrop of social crisis, unemployment, or poverty, could prove illusory. My country places great hope in the United Nations, which alone can contribute to solving mankind’s current problems, such as those of population, the environment, economic and social development and health, particularly at a time when certain countries of the world are shaken by endemic illnesses. We cannot pass over in silence the scourge of our time - AIDS. The international community must pool its efforts to suppress this scourge. We express the hope that the United Nations will continue to pursue the ideals and purposes contained in its Charter. May international relations become more democratic, and a new, more just and equitable, political and economic order emerge. We also hope that, as this century draws to a close, our Organization will be able to achieve tangible results, particularly in removing the spectres of hunger, poverty and war. We all aspire to peace, justice and freedom. In our endeavours, we must succeed in achieving them, in order to give future generations the opportunity to live in a better world. I am honoured to address this forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. First, I wish to congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his election to the presidency, and to say that his experience makes him an excellent choice to ably lead this body to meet the challenges ahead. I also take this opportunity, on behalf of my Government, to congratulate the former President, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, and express our appreciation for his contributions. The same appreciation is extended to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, for his strong and effective leadership, so instrumental in the success of the work accomplished by this Organization. We note with great sympathy the terrible volcanic eruption in Papua New Guinea. We express the hope that this Organization and its Members will take all possible measures to assist in alleviating the suffering and destruction caused by this disaster. We also express our sympathy to the people and the Government of the Republic of Estonia for the recent accident and loss of life in that country. We join the other members of this Assembly in warmly welcoming the new South Africa here. Their struggle was long, arduous and painful. The people and Government of Micronesia share the joy of the Government and people of South Africa at having achieved their objective. My Government welcomes the historic steps taken toward peace in the Middle East and expresses its support for the ongoing bilateral negotiations between the parties in that region. In the light of these positive developments in the peace process, the General Assembly should reflect this new reality in the course of this forty-ninth session and provide an environment conducive to further dialogue between parties. We gather at a time in our history when new grounds of cooperation are being woven into greater dimensions of solidarity. This is fortunate because we also face urgent challenges to the future of our planet. From the point of view of a small developing State, we come to this Assembly with immediate concerns on such issues as climate change, sustainable development, nuclear waste and natural disasters. Linked with all these concerns is the issue of human rights. The road from Vienna, where the world community met only a few hundred miles from where 'ethnic cleansing' was taking place in Bosnia and spoke of improvements in the field of human rights, has been marked with new signposts leading us in the right direction, namely, the establishment of the post of United 27 Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the election of Ambassador Jose Ayala Lasso to that post. However, the scenery along the way is not that much different from what it was for many years before this. Today, the atrocities and violations of human rights that are continuing in Bosnia seem to be even overshadowed by newer outbreaks of human rights violations in such areas as Rwanda, Haiti and other parts of our world. This Assembly must continue to devote its attention and resources to human rights. Several weeks ago at Brisbane, Australia, the Heads of Government of our 15 Pacific States, including the Federated States of Micronesia, held the annual meeting of the South Pacific Forum. As is their practice each year, the leaders discussed matters of common concern within our region and expressed consensus views in a communiqué that has already been presented and included in the records of this Assembly. The Federated States of Micronesia subscribes to the views expressed in that communiqué, and will be guided by it in many of our actions here in the coming months. The South Pacific Forum also decided, at its recent meeting in Brisbane, to seek observer status at the United Nations during this forty-ninth session. In attaining observer status with the United Nations, the South Pacific Forum will address the increasing importance placed on the role of regional organizations and the contributions they can make towards the objectives of the United Nations. We believe that the Forum, as an observer, can increase the effectiveness of our region’s work on such critical issues as climate change, conservation of biological diversity and effective implementation of the results of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. One long-standing major concern of our Government, which is shared by Forum members, is the testing of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction within our region. We are relieved by the continued moratorium on nuclear testing by France and the United States, but we remain deeply concerned at the possible consequences that may flow from China’s insistence on proceeding with its programme. We will not breathe easy until a moratorium on all testing is made permanent, and to that end we hope that rapid progress will be made towards concluding a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. Despite our outspoken concerns in numerous international venues during recent years, the Pacific region’s vastness and seeming emptiness still makes it an attractive location for environmentally unfriendly activities. Too often, when we have attempted as island countries to halt movements through our waters of toxic, radioactive and hazardous materials, our voices have not been heard. As if the dangers of such transport were not bad enough, today we confront an even more repugnant prospect, that of our region becoming a permanent dumping ground for the world’s nuclear waste. I wish to emphasize here that the Federated States of Micronesia is and will remain diametrically opposed to the use of our region by countries which are unwilling to store their waste within their own borders. As part of our dedication to finding more effective means to prevent these outrages, the Federated States of Micronesia has the honour of chairing the ongoing negotiations within the Forum group towards a regional treaty banning transboundary movement of all hazardous wastes. Through these and other appropriate actions, we are determined to see that the Pacific region is treated by the rest of the world community with the same degree of concern for the long-term health and welfare of our people and their environment. We welcome the Secretary-General’s new report on an Agenda for Development. My Government fully supports the call for a re-evaluation of the role of the United Nations in development. As the United Nations approaches its fiftieth anniversary, its global agenda must be redefined to be more comprehensive and more focused. The present lack of coordination between the Bretton Woods institutions and the United Nations must be corrected to synchronize the setting of global policy on development. The end of the cold war has presented the United Nations with a long-overdue opportunity to turn its attention to development. Yet the cost associated with expanded peace-keeping operations around the world is diverting scarce resources at a time when, for many States, the role of the United Nations in development is becomingly increasingly prominent. This is a trend that the United Nations must examine very carefully in order to find the proper balance among all its responsibilities under the Charter. The recently concluded International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo is testimony to the global problems associated with our rapid population growth. The United Nations and the international community face a pressing urgency to redirect resources to address population growth and sustainable resource use. 28 The world’s population is growing faster than ever before with an estimated number of 95 million people being added each year. This unprecedented population growth rate will have a profound effect on our environment. The action plan for population and sustainable development has clear implications for climate change. I wish to draw the distinction that, although the rate of population growth in the industrialized world is slower, these countries still add a disproportionate cost to the environment because residents in industrialized countries add about four times as much carbon to the atmosphere each year as do their counterparts in the developing countries. Micronesia strongly supports the Programme of Action on Population Control and Development endorsed at Cairo and is looking forward to meeting the goals and objectives contained therein. As an island State, my Government welcomes the significant breakthrough and the universal acceptance of the United Nations Convention on the Law of Sea and its imminent entry into force on 16 November 1994. This is the culmination of long and arduous negotiations among countries for more than a decade in shaping what I consider to be a near-perfect management and conservation regime for the high seas and the deep seabed which is the common heritage of mankind. The Federated States of Micronesia is a party to the Convention and I am happy to inform the Assembly that my country was among the many countries which signed the deep seabed mining Agreement relating to the Implementation of Part XI of the Convention after it was opened for signature. We look forward to close cooperation with the international community in the sound management and conservation of the high seas as well as our individual territorial waters. As a developing island State whose economy is dependent on these resources, Micronesia is committed to the promotion of responsible fishing practices - not only within our exclusive economic zone and the zones of our neighbours in the region, but also in the contiguous high seas areas adjacent to the zones. The Federated States of Micronesia has actively participated in all of the substantive sessions of the United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. In the Federated States of Micronesia, we are fortunate that our islands are located in those latitudes of the Pacific Ocean in which 50 per cent of the world’s highest grade tuna resources are located and caught. While we appreciate having this resource, we remain ever mindful of the fact that the continued viability of our economy depends on the rational use of the marine resources present in our waters and beyond. This principle of rational utilization of resources forms the foundation for the concept of sustainable development. It is not only coastal States like my own, which must be dedicated to rational use and responsible fishing practices. Distant water fishing nations must also recognize and protect the fragile balance of nature that exists in the oceans of the world to ensure the sustainability of the resource. During the last session of the Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, my Government’s delegation joined the 15 other States members of the Forum Fisheries Agency in supporting a binding legal document as the form of outcome for the Conference. Even so, we do not support any outcome which would compromise the sovereign rights of coastal States over the living marine resources occurring within their own extended economic zones. We do not support any derogation from the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea that recognize the sovereign rights of coastal States. I now direct my comments to the recently concluded Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in Barbados, which has been a great success in many ways. For the first time in the history of the United Nations, we have been able to put forward an agenda for world attention concerning the sustainable development of small island developing States. The Programme of Action that emerged from that Global Conference is the first post-Rio de Janeiro effort to amplify the principles of Agenda 21 in a specific context pointing towards tangible measures for implementation. While this is a milestone, it will remain little more than a planning document without the genuine commitment of our developing countries around the world. We welcome the recent report of the Secretary- General on actions taken by the Organization and by the bodies of the United Nations system to implement the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. We cannot help but feel a certain impatience to see actions taken that are accompanied by necessary funding; nevertheless my Government applauds the steps being taken to ensure that the results of the Barbados Conference are integrated into the programme of work of the Commission on Sustainable Development. Strong partnership in this regard should be seen not as a conflict between developed and developing countries, but rather as a shared goal and an investment for the benefit of the entire family of 29 nations. A notable and welcome example of such shared effort is the upcoming initiative by the United States to work with all countries towards the revitalization of the essential coral reefs, which are deteriorating all over the world. The Global Environmental Facility (GEF) is one source of funding from which Small Island Developing States could access financial assistance for implementation of the Programme of Action and other related environmental endeavours. The Programme of Action adopted at the Barbados Conference specifically requested that, since such global environmental problems as climate change, biological diversity and international waters are of great significance and concern to small island developing States, the restructured GEF should be seen as an important channel of assistance in these areas through the provision of new and additional resources. At the meeting of Heads of State the South Pacific Forum, which recently concluded in Brisbane, Australia, welcomed the restructuring and replenishment of the GEF and its intention to assist in the implementation of the decisions taken at Barbados. We therefore encourage all Member States, during the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, to give meaning to the concept of sustainable development by supporting the overall outcome of Barbados, including all enabling legislation. This will give the United Nations specialized agencies and organizations the mandate to start implementing the Programme of Action. In the Framework Convention on Climate Change, we appealed for a more constructive approach by the international community, with a view to further commitments towards the reduction of greenhouse gases, as called for by the proposed protocol to the Convention distributed this week to the Parties by the Alliance of Small Island States. Recent scientific reports have confirmed with certainty that global warming is occurring. More importantly, it is also clear that the industrialized countries must make greater cutbacks in emissions than were originally envisioned if there is to be any hope of avoiding disastrous consequences to much of the world - consequences which cynics were scoffing at only a few years ago. We welcomed with hope the coming into being of the climate-change Convention this past March and call upon all Members of the United Nations to be present as Parties when the Conference of the Parties to the Convention convenes in Berlin. In keeping with its concern for the protection and sustainable use of the environment, the Federated States of Micronesia acceded in June to the Convention on Biological Diversity and is looking forward to the first Conference of the Parties this November, in the Bahamas. In this connection, my Government wishes to add its support to the request made at the last session of the Intergovernmental Group in Nairobi that work on a protocol on biosafety should begin without further delay. The question of ownership and access to ex-situ genetic resources not presently covered by the Convention must also be addressed as a matter of priority. The concept of giving equal priority to the environment and to development is now widely accepted but remains in many ways difficult to implement. It will remain so for many years to come, even though all our best thinking is to be devoted to it. Sadly, even as we speak, the quality and stocks of our planet’s natural resources are deteriorating at an accelerated pace due to past and current practices. If we are to succeed in confronting this challenge, the integrated efforts of the entire international community must call upon the assets that all countries - large and small, developed and developing - can bring to bear. For example, sustainable living, which has been the way of island peoples for centuries, involves practices and techniques that are quite relevant to sustainable development in much of today’s world. The canoes sailing across our crystal blue lagoons bring to mind a host of traditions of our people that involve clean use of the environment and highly effective resource- management practices. We must approach sustainable development in a way that respects and builds on the age- old concept of sustainable living and takes full account of the wisdom that can be gleaned from indigenous cultures worldwide. In other words, my country believes that not only is it important to have a common vision to combat climate change and promote sustainable development, but it is now incumbent upon us seriously to rethink our roles and how we can all play a vital part in restoring our environment. As a front-line country in terms of vulnerability, Micronesia recognizes that we cannot retreat into the position of treating global environmental issues only to the extent to which we think we are conveniently capable, without giving due consideration to their urgency and magnitude. Addressing this man-made catastrophe requires many more additional resources and a greater commitment, especially on the part of the developed world. 30 Our views on these issues are clear and simple: we are convinced that all our efforts are mounting up to a long-term investment for the survival and viability of our ecosystem, the common heritage of mankind. In assessing what has transpired so far in all related activities geared to this common objective, I cannot but say how fascinated I am with the enormous effort that has gone into these processes. The activities include the negotiations on the climate-change Convention, the biodiversity Convention, the desertification Convention and the Convention on the Law of the Sea, as well as the Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, the Barbados Conference, the Cairo Conference on Population and Development, the Commission on Sustainable Development and the Global Environmental Facility. I cannot but believe that positive progress will emanate from this massive human energy and commitment, and that our future will be secured with this common vision. We are not only inhabitants of this planet, but custodians of its resources for future generations. I hope that the greed of mankind will not in the end triumph over the our inherent responsibility to leave for future generations an environment that is as habitable as the one we find today. Sustainable utilization of our natural resources may be the greatest gift that our present civilization can contribute to future humanity. It surely must be one of the great ironies of our age that this Assembly is being addressed, for the first time in its 49 years’ history, by a South African Head of State drawn from among the African majority of what is an African country. Future generations will find it strange in the extreme that it was only so late in the twentieth century that it was possible for our delegation to take its seat in the Assembly, recognized both by our people and by the nations of the world as the legitimate representative of the people of our country. It is indeed most welcome that the Organization will mark its fiftieth anniversary next year with the apartheid system vanquished and consigned to the past. That historic change has come about not least because of the great efforts in which the United Nations engaged to ensure the suppression of the apartheid crime against humanity. Even as it was still in the process of establishing its institutions, the United Nations was confronted by the challenge of the accession to power of the party of apartheid domination in our country. Everything that that system stood for represented the very opposite of all the noble purposes for which the Organization was established. Because apartheid reduced and undermined the credibility of the United Nations as an effective international instrument to end racism and secure the fundamental human rights of all peoples, the establishment and consolidation of apartheid constituted a brazen challenge to the very existence of the Organization. 6 General Assembly 14th meeting Forty-ninth session 3 October 1994 The United Nations was born out of the titanic struggle against nazism and fascism, with their pernicious doctrines and practices of racial superiority and genocide. It therefore could not stand by while, in South Africa, a similar system was being established by a Government which also had the temerity to claim representation within the United Nations. We believe that it was indeed of great importance to the universal efficacy of, and respect for, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations Charter that the United Nations should have spurned the pleas of the apartheid regime that the gross violation of human rights in South Africa was a domestic matter of no legal or legitimate concern to the world body. We stand here today to salute the United Nations and its Member States, both singly and collectively, for joining forces with the masses of our people in a common struggle that has brought about our emancipation and pushed back the frontiers of racism. The millions of our people say 'Thank you' and 'Thank you again, because the respect for your own dignity as human beings inspired you to act to ensure the restoration of our dignity as well'. We have together traversed a course which we are convinced has strengthened human solidarity in general and reinforced the bonds of friendship between our peoples and the nations of the world. This dates back to the early days when India put the question of racism in South Africa on the Assembly’s agenda, to the moment when the world community, as represented here, could adopt consensus resolutions against apartheid with none dissenting. It was therefore with great joy that at our inauguration as President of our Republic we received, among others, such high and distinguished officials of the Organization as the Secretary-General, the President of the General Assembly and the Chairman of the Special Committee against Apartheid. Their presence reaffirmed the incontrovertible truth that the victory over apartheid, the success of the cause of democracy, non-racialism and non- sexism in our country belongs as much to our people as it does the United Nations. And so we have embarked on the road to the remaking of our country, basing ourselves both on the democratic Constitution, which came into force on 27 April this year, and on the Reconstruction and Development Programme, which has become the property of all our people. Clearly, these documents would have no life unless the people gave them life. The words printed in them must inspire common ownership by all our people and their common allegiance to the process and the results which these documents intend. For this to happen, as we propagate the vision these documents contain we must at the same time engage in a historic effort of redefinition of ourselves as a new nation. Our watchwords must be justice, peace, reconciliation and nation-building in the pursuit of a democratic, non-racial and non-sexist country. In all that we do we have to ensure the healing of the wounds inflicted on all our people across the great dividing line imposed on our society by centuries of colonialism and apartheid. We must ensure that colour, race and gender become only a God-given gift to each one of us, and not an indelible mark or attribute that accords a special status to any. We must work for the day when we as South Africans see one another and interact with one another as equal human beings and as part of one nation united, rather than torn asunder, by its diversity. The road we shall have to travel to reach this destination will by no means be easy. All of us know how stubbornly racism can cling to the mind and how deeply it can infect the human soul. Where it is sustained by the racial ordering of the material world, as is the case in our country, that stubbornness can multiply a hundredfold. And yet, however hard this battle may be, we will not surrender. Whatever the time it may take, we will not tire. The very fact that racism degrades both the perpetrator and the victim commands that, if we are true to our commitment to protect human dignity, we fight on until victory is achieved. We firmly believe that we who have particular experience of the destructive and anti-human force of racism owe it to ourselves to centre our transformation on the creation of a truly non-racial society. Because we know racism so intimately, we must stand a good chance of developing and nurturing its opposite. It will perhaps come to be that we who have harboured in our country the worst example of racism since the defeat of nazism will make a contribution to 7 General Assembly 14th meeting Forty-ninth session 3 October 1994 human civilization by ordering our affairs in such a manner that we strike an effective and lasting blow against racism everywhere. Some of the steps that we have already taken - including the establishment of a Government of National Unity, the orderly transformation of the institutions of State and the cultivation of a national consensus on the major issues of the day - have started us off on a correct footing with regard to continuing the processes leading to the creation of the just society we have been speaking of. Our political emancipation has also brought into sharp focus the urgent need to engage in the struggle to secure our people’s freedom from want, from hunger and from ignorance. We have written this on our banners: that the society we seek to create must be a people-centred society; all its institutions and its resources must be dedicated to the pursuit of a better life for all our citizens. That better life must mean an end to poverty, joblessness, homelessness and the despair that comes of deprivation. This is an end in itself because the happiness of the human being must, in any society, be an end in itself. At the same time, we are intensely conscious of the fact that the stability of the democratic settlement itself and the possibility actually to create a non-racial and non-sexist society depend on our ability to change the material conditions of life of our people so that they not only have the vote but have bread and work as well. We therefore return to the United Nations to make the commitment that, as we undertook never to rest until the system of apartheid was defeated, so do we now undertake that we cannot rest while millions of our people suffer the pain and indignity of poverty in all its forms. At the same time, we turn once more to this world body to say 'We are going to need your continued support to achieve the goal of the betterment of the conditions of life of our people.' We are pleased and inspired that both the Secretary-General and the specialized agencies of the United Nations have taken up the development challenge in South Africa with the enthusiasm that they have shown. We believe that it is in the common interest that we sustain the common victory that we have scored in South Africa, and take it further by achieving success not only in politics but also in the socio-economic sphere. It is perhaps common cause among us that everywhere on our globe there is an unmistakable process leading to the entrenchment of democratic systems of government. The empowerment of the ordinary people of our world freely to determine their destiny, unhindered by tyrants and dictators, is at the very heart of the reason for the existence of this Organization. But it is equally true that hundreds of millions of these politically empowered masses are caught in the deathly trap of poverty, unable to live life in its fullness. Out of all this are born social conflicts which produce insecurity and instability, civil and other wars that claim many lives, millions of desperate refugees and the destruction of the little wealth that poor countries are able to accumulate. Out of this cauldron are also born tyrants, dictators and demagogues who not only take away or restrict the rights of the people but also make it impossible to do the things that must be done to bring lasting prosperity to the people. At the same time, the reality can no longer be ignored that we live in an interdependent world which is bound together to a common destiny. The very response of the international community to the challenge of apartheid confirmed this very point that we all understood - that so long as apartheid existed in South Africa, so long would the whole of humanity feel demeaned and degraded. The United Nations understood very well that racism in our country could not but feed racism in other parts of the world as well. The universal struggle against apartheid was therefore not an act of charity arising out of pity for our people, but an affirmation of our common humanity. We believe that that act of affirmation requires that this Organization should once more turn its focused and sustained attention to the basics of everything that makes for a better world for all humanity. The elaboration of a new world order must, of necessity, centre on this world body. In it we should find the appropriate forum in which we can all participate to help determine the shape of the new world. The four elements that will need to be knit together in fashioning that new universal reality are the issues of democracy, peace, prosperity and interdependence. The great challenge of our age to the United Nations is to answer the question 'Given the interdependence of the nations of the world, what is it that we can and must 8 General Assembly 14th meeting Forty-ninth session 3 October 1994 do to ensure that democracy, peace and prosperity prevail everywhere?' We are aware of the fact that the United Nations is addressing these questions in many ways; yet there can be no gainsaying the fact that such progress as we have made has been made more by stealth than in the bold and determined fashion that the world crisis demands today. Perhaps a new and forceful initiative is required. Such an initiative should inspire all of humanity because of the seriousness of its intent. It should also have a chance to succeed because it will have been underwritten by the commitment of the masses of the people in each member country to join hands with other nations, to address together the related issues of democracy, peace and prosperity in an interdependent world. We are aware of the fact that the dictates of realpolitik militate against the speedy realization of such an initiative. But we do believe that the reality of life and the realism of policy will, at some point, bring to the fore the fact that the delay we impose on ourselves today will serve only to increase the pressure on all of us to incorporate, within what we consider possible, a sustainable vision of a common world that will rise or fall together. Undoubtedly, to inspire greater confidence in itself among all the member nations and to reflect better the impulse towards the democratization of international relations, the United Nations will have to continue looking at itself to determine what restructuring of itself it should effect. This process must naturally affect, among others, the structure and functioning of the Security Council and the peacemaking and peace-keeping issues raised by the Secretary-General in 'An Agenda for Peace'. Democratic South Africa rejoins the world community of nations determined to play its role in helping to strengthen the United Nations and to contribute what it can to the furtherance of its purposes. Among other things, we have this morning acceded to the covenants and conventions adopted by this Organization, which address various matters such as economic, social and cultural rights, civil and political rights, and the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination, to say nothing of our irrevocable commitment to the realization of the objectives contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are determined to play our full part in all processes that address the important question of the non-proliferation and elimination of weapons of mass destruction. Our Government has also decided to become a signatory to the Convention on prohibition and restrictions on the use of certain conventional weapons. In a similar vein, we shall not be found wanting in the quest for sustainable development that is in keeping with the Rio de Janeiro Declaration on Environment and Development as well as with Agenda 21. Equally, our own national interest dictates that we join forces with the United Nations and all its Member States in the common struggle to contain and end the traffic in narcotics. Even in constitutional terms, we are committed to the advancement of the objective of the emancipation of women through the creation of a non-sexist society. Apart from anything else, we are therefore actively engaged in the preparations for what we are convinced will be a successful Beijing Conference. We are part of the region of southern Africa and the continent of Africa. As members of the Southern African Development Community and the Organization of African Unity (OAU), and an equal partner with other Member States, we will play our role in the struggles of these organizations to build a continent and a region that will help to create for themselves and all humanity a common world of peace and prosperity. Ours must become a continent free of such tragedies as those that have afflicted our own country as well as Rwanda, Somalia, Angola, Mozambique, the Sudan and Liberia. Happily, the OAU is actively addressing the issues of peace and stability on our continent. We are greatly encouraged that the countries of our region, faced with a crisis in Lesotho, acted together speedily and, with the cooperation of the Government and the people of that country, succeeded in demonstrating that together we have the will to defend democracy, peace and national reconciliation. Furthermore, as members of the Non-Aligned Movement and the Group of 77, we are committed especially to the promotion of South-South cooperation and to the strengthening of the voice of the poor and disadvantaged in the ordering of world affairs. We would like to take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the members of the General Assembly for the speed and readiness with which they accepted the 9 General Assembly 14th meeting Forty-ninth session 3 October 1994 credentials of democratic South Africa, enabling us to participate in the work of the last General Assembly. We are pleased to note that this same spirit characterized the approach of other international organizations towards our new democracy, including the Commonwealth and the European Union. We would like to close by congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election to your high post, and we express our confidence that you will guide the work of the Assembly with the wisdom and sense of purpose for which we admire you. The millions across our globe who stand expectant at the gates of hope look to this Organization to bring them peace, to bring them life, to bring them a life worth living. We pray that the new South Africa, which the General Assembly helped bring into being and so warmly welcomed among the community of nations, will, in its own and in the wider interest, make its own contribution, however small, to the realization of those hopes. Our common humanity and the urgency of the knock on the door of this great edifice demand that we must attempt even the impossible. Each year’s session of the General Assembly provides us with an opportunity to take a panoramic view of the world’s great questions and to reflect on the prospects for its future. For my part, I am honoured to be speaking for the first time in this Assembly as President of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire. This experience is all the more stirring for me since I am returning to this lofty site of modern history where I participated in numerous sessions when I was my country’s young Ambassador in Washington to the great American nation. My vivid memory of those years is of having all alone represented my country on the day of its admission to the community of sovereign nations through the Security Council. That was 34 years ago. I am equally proud that you, Mr. President, a worthy son of Côte d’Ivoire and of Africa, are presiding over this forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. My pride is shared by the entire people of Côte d’Ivoire, on behalf of which I extend warm congratulations on your noteworthy election to this prestigious post. This election attests to the confidence and esteem which you enjoy in this forum thanks to your qualities as an experienced diplomat and to your great knowledge, acquired over more than two decades, of international relations, in particular in Geneva and New York. It also expresses recognition of the balanced pragmatism with which, for 34 years now, Côte d’Ivoire has been conducting its foreign policy. I am therefore convinced that you conduct the work of this session with competence and skill. Mr. President, allow me to thank your predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, for the outstanding work he accomplished throughout his mandate, as well as all the members of his General Committee. Finally, on behalf of my delegation and in my personal capacity, I should like to pay a well-deserved tribute to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of our Organization, for his courageous action and his tireless efforts for peace and for understanding among peoples. We should like to assure him once again of our full confidence and of our total support in his quest for peaceful solutions to the problems the world is experiencing. May I also take this occasion to voice, on behalf of all citizens of Côte d’Ivoire, our deepest, most sincere gratitude to the eminent representatives of the States gathered here for the outstanding demonstration of friendship and solidarity shown toward my country at the time of the death of President Félix Houphouet-Boigny. The tribute to his memory in this very Hall, on 9 December last, and the moving expressions of sympathy on the day of his funeral, 7 February 1994, will remain forever enshrined in the collective memory of the citizens of Côte d’Ivoire. 14 I am gratified to take this opportunity solemnly to assure the international community of my determination to pursue the policy of openness and the search for peace begun by my illustrious predecessor. The end of the Cold War had given rise to hope for fruitful relationships based on peace and on shared economic and social development. Now there is general astonishment at the fact that the world, which the United Nations is destined to serve, has entered a stage of uncertainty. No one imagined that the fall of the Berlin Wall, whose symbolism marked the beginning of those great changes that we have been witnessing since 1989, would expose such serious defects, which today are making their appearance in the most untenable forms in human relations. In fact, we are ashamed at the idea of being witness to political, ethnic and religious tensions and armed conflicts that we believed belonged to a bygone age. The painful examples of the former Yugoslavia, of Angola, Burundi, Liberia, Rwanda and Somalia show us the intensity of the tragedies that we are experiencing. As concerns Liberia, the implementation of the Cotonou Agreement of 25 July 1993 is encountering difficulties on the ground. Indeed, aside from the difficulties which occurred in the establishment of institutions and the formation of the transitional Government, this Agreement has come up against the sensitive issue of the disarmament of the factions. That disarmament was the precondition for the elections originally planned for 7 September 1994. Unfortunately, out of a force assessed at approximately 60,000 troops, only 3,000 soldiers of the United Liberation Movement for Democracy (ULIMO) and the National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL) have laid down their arms since the first days of the disarmament operations. Since then, the proliferation of factions and mutual distrust have frozen the positions. We hope that the agreement just concluded in Ghana on 12 September 1994 will experience a better fate, leading to general elections and to the exercise of democracy in Liberia. It is well known that Côte d’Ivoire has made great efforts for years now to find a peaceful solution to this conflict, which has repercussions of all kinds in the subregion, especially in my country. As to the tragedy in Rwanda, despite the burden of the Liberian conflict on our economy, we are ready to participate, as long as we receive the necessary logistical support, in the efforts of the international community to restore peace in that ravaged country. Here we should like to hail the courageous initiative undertaken by France to render humanitarian assistance to all those who have fallen victim to this tragedy. Other actions, particularly those undertaken by our Organization and other Member States within the framework of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR) also deserve our encouragement. Concerning all hotbeds of tension, be they on the African continent or elsewhere in the world, we launch the same appeal for peace, tolerance and understanding. As my illustrious predecessor, the late Félix Houphouet- Boigny, used to say, a hungry man is not a free man. These social and political difficulties that have arisen in a number of States are caused for the most part by misery, extreme poverty, hunger, fear, injustice, exclusion, ignorance and intolerance. That is why, now that the Cold War is over and the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization is fast approaching, Côte d’Ivoire would propose to this Assembly that 1995 be proclaimed the International Year of Universal Solidarity. Every man and woman should not only eschew tribal, religious, political and ideological hatreds, but should also contribute individually and collectively to the campaign against hunger, disease, ignorance and in favour of the implementation of the ideal of shared welfare. While the world continues to rend itself apart, several particularly positive events are genuine sources of satisfaction and give grounds for hope. In this regard, it gives me great joy to extend, on behalf of Cote d’Ivoire, a warm and fraternal welcome to the South African delegation. As I did in Tunis during the thirtieth Summit of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), I should like to take this opportunity to reiterate to President Nelson Mandela our sincere congratulations on his outstanding and historic election to the presidency of a democratic and multi-racial South Africa. Another reason for satisfaction is the Middle East, with the signing in Washington on 13 September 1993 of the Gaza-Jericho autonomy agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), whose implementation began with the arrival in Palestine of President Yasir Arafat and the formation of the first Palestinian Government. 15 May I here hail the Israeli and Palestinian builders of this process, as well as all those who encouraged this event, which was welcomed unanimously. We also extend our best wishes for the success of this great and noble enterprise and we hope that this highly sensitive region of the Middle East will enjoy a just and lasting peace. Now more than ever, the world needs peace to release the energies mankind needs to flourish. That is why democracy, perceived as one of the ways to guarantee freedom, promote private initiative and the participation of all citizens in development, is something I particularly cherish. In this regard, my Government and I have decided, as a priority in Côte d’Ivoire, to promote genuine political pluralism and the strengthening of democratic institutions, while guaranteeing their proper functioning, for in our times democracy is irreversible and is an imperative for all of human society - and our prestigious universal Organization itself is no exception. Hence, discussions begun several years ago on the restructuring of some of its bodies, in particular the Security Council, seem to us timely in providing broader representation for Member States without, however, damaging its effectiveness. Moreover, in October 1995, the international community will commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization. This will provide an opportunity to proceed to a review - in our judgement, positive - of this institution to which mankind owes so much. It will also be the time to recall that the founding fathers had risen up against the injustice of unequal development. They foresaw its tragic consequences which, unfortunately, we note today. Efforts to establish greater justice in international economic relations have not yielded the expected results, and there is now an exponential increase in the gap between the developed and the developing countries. While the former continue to enjoy continually rising standards of living and welfare, the latter, on the contrary, are now experiencing a more serious deterioration of their economies - if not generalized impoverishment. The growth rates noted in some of these countries cannot conceal or substantively reverse this deplorable trend. The frontiers of poverty in Africa, as elsewhere, can be made to recede only if the international community and, in particular, the United Nations rethinks the machinery for international cooperation and firmly commits itself to promoting development in these countries. The economic and financial crisis Africa continues to experience since the beginning of the 1980s has led to a setback in growth in nearly all of the countries of the continent. Nearly all these countries’ economic parameters and indicators are today negative despite all the bold recovery and economic restructuring measures that have been undertaken. That is why we call for ever closer solidarity between North and South, by which I mean a real partnership taking into account their genuine interests in an international economy of sharing. Did not the international community very early on grasp this need for complementarity and solidarity by advocating as long ago as 1974 a new, more just and equitable international economic order? Faced with geopolitical upheavals and new formations of economic blocs, and given the severe trials which have struck them specifically, the African States demonstrated their joint will to integration by signing the Treaty creating the African Economic Community on 3 June 1991 in Abuja. The Treaty entered into force on 3 June 1994, and this demonstrates our determination to cope with these problems. However, all our efforts will be in vain without a favourable international economic environment and substantial support by the international community. For its part, Côte d’Ivoire, sorely tried by the economic crisis of the past few years, has, since 1981, engaged in several successive programmes of structural adjustment. These sacrifices, which followed 20 years of sustained economic growth, clearly highlighted the need to make further use of the abilities of our nation in the creation and implementation of a development policy. The economic reforms undertaken under the aegis of international institutions have called for significant efforts by the rural sector on which our development was based, without granting it social investments on a proportionate basis. The change in parity of the CFA franc, which took place at the beginning of this year for 14 African countries, is aimed at guiding the national economy toward exports in order to achieve an economic take-off. 16 This return to growth cannot be accomplished without the appropriate integration of the concerns of the various social groups. Côte d’Ivoire is considered one of the African countries that have made the most significant human investment during the first years of independence. On the average, almost 7 per cent of its gross national product has been devoted to education. In our subregion, it remains the country with the greatest number of personnel with higher education in all areas of economic activity. It is therefore incumbent upon us to proceed to an appropriate use of our human resources as the sine qua non for new growth and development. That is why it is important that increased efforts be made and that the appropriate means be provided to strengthen the campaign against the terrible scourges afflicting various regions of Africa that are dangerously jeopardizing the future of our societies. Malaria, the traditional affliction of our continent, and AIDS, which appeared a decade ago and whose brutal force is well known, are today the most significant of the epidemics crippling Africa, which nevertheless aspires to development and makes no secret of its determination to succeed. If we look at the past three decades, we see an African continent that has gone from a period of growth to one characterized by a constant decline in productivity, a general exacerbation of the problem of poverty and the weakening of social parameters - in short, a progressive deterioration of the economic situation. The international community, it must be said, has not abandoned Africa. On the bilateral level and in multilateral bodies, policies have been devised to cope with the specific situations experienced by the countries of our continent. These efforts are commendable, for they are a concrete demonstration of an all-important human solidarity. But the world is changing, and Africa knows that it must, through its own abilities, win its own place in world trade and play an outstanding role commensurate with its immense potential. It is aware today more than ever of its assets as well as of the challenge posed by its nearly marginal position in relation to other regions of the world. It will know how to take advantage of the many opportunities open to it by relying first and foremost on the will of its peoples, their intelligence and creativity, and their capacity for reflection and initiative, in order to participate in the drafting and implementation of long-term development policies. It will also rely on the rest of the international community, its indispensable partner, to create new forms of active, mutually beneficial solidarity implemented in full respect for the dignity of all participants. Of course, problems remain. Some, linked to the recent past, such as the problem of debt, seem to be obstacles to the development of new initiatives. The international community and friendly countries must understand that indebtedness, which is designed specifically to ensure a country’s development, should not be turned against it and transformed into a deliberate restraint on its growth. Solutions to this problem have already been put forward; all have the potential to promote a return to growth and renewed forms of cooperation. But Africa must turn its attention to new challenges. It must, for example, consider how to preserve and protect its environment in order to ensure present and future generations an adequate and healthy framework in which all forms of life can develop in harmony. It must take advantage of the great potential of recent agreements on the organization of world trade in order firmly to integrate itself into the flow of global exchanges. As the continent most blessed with reserves of raw materials, it must master the technology to adapt them to its needs. That will be the basis for its true resurgence. It has long been aware of all these imperative needs. Through successive steps, particularly by regrouping on the subregional and continental levels, it has begun to acquire the means necessary to its reawakening. Africa will succeed. It will succeed in warding off the dark fate that seems to loom over it. It will succeed in ridding itself of underdevelopment in order to be a positive participant in the immense task of building a prosperous future for all humanity. Mr President, it is a pleasure for me to congratulate you, Foreign Minister Essy, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. The Barbados delegation has cooperated closely with Your Excellency in the past, and we have every confidence that you will guide the work of this session with distinction. It is with a deep sense of pride and satisfaction that I also offer my Government’s congratulations to our outgoing President, Ambassador Rudy Insanally of Guyana. As the first representative from the Caribbean to hold that high office, Ambassador Insanally has represented the entire region with exemplary skill and diplomacy, and has left much seminal work for us to build upon over the coming months. I also extend the good wishes of the Barbados Government to our distinguished Secretary-General, Dr Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whom the Barbadian people had the honour of receiving in Bridgetown earlier this year. We offer him our continued support in his difficult task at the helm of the Organization at so crucial an epoch in world affairs. On 23 June this year, the Republic of South Africa received a warm and emotional welcome back to this Hall as it formally resumed its participation in the work of the Assembly. As it did then, Barbados warmly welcomes the return of South Africa to the community of nations. As we rejoice at the demise of apartheid, we are still greatly moved by the tremendous sacrifices made by the men, women and children of South Africa that made a democratic South Africa possible, and by the steadfastness and the statesmanship of the South African leaders, particularly President Mandela, whose great stature and wisdom captivated this body some seven days ago. We also acknowledge the sterling contribution of the Special Committee against Apartheid, which for 32 years worked unremittingly to achieve this remarkable outcome. South Africa is well poised to play a significant role in this Organization, and the international community has much to learn from the South African experience. It is, however, imperative that we recognize that South Africa still very much needs our assistance with the great challenges that lie ahead. The Government of Barbados pledges to support the Government of South Africa as it strives to improve the quality of life for its citizens. Barbados is greatly encouraged by the progress made in the search for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East since the signing of the Washington Declaration by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization in September last year. The Cairo Accord, which paved the way for the commencement of Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and in Jericho, and the Israeli-Jordanian Declaration, signed in Washington in July this year, are welcome steps on the difficult path towards the attainment of peace in that region. Barbados hopes that future resolutions on the Middle East will be reflective of these advances and will serve as a fillip to the parties engaged in the negotiation process as they strive to achieve a comprehensive peace in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). The people of Barbados went to the polls on 6 September and, in an incident-free election, voted a new Government into office. I am honoured to be a part of that new order. The democracy that Barbados practices 6 is ingrained in the culture and habits of its people. For them, freedom of speech and association and freedom to vote at regular intervals for a Government of their choice and to have the Government installed in an immediate and orderly transfer of power are the simple and natural norms of life. Yet, sadly, what we in Barbados take for granted, others close by in our own hemisphere still struggle to achieve. My country, Barbados, has gained international recognition for its comprehensive network of social services, its people-oriented development policies and its high quality of life, which have earned it first place in the developing world in the United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Index. The present Government of the Barbados Labour Party fully recognizes the challenges that lie ahead for a small, middle-income country like Barbados to sustain that achievement in an international economic environment that continues to marginalize the small and fragile in the developing world. With few resource endowments, our survival must depend exclusively on the skills of our industrial and committed people and on the God-given beauty of our natural environment. The new Government has responded immediately to that challenge in its manifesto 'Charter for Change', a fundamental policy document that represents a solemn compact by this Government to work together with its citizens in seeking for Barbados a strong, strategic position in the global community of nations as we approach the twenty-first century. We are determined to use the opportunities created by the technological and communications revolution to overcome the obstacle of size and to harness our natural and strategic assets to convert Barbados into a full-service economy. We will encourage the development of tourism and the international financial services and informatics sectors to their fullest potential. We will create a business-friendly environment that will be conducive to new investment, both local and foreign. We will facilitate the growth and development of the small- business sector and encourage entrepreneurship. A radically restructured Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and International Business, under my direction, has been put in place to spearhead this endeavour. Against this background, the people of Barbados view with concern the tragic situation of Haiti. For far too long Haiti has been a burden on the collective conscience of the region. For too long a just and equitable solution has not only eluded the countries in our own hemisphere, but eluded also the grasp of the Security Council of the United Nations. We are greatly encouraged that the deployment into Haiti of the multinational force took place under peaceful circumstances and that the spectre of a bloody confrontation was averted. The participation of Barbados in the multinational force and the United Nations Mission in Haiti, authorized by Security Council resolution 940 (1994), is testimony to our commitment to ensuring that the will of the Haitian people is finally respected and their lawful President and his administration restored to office without delay. The clear terms of resolution 940 (1994) must be honoured in full, and the power of a brutal and lawless military and its callous leadership effectively and permanently neutralized. As stated by Prime Minister Owen Arthur of Barbados in his recent address at the White House on behalf of the Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM): “Where democracy has taken root, it should be encouraged to grow and to flourish. Like the Soviet Union and South Africa, Haiti too deserves its rendezvous with democracy. The Haitian people wished for it. They suffered for it. They voted for it. And now they are dying for it.” Haiti’s rendezvous with democracy has now begun in earnest. Hope is finally returning to a people that for a very long time had felt that all was lost. But as we in CARICOM have warned on numerous previous occasions, the ballot box is merely the beginning of the democratic process. The international community must now orchestrate a massive effort to put in place the institutional infrastructure necessary to maintain and strengthen the fledgling Haitian democracy and to bury forever the ghosts of the past. The reconstruction of Haiti entails the creation of conditions that will ensure that the rights and freedoms of all Haitian people are respected. It must also respond effectively to the critical development needs of the Haitian population and to their just aspirations to share equitably in the resources of their country. The Governments of the Caribbean Community are committed to playing their part in this vital phase of the process, and to this end have agreed to provide assistance, in concert with other members of the international community, in the development of a civilian force as a professional organization for maintaining the peace and respect for human rights in Haiti. They are also prepared to make available to the constitutionally appointed authorities in Haiti a cadre of officers from the public 7 service of the member States of CARICOM to provide training in public administration, the conduct of elections and other activities in support of the institutionalization of the democratic process. As we look across the Caribbean Community, we see much that gives us cause for hope. The private and public sectors of our subregion are collaborating more and more, while, at the same time, intergovernmental cooperation has increased. The political dialogue between Heads of Government is flourishing, and economic cooperation is expanding. Concerted efforts are also being made to boost intraregional trade and to improve the economic, social and cultural well-being of our peoples. This year the Caribbean Community celebrated its twenty-first anniversary. A pioneer among integration movements in our hemisphere, CARICOM has sought to respond to the reality that Caribbean peoples share a common destiny, which is best realized through coordination and cooperation in pursuit of their economic, social and political well-being. This year also, building on the foundations laid by many statesmen of the Caribbean and on the ideas most recently developed by the West Indian Commission, the leaders of 25 States whose shores are washed by the Caribbean Sea met at Cartagena, Colombia, to sign the Convention establishing the Association of Caribbean States. The Association will bring together in their common pursuit of development 40 Caribbean-basin States, countries and territories with a total population of 200 million. Its stated aims are: to promote, utilize and develop the collective capabilities of the Caribbean region to achieve sustainable cultural economic, social, scientific and technological advancement; to develop the potential of the Caribbean Sea through interaction among member States and with third parties; to promote an enhanced economic space for trade and investment with opportunities for cooperation and concerted action, in order to increase the benefits which accrue to the peoples of the Caribbean from their resources and assets, including the Caribbean Sea; and to establish, consolidate and augment, as appropriate, institutional structures and cooperation agreements responsive to the various cultural identities, developmental needs and innovative systems within the region. Barbados fully supports the aims of the Association and welcomes its establishment as an important step in the consolidation of the regional integration effort. But our aims to foster development across the Caribbean will not be complete until all of the partners are free to participate on an equal footing. In this regard we believe the time has come to remove the last vestige of cold-war rivalry from our hemisphere. We join the international community in appealing to the United States to lift its punitive economic embargo on Cuba and to facilitate the economic reintegration of that neighbouring State into the world economy. We urge that political will be found to resolve the remaining differences between the two countries through further dialogue. Earlier this year, 116 countries and 150 non-governmental organizations were represented at the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in Barbados. The first follow-up activity to be held in fulfillment of a mandate from the International Conference on Environment and Development, the 'Earth summit', the Conference aimed to develop a blueprint of priority actions for the implementation of Agenda 21 in the specific context of small island developing States. The results of the Conference will shortly come before the General Assembly for its endorsement at this session. We urge the international community to lend its full support to the measures proposed to ensure sustained follow-up and implementation of the proposals contained in the Barbados Programme of Action. On 16 November, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea will come into force, 12 years after it was opened for signature at Montego Bay. We welcome the recent developments which have enhanced the prospects of universal participation in the Convention and look forward to the inauguration of the work of its relevant organs. We look forward too to the successful conclusion next year of the Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, and to the adoption of a legally binding regime to regulate the conservation and management of these threatened stocks. The wise observation by the Secretary-General that “development is a fundamental right and the strongest foundation for peace” has been recognized by the General Assembly, which in recent years has been giving priority attention to social development by convening a number of international conferences devoted primarily to social and economic issues, as envisaged in Article 55 of the Charter. The recent International Conference on Population and Development spoke volumes about the changing nature of international dialogue and the changing role of 8 women. In greater numbers and with greater strength, civil society in the form of non-governmental organizations worked alongside Governments to craft a plan of action which might realistically address the reproductive health of women and the broader needs of women in the development process. We owe a debt of gratitude to Ms. Nafis Sadik, Mr. Fred Sai and the rest of the Conference leadership, who pushed for and achieved a broad consensus on many difficult issues which fall into the realm of the population and development dialogue. For my country, the outcome of the International Conference on Population and Development and the Plan of Action confirm much of the effort which has been spent on improving women’s access to family planning and health services. I stand before the Assembly as an example of the progressive attitude which Barbadians hold regarding women’s status and leadership potential. I am also reminded that we too need to work on areas highlighted by the population Conference proceedings: difficult issues such as reducing maternal mortality, addressing the needs of special groups such as youth, and looking at how our policies and programmes further women’s empowerment. Still, I am heartened by the openness of the United Nations processes to the contributions of citizens’ groups alongside Governments, and will watch with great interest the progress at the social summit and women’s conference. These conferences, together with the 1990 World Summit for Children and the 1992 Rio de Janiero Conference, extend along a continuum which urges action to look into the difficulties faced by our citizens and at how Government policies can relieve the uneven pressures which are put upon women. Barbados considers that these meetings are of vital importance and that their core themes demand the adoption of a meaningful programme of action that would demonstrate a firm commitment to the oft-repeated concept that the human being should indeed be placed at the centre of development. Poverty, unemployment, gender equality, children’s rights and other integrated issues must be tackled with the same urgency and resolve as other aspirations of the Charter if this Organization intends to signal a true turning-point in its human-development strategy. The United Nations has contributed significantly to promoting and ensuring respect for and observance of human rights since the adoption of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights on 10 December 1948. The legal framework and the established human rights machinery have been greatly strengthened by the Vienna Declaration and Plan of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights held at Vienna in June 1993. The Conference affirmed that democracy, development and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are interdependent and mutually reinforcing, and especially emphasized that the right to development is a basic human right. At its forty-eighth session, the General Assembly honoured the Latin American and Caribbean region by appointing His Excellency Mr. José Ayala Lasso of Ecuador as the first United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights as a first step in implementing the Vienna Declaration. At its forty-ninth session, the General Assembly must now seek with equal vigour to implement the other important measures of the Vienna Declaration. Barbados urges that the Working Group on Human Rights pursue its mandate in a coherent, transparent and balanced manner in order that the long- term interests of human rights may be truly served. Barbados believes that every human being is entitled to the unfettered enjoyment of all human rights and that the ultimate human right is the right to life. In this context, we urge that the Assembly give serious consideration at this session to the harmful impact that illicit drug trafficking, organized transnational crime and terrorism have on the effective enjoyment of human rights. Barbados welcomes the recent decision of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to establish a working group to pursue areas of collaboration with the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice in maritime trafficking. We are also encouraged by the progress the Working Group has made on the draft statute for an international criminal court and support the recommendation by the International Law Commission that the General Assembly convene an international conference of plenipotentiaries to study the draft statute and to conclude a convention on the establishment of an international criminal court. My Government has always been a strong supporter of the United Nations. We believe that in the emerging new world order it is more critical than ever for the United Nations to be capable of fulfilling its role as the primary guarantor of the security and independence of small States, and as the protector of the powerless and economically vulnerable who form the vast majority of its membership. It is also important for the small, but morally authoritative, voices of this world body to continue to stress the absolute necessity for the 9 international community to use equitably and responsibly the powers conferred upon it in the Charter. Over the past year, priority attention has been given in the work of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council to the task of elaborating an Agenda for Development as a necessary corollary to, and indeed a prerequisite for, the 'Agenda for Peace'. We have taken careful note of the Secretary-General’s report to the forty- eighth session in this regard and look forward to giving detailed consideration to the recommendations which he will present in his report to this session. While we recognize that the United Nations has an inescapable responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, we must acknowledge also that peace and development are indivisible. The root causes of most conflicts are to be found in the legacy of poverty and dispossession that underdevelopment engenders. While we agree that the world body must of necessity respond to critical conflict situations as they arise, it must at the same time be pointed out that the vast majority of the world’s population does not live in a state of war or civil conflict. The betterment of the economic and social conditions of that majority deserves a central place in the deliberative and decision-making bodies of the United Nations and must be the principal objective of an Agenda for Development. An Agenda for Development must promote a new consensus on international cooperation for development and an integrated approach which is people-centred. Furthermore, it must be based on creating a new cooperative relationship between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions, one which recognizes the fundamental importance of the social dimension to development. The policies pursued by these institutions over the past decade, particularly within the framework of structural-adjustment programmes, have left a legacy which convinces us of the need for radical reform. We must remind ourselves that the improvement of human well-being is the fundamental criterion to which the development objective must respond. There is little value in short-term economic growth if the measures used to attain it result inevitably in social disintegration. The Barbados delegation therefore strongly supports the view of the South Centre that fresh approaches must be sought and a new social contract established if social, political and economic objectives are to be reconciled. The United Nations is the appropriate forum to ensure that this reconciliation of objectives can be promoted in a universal, transparent and democratic manner. Several useful views have emerged over the past year during the discussion of the Open-Ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council. We look forward to an intensification of these discussions during the forty-ninth session. Any enlargement of the Council must only be contemplated within a context that deals also with the issue of equitable geographical representation, the question of the veto, and the question of increasing the transparency of the operations of the Council and its accountability to the wider international community. Decisions arrived at hastily to deal with only one aspect of the issue, or merely to respond to an arbitrary deadline of next year’s celebrations, will not provide a lasting solution to this critical issue. The United Nations will have reached a remarkable milestone in 1995 as it celebrates 50 years of tireless service to the goal of enabling all mankind to live in dignity and enjoy better standards of life in larger freedom. While it is fitting that we acknowledge this milestone with appropriate ceremony, we must recognize that the United Nations will be called upon to face challenges in the twenty-first century that could be immeasurably more difficult than those of the previous era. Global stability will depend more and more on the ability of the United Nations to promote economic and social justice than on its ability to silence guns. The kind of challenges I have in mind are poignantly etched in the following quotation from an unpublished work in progress entitled 'The Rwanda Poem' by the distinguished Barbadian poet and writer Mr. Kamau Brathwaite, who, only a few days ago, received the Neustadt International Prize for Literature: 'Sa/hell crumbles into these flickering miles Miles of the silences of holes Of the cold dry moon in our belly Marrow burning its protein into its sound Skin smouldering to ash Holocaust of dome - there is no music anywhere Heads propped up on sticks of skeletons Bald headed children naked of all else But large deep agate space-age eyes' Global stability will be difficult to maintain if the cries of the majority of the world’s peoples, whose lives are marked by a lack of food, shelter and education and 10 who are afflicted by poverty, disease, and other forms of social misery, continue to go unheeded and are merely reflected as glaring statistics in United Nations reports on the world’s social situation. It is Barbados’ belief that the challenge that will confront the United Nations in the era ahead will lie undoubtedly in the humanitarian sphere. This Organization is the only universal body with the legitimacy to take up this challenge. But if it is to meet this challenge successfully, it must be made more efficient, effective and alert. In this context, prevention must supersede reaction. As we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization next year, 'We the peoples' must renew our commitment to this unique body and strive to ensure its relevance to the twenty-first century. Mr. President, be assured of Barbados’ commitment to these endeavours. Let me begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this forty-ninth session. I am confident that with your long and intimate knowledge of the United Nations we shall come to a successful conclusion of this session. Since we met a year ago, the world has witnessed both positive and negative developments. The latter deserve the particular attention of this Assembly. Nevertheless, let me begin by referring to some of the positive ones. One major development is the progress that has been made toward peace in the Middle East. The seemingly impossible is turning into reality. The United Nations must now be available to the parties concerned in the search for a comprehensive settlement in the region. It must also assist in the process of peace building and reconstruction. The Government of Finland welcomes the return of South Africa to the General Assembly, now with the credentials of a free, democratic and non-racial Member State. South Africa has the full potential of becoming a stabilizing political and economic force in Africa. It has already made a positive contribution to world security by abolishing, under international verification, its nuclear- weapons programme. In the immediate vicinity of Finland, the withdrawal of Russian troops from Estonia and Latvia has put an end to one of the painful legacies of the Second World War. I am confident that the remaining problems in the relations between the Baltic States and Russia will be solved in the same spirit as that which helped resolve the issues of troop withdrawals. My Government also welcomes the cease-fire in Northern Ireland declared by the Irish Republican Army. We hope that this will facilitate an early and lasting solution acceptable to all. There are also encouraging signs in the world economy, particularly regarding the multilateral trade system. It is now urgent to implement the results of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, including the establishment of the World Trade Organization. Other issues on the trade agenda, such as trade and environment, also need to be addressed. These positive developments to which I have referred have one thing in common: they would not have been possible without courageous leadership. They illustrate the fact that patient and visionary leadership is necessary in solving problems facing the international community. Turning now to negative developments, there are still many conflicts that neither the parties concerned nor the international community have been willing or able to solve. The abhorrent tragedies in the former Yugoslavia, Rwanda and Somalia have caused suffering to millions of innocent people. They are frightening examples of our inability to act when national leadership fails and intra-State conflicts threaten international peace and security. The Security Council has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, but it cannot - nor should it - act as a substitute for the Member States or their Governments. It is a dangerous and fallacious impression that the United Nations could or should always step in to rectify irresponsible actions and policies, nor can it be expected to be present forever in conflict areas. It is also obvious that the United Nations will never be in a position to dispose of enough resources to meet all demands. We must seek new ways and approaches. We must be able to prevent fires before they start. Too often, conflicts erupt because of a lack of preventive action and misperceived faith in the readiness and the ability of the United Nations to step in. It is clear that preventive measures should be given a greater role in the Organization’s work on conflict resolution. In the present United Nations peace-keeping system, political oversight, planning and military command and control need to be improved and the budgetary system streamlined. Moreover, we are increasingly challenged by complex emergencies, which include political, military and humanitarian concerns. These cannot be addressed through traditional peace-keeping efforts alone. They require a comprehensive approach and sustained efforts by the States concerned, as well as the assistance of regional arrangements and organizations. Today, economic, social and humanitarian problems can be discussed without the veil of ideology. We can now address issues such as poverty, population, social justice and human rights without engaging in a contest of competing social systems. The linkage of world peace 18 with economic and social development, with the rule of law and respect for the rights of the individual, is now increasingly accepted. The concept of security has widened. It now comprises not only military and political factors but also, inter alia, the human aspect and the needs of the individual as well. We have taken important decisions at Rio on environment, at Vienna on human rights and at Cairo on population policies. Next year we shall meet at Copenhagen for the World Summit for Social Development and in Beijing to enhance the empowerment of women. In 1996 the second Habitat Conference will convene at Istanbul. Those conferences should lead to a better understanding, and ultimately acceptance, of the new concept of sustainable human development. The Secretary- General’s Agenda for Development should complement the process, and outline the role of the United Nations in the larger context of improved global governance. In this wider perspective the promotion and protection of human rights is crucial. The results of the World Conference on Human Rights held at Vienna must be put into practice. I am convinced that the High Commissioner for Human Rights will ensure that the promotion of human rights is included as an integral part of all activities of the United Nations. In 1992 the Security Council, unanimously and at the highest political level, stated that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction constituted a threat to international peace and security. The Council thus affirmed the fundamental norm first established by the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) a quarter of a century ago. The almost universal adherence to the NPT demonstrates that the world now shares a common interest in its continued existence. Finland believes, as do many other States parties, that the existence of the NPT must be secured through its indefinite and unconditional extension next year. I have referred to the challenges to the United Nations. Perhaps the greatest concern today is the lack of commitment to the Organization by many of its Member States. Without the full commitment of all of us, the United Nations cannot assume its role as a centre for international conciliation and cooperation. This is demonstrated by the financial situation of the Organization, which is very critical. Member States - and I refer particularly to those which face no constraints on their capacity to pay - must change their attitudes and pay forthwith and in full their assessed contributions and their arrears. Otherwise, this Organization will not be able to function. Finland has always paid its contributions in full and on time. So have some others, but regrettably few. Now we must all accept a strict budgetary and financial discipline. Breaches of this discipline must be sanctioned. Payment of interest on arrears should become standard practice and should be enforced. At the same time, of course, we must demand that the United Nations pursue its ongoing administrative and financial reforms. As the United Nations embarks on its second half-century, the circumstances are essentially different from those which prevailed for most of the first 50 years. It is therefore important to reshape our Organization to meet the challenges of tomorrow, not those of yesterday. The work done on the reform of the Security Council during the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly was very useful. We need now to continue that work and to arrive at conclusions acceptable to all. We need to ensure the continued efficiency of the Security Council, while making its composition better reflect today’s realities, such as the increasing responsibility, inter alia, of Germany and Japan, in world affairs. As we approach the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization, we should build on the solid foundation of the Charter. Our priorities should be to focus on prevention and peace-building in securing peace and stability, and also on sustainable human development in order to bring about security at the individual level; and to restructure our Organization to achieve better global governance. These priorities should guide our joint efforts as we approach the next millennium - 'United for a Better World'. Allow me to begin by conveying to the President, on my own behalf and on that of the Gabonese delegation, warm and brotherly congratulations on his noteworthy election to the presidency of the Assembly. His great experience in international affairs, along with his outstanding intellectual and moral qualities, are for us a guarantee that his presidency will stamp the work of the General Assembly with renewed dynamism. We wish to express to his predecessor, Mr. Samuel Rudolph Insanally of Guyana, our satisfaction at his decisive actions in the course of the forty-eighth session. I would also like to reiterate our appreciation and support for Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose competence, rigour and effectiveness in the service of the Organization are well established. The end of East-West antagonism foreshadowed unexpected horizons of peace and a bright tomorrow. Very quickly, however, the emergence of all kinds of extremism radically changed this picture of the future. Today the international community is divided between the hope of settling age-old conflicts, concern over the persistence of contemporary conflicts, and preoccupation over the emergence in some places of civil wars born of ethnic or religious tensions. While the risks, directly or indirectly linked to the cold war, of world-wide conflict have faded, armed conflicts continue to sow death and destruction. The resolution of the Cambodian conflict, the continuation of the Middle East peace process, the favourable progress of the conflict pitting Israel against its neighbours, the settlement of the border conflict between Chad and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and, above all, the abolition of apartheid in South Africa - to cite only a few examples - give us good reason to be pleased. Gabon has followed most attentively the current positive developments in the situation in the Middle East. We encourage the parties concerned to hold on to their gains and to pursue the peace process under way until the agreements reached are fully implemented. With regard to Cambodia, we appeal to all the parties involved to work for the consolidation of national unity and democratic institutions. Finally, for the first time in several decades, apartheid is not to be found on our agenda. This historic turn of events is the result, first and foremost, of the sacrifices of the South African people themselves and, then again, of the efforts of the international community as a whole. Gabon hails the return of a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa to the concert of free nations. For the settlement of these conflicts we are indebted primarily to our world Organization, which, free of the burdens of the cold war, seems to have recovered the dynamism that inspired the San Francisco Charter. In this context, the end of the border conflict that for years turned Chad and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya against each other is an outstanding example of the merits of settling disputes peacefully. The parties to that conflict have abided on all counts by the opinion of the International Court of Justice. My satisfaction is even greater because of President Omar Bongo's assumption of the chairmanship of the Ad Hoc Committee that was established in 1977 by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) at its fourteenth summit meeting and that is intended to provide a political settlement of that conflict. May this example serve to inspire the many States involved in conflicts to come into harmony with the spirit of the Charter of our Organization. These reasons for hope notwithstanding, in Africa and in Eastern Europe there are real reasons for concern with regard to the prospects for peace and stability in the world. With regard to Africa, partial and contradictory analyses aside, we must recognize that the peace and security of our continent are seriously threatened by civil wars and inter-ethnic conflicts. In Somalia there is no event or initiative that allows us to look to the future with optimism. Quite the contrary: thanks to the ruthlessness of the belligerents, the international community is becoming discouraged and the conflict is becoming entrenched. This is why the Gabonese Government urges the various factions to speed up the process of national reconciliation on the basis of the Addis Ababa Agreements. The conflict that has been tearing Liberia apart for so many years is still continuing relentlessly, showing hopes for peace to be illusory, hopes that were nurtured by the Agreements signed in Cotonou in July 1993 under the aegis of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). We would venture to hope that the recent Akossombo agreement, signed in Ghana, the eleventh of its kind, will lead to a lasting settlement of the conflict. Thoughts of these zones of conflict lead me now to pay a tribute, on behalf of my country, to the Angolan Government for its determination to pursue negotiation. Gabon encourages the efforts to restore peace in Angola, in accordance with the peace Agreements concluded to date and with Security Council resolutions 864 (1993) and 932 (1994). Here we appeal to UNITA to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the Lusaka talks to put an end to this war that has been casting a pall over Angola for almost 20 years now. On Rwanda, I reiterate the appeal of the Government of Gabon to all the sons and daughters of that country to adopt a spirit of tolerance, harmony and renewed peace and begin at last to work towards the same goal: the reconstruction of their battered, devastated country. In that context, Gabon has not failed to express its support for the humanitarian activities undertaken by the United Nations through the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR), by France through its Operation Turquoise, and by many non-governmental organizations. My country has also called for more effective and persistent participation by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations in the peace process aimed at putting an end to the tragedy. Having hailed the welcome initiatives of non-governmental organizations and of Gabonese citizens to ease the suffering of our brethren in Rwanda, my Government has decided, first, to make a voluntary contribution - the funds for which have been released - to the United Nations Special Fund for Rwanda. Secondly, it will provide assistance to the afflicted populations, principally in the form of food products, clothing and medicine, which my Government is committed to sending to Kigali by its own means. The 'air-bridge' for that purpose opened on 18 September 1994, when we delivered the initial portion of this aid to the Secretary-General's Special Representative for Rwanda. Thirdly, if the need arises, we shall take in Rwandese orphans, in collaboration with international organizations such as the United Nations Children's Fund and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. In eastern Europe, the horror continues in Bosnia and Herzegovina; the negative result of the recent referendum is not likely to allow the speedy settlement of this conflict, which has gone on far too long. Here again, Gabon appeals to the parties to the conflict to bring peace to their region. These tragedies have put the Organization to a harsh test. But, despite the uncertainty of the post-cold-war period, the United Nations remains a priority forum for creating and nurturing the collective search for peace. To do this, the passivity displayed by nearly all participants in international life must be replaced by a determination to take preventive action. In that connection, the Agenda for Peace outlines the action that needs to be taken to avert, as quickly as possible, situations that could give rise to conflicts, particularly action in the framework of preventive diplomacy. For its part, Africa has not been idle in this sphere. Indeed, our major concern is reflected in the creation by the OAU of machinery for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts. In the same spirit, the States of central Africa have established a permanent mechanism dealing with questions of security in central Africa, with a mandate to promote confidence-building measures among member States in line with the principles of the Charter. The agreement on a non-aggression pact at the September 1993 Libreville meeting, the signing ceremony for which has just taken place in Yaounde, Cameroon, attests eloquently to the dedication of our States to the values of peace and solidarity. But to be more effective operationally, and to play an active role in the decentralization of peace-keeping operations, this machinery should benefit from logistical and technical assistance from the United Nations. To take due account of the new international political landscape I have described, the desired developments must be multidimensional, dealing not only with the structure of the United Nations, but also with its activities. I am pleased to note that there have been various initiatives to that end, including the vast process of restructuring the principal organs, which was begun two years ago. This has been reflected in such things as the beginnings of a debate on the reform of the Security Council, with a view to enlarging its membership and ensuring equitable representation of Member States. Gabon is in favour of such reform. It is agreed today that international peace and security are no longer limited to political and military considerations, but that they encompass such diverse areas as the economic, social, humanitarian and environmental spheres. We think the time has come for this vision, which accords with the Charter, to be reflected in reality. To be sure, since the founding of the United Nations mankind has made major economic, scientific and technological progress. But, despite these notable advances, some parts of the world continue to live in poverty and destitution. For Africa, the United Nations has set up two successive programmes: the United Nations Programme for African Economic Recovery and Development, and the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. Both were intended to contribute to the continent's sustained economic growth. While the African States have fulfilled their obligations under these programmes, we have to say that the industrialized countries have failed to honour their commitments. It is also regrettable that the Rio Summit on environment and development, which had given rise to new hope and which for the first time had incorporated the concept of sustainable development, is suffering from a glaring lack of international support. Our expectations are not being met with respect to the financing needed to implement Agenda 21. The Agenda for Development proposed by the Secretary-General should fill these gaps once the international community realizes the interdependence of our interests. I want to reaffirm Gabon's commitment to the major principles in that Agenda: peace, the foundation of development; the economy, the engine of progress; the environment, a basis for sustainability; social justice, a pillar of society; and democracy, the model of good governance. Yet beyond those principles we must study ways and means to implement the Agenda for Development, scrupulously taking into account the major concerns of the African continent. In any event, for the countries of the South, the success of existing or future machinery for cooperation will depend on the role reserved for development activities and for the reduction of inequity. Here, the new World Trade Organization, which from January 1995 will replace the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, will have to respond to the needs arising from differences in the level of development of the rich countries and of the less-well-off countries. After 30 years of independence, we must observe that African States do not always have the means to satisfy their peoples' health, educational and cultural concerns. Numerous factors contribute to keeping our countries in the spiral of underdevelopment. The first is that our countries are unable to process the commodities they produce or set their prices. This leads to a drastic deterioration of the terms of trade, because the prices of raw materials are not indexed to those of the finished products. Moreover, the external debt and the cost of servicing it are a serious obstacle to the development of African countries, as is clear from the ratio of debt to exports of goods and services for Africa as a whole. Gabon, too, is affected by this situation, and for several years has been engaging in structural adjustment programmes. These programmes have not always yielded the expected results, especially since our economy is marked by, inter alia, excessive dependence on the outside world and by growing public and private debt. In this context, on 12 January 1994, there was a 50 per cent devaluation of the parity of the currency of the African States of the franc zone compared to that of the French franc. At the time of the devaluation all the African countries of the franc zone were given equal treatment, but today discrimination between those States is being exercised. Gabon thus remains the only country which, because of its intermediate revenues, is refused access to the loan windows in flexible conditions, on the pretext that its per capita gross national product is too high. It is true that devaluation could have some positive aspects, including a relaunching of investment, more competitive exports, a revitalization of the agricultural sector and a reduction of imports. But we believe that it is necessary, indeed urgent, to receive assistance in order to establish new machinery to help the most disadvantaged and the most vulnerable persons. Our common destiny and international solidarity should prompt us to transcend our differences and give priority only to meeting the needs and ensuring the well- being of mankind. The interdependence that flows from this dictates that the industrialized countries, with their technological know-how and financial resources, should support the efforts of the weakest and most disadvantaged to participate in the establishment of this new global economy. These days, States are confronted with trans-border scourges which individually they are incapable of stemming. That is true of the phenomenon of increasing flows of refugees and illegal immigrants, the illegal drug trade, malaria and the AIDS pandemic. Joint and coordinated international action is required to attack the roots of these evils. It is the custom today for everyone to emphasize the importance of the trilogy of democracy, development and human rights. In that respect - and specifically concerning democracy - Gabon, which was one of the very first African countries to return to political pluralism, has been making an effort for several years now to establish new institutions adapted to democratic rules and to promote the emergence of a genuine state of law. But we are aware that time is needed to achieve this. In this framework, recently, in the presence of international observers, negotiations were held between representatives of the Opposition and representatives of the Government to seek ways and means to establish democracy by consensus - the sole guarantee of peace and social cohesion. Unquestionably, the founding fathers of the United Nations wished it above all to respond positively to the questions the peoples were asking about the best way to organize international life. The statement of purposes and principles within the very first provisions of the Charter eloquently attests to this. Hence it is up to the United Nations system and Member States to ensure that at each session the General Assembly takes a decisive step towards the attainment of these purposes and principles that we hold so dear. I hope that this will be done at the forty-ninth session. I should like to join others in congratulating the President on his election to preside over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. The wealth of his political and professional experience and his personal qualities will undoubtedly benefit the work of the Assembly in the coming months. He takes over his new responsibilities from His Excellency Mr. Insanally who, as President during the forty-eighth session, continued to give the presidency that forward-looking spirit which is so important as the United Nations system and, at its very centre, the General Assembly increasingly become the effective focal point of international life. Five years after the end of the Cold War, the international community continues to witness painful situations of political, economic and social strife. Daily the media bombard us with images of misery: victims of wars fleeing combat zones, abandoning all they had worked for and accumulated in a life-time; refugees crossing deserts or oceans in superhuman efforts to distance themselves from situations where human dignity is trampled upon, where the essence of human rights has long been lost; the poor and the needy nurturing hopes of escaping from communities where development is absent or denied. The list of anguish is endless. Most of us are disturbed and angered at the apparent impotence of the international community to attack the root causes of such misery. We tend to link many of these situations to the end of the Cold War and its aftermath, aware that the transition in international power relations has had an effect which goes far beyond its immediate political impact. It has influenced in different ways the economic and social dynamic not only of those States undergoing the process of transition, but even others - a spill-over effect which is as difficult to contain as it is difficult to identify and map out. We have entered a historical phase marked and chequered by regional conflicts - wars which sow death and destruction and erase social and economic achievements in a matter of weeks if not days. There is the temptation to develop an immunity to the tragic consequences of these ills by giving up on our collective responsibility to alleviate suffering. Every time the international community gives in to this temptation it is rudely awakened by degenerating situations which we cannot but find shocking. Antagonisms with roots which go back in time have exploded into situations of conflict and civil strife, exposing a heritage of ethnic, religious and tribal animosities. Massacres on an unprecedented scale have devastated our collective conscience. The transition has created a vacuum. In attempting to fill this vacuum, the new and frail forces of democratic political leadership often have to encounter antagonistic economic, political and social forces interested in carving a niche for themselves through the perpetuation of 10 instability. Illegal drug and arms traffickers, money launderers and unscrupulous economic operators stand to profit from an unregulated fiscal, political and social environment. They often join forces in efforts to undermine the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law. The international community has long realized that such ills cannot be tackled in isolation. Cooperation has been strengthened in areas where borders fail to stop the spread of criminality. The ills of the present age also require enhanced bilateral and regional cooperation. Regions may learn lessons from each other as different illicit trade routes ranging from drugs to plutonium, appear to spread their tentacles to encompass the globe. The heart of the matter lies, however, in rehabilitating those social environments which the illicit trade invades, thrives upon and exploits. Safeguarding the dignity of every human being, through the full respect for the right to life, liberty and security of person must remain the basis of our collective action. We all declare ourselves committed to the principles enshrined 46 years ago in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This commitment, however, has oft fallen victim to that pragmatic approach which demands looking the other way - a philosophy that justifies living with the lesser evil, supposedly to avoid the greater evil. The fallacy of this approach has been seen in many and varied instances, ranging from corruption within the body politic, to totalitarianism at the national level, to trans-boundary crime and terrorism at the international level. For five years we have been speaking of the creation of a new international order. The words and setting were praiseworthy, as was the commitment to do good. In our euphoria, we assumed that our desire for a new world community where law, order and development should prevail was universally shared. Crude realities have proved that in making this assumption we failed to note that our desire for good could be matched, indeed challenged, by the evil intentions of others. It was thought that this challenge could come only from existing regimes which we rightfully tried to treat as outcasts - little realizing that the roots of the issue were more widespread and lay in the lack of balance and harmonious development of economic and socio-political systems. The conclusion of the Uruguay Round this year and the setting up of the World Trade Organization could provide us with a channel where trade practices become more transparent and fair. Trade is the driving force behind economic growth and social stability. Lack of viable economic activity erodes the basis of democratic societies, rendering them fragile and subject to instability. One cannot but praise the efforts of the peoples and Governments of many States in striving to build stable economic infrastructures. Their enterprise cannot be achieved without the constant support of developed States with long-established free-market economies. A new approach requires that we gird ourselves properly to face the challenges ahead. On the national level, political and socio-economic structures must ensure dignity for one and all. On 21 September, Malta celebrated the thirtieth anniversary of its independence. During these three decades, many were the challenges faced and the lessons learnt. Democracy based on the dignity of each citizen is a task that requires an ever-renewing commitment by all social forces to the right to freedom of opinion. Pluralism is an essential catalyst in the democratic process and requires that we honour its full meaning in the different areas where it manifests itself. However much this impetus is strengthened when fired by Governments, it is handicapped each time an authoritarian Government assumes that it can rule by diktat. During the past seven years my Government has committed itself to strengthening pluralism in such vital areas as broadcasting, education and trade. Pluralism is a vote of confidence in the people, and a democratically elected Government cannot but reciprocate the trust bestowed by the electorate. The consolidation of democracy was not the only challenge we had to face. During these 30 years we radically transformed an economy entirely dependent on the presence of foreign military bases into one benefiting from thriving financial, industrial and tourism sectors. This transition has given Malta the economic buoyancy required of it as a prospective member of the European Union. We note with satisfaction the decision, taken last June at the Corfu Summit, that Malta will be included in the next phase of the enlargement of the European Union. This state of economic well-being has enabled the Government to consolidate a social policy inspired by the concept of solidarity. Over three decades we have 11 introduced schemes ensuring equal access for men and women by providing appropriate formal educational and social structures. In enacting this policy, the Government has not ignored its responsibility to ensure a dignified life for all through programmes that range from free medical aid for all citizens to care of the elderly and integration of the handicapped. Today, Malta can rightfully claim to be a nation at peace with itself and with others. Though conscious of our limitations, we have never let size inhibit our mature involvement in the international arena. On the occasion of the recent signing of the Agreement on the implementation of part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, many representatives acknowledged Malta’s role in launching the concept of common heritage - a concept that today is the guiding principle in a number of conventions. Malta stands committed to the creation of a global society based on the principles of dignity and solidarity. Throughout the centuries, Malta has had its existence marked by the contradiction between its size and its strategic importance. This has necessitated an understanding of the importance of regional stability through cooperation. Since independence, we have cultivated an awareness of the importance of stability in the Mediterranean. The progress registered in the Middle East peace process following the signing of the Declaration of Principles and the Washington Accords of 13 September 1993 makes it easier to understand the importance of the interdependence of European security and Mediterranean security. Malta has been the first in international forums - and has sometimes been alone - to advocate the need for a Mediterranean dialogue, and it has been consistent in advancing proposals to this end. Over the years since the Helsinki Summit Declaration we have promoted the link between security in Europe and security in the Mediterranean. Today, the Mediterranean dimension is high on the international agenda. From both sides of this sea of destiny the need for a Mediterranean forum has been underlined - not for the sake of creating another international body but as an aspect of the logic of existence in the light of the many problems in the region. These problems range from unemployment to overpopulation, terrorism and ethnic strife - all in a narrow highway that affects stability in the region and beyond, thus threatening the future of millions. We cannot, therefore, but identify ourselves with Foreign Minister Alain Juppé, who, in his address to this Assembly at its 8th plenary meeting, stated that France would like to see Europe organizing a forum for cooperation involving all the Mediterranean States, and would be making this one of the main goals of the forthcoming French presidency of the European Union. We also welcome the statement made at the 6th plenary meeting by the President of the Council of Ministers of the European Union - Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel - that Europe attaches great importance to security in the Mediterranean. Principled cooperation reflects a fundamental and essential Maltese social reality. It was through the extension of this matured concept to the broader European and international level that, within the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), Malta launched the initiative for the Conference to declare itself a regional arrangement for the maintenance of peace and security in the terms of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter - a declaration adopted by CSCE Heads of State and Government at the Helsinki II Summit. In calling for a new approach at the regional level, we cannot but renew our support for, and our commitment to, the CSCE process. The CSCE was the first body to give tangible form to the connection between the political, economic and human dimensions. The CSCE need not be copied in its detail by other regions, but it provides a model of confidence-building to which other regions can aspire. The need for a new approach has long been felt at the United Nations. Initiatives taken by Malta when it occupied the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-fifth session, four years ago, are slowly bearing fruit. However, it is only legitimate to ask whether the results are proportionate to the efforts made. My Government welcomes as a step in the right direction the recently adopted resolution on revitalization of the General Assembly. Important as it is, this step cannot but lead to others meant to enhance the role of this forum. We have to maintain the central role of the General Assembly in the framework of the United Nations. This is the only forum where all members are permanent members. We believe that the General Assembly has to develop and define the fact-finding mechanism that pertains to it. We also have to ensure what former Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar referred to as 'a balanced constitutional relationship'. The maintenance 12 of this relationship with and between the principal organs of the Organization, including the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretariat, is important not as an issue of the internal working of the Organization but because 'it bears on the guardianship of peace exercised by the United Nations '. In his report 'An Agenda for Peace', Secretary- General Boutros Boutros-Ghali underlines the relevance of the General Assembly as a universal forum by calling for recognition of its capacity to consider and recommend appropriate action in the maintenance of international peace and security. He says: 'To that end it is essential to promote its utilization by all Member States so as to bring greater influence to bear in pre-empting or containing situations which are likely to threaten peace and security.' (A/47/277, para. 36) In this respect, the reforms related to the restructuring of the Security Council, which we hope will be negotiated by next year, have a bearing because of the qualitative change they would generate. My Government is studying the proposals already submitted, including the Italian proposal presented yesterday by Foreign Minister Martino. Next year we commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations system. The international community is becoming more aware of the vast extent of common concerns which bond our fate as a global community. A number of international conventions today make specific reference to the common heritage of mankind. The universal acceptance of this principle is to our collective credit. It is proof of the sense of responsibility and equity that inspires Member States in their obligations towards present and future generations. Only an underlying solidarity can ensure the survival of the planet. This sense of inter-generation solidarity truly dignifies humanity. Malta has underlined the need for a unit to coordinate and monitor areas related to the common heritage. A convergence of all efforts becomes instrumental to the efficiency with which such initiatives, born of conventions, may work and bear fruit. A scenario marked by institutional fragmentation can be avoided only by establishing institutional oversight in the interest of the areas we hold in trust for future generations. Rather than reinventing the wheel, we are proposing a transition and evolution in the role of Trusteeship Council, for we are convinced that the Trusteeship Council could be such a point of convergence. We have taken note of the part of the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization which deals with the Trusteeship Council and, in particular, the recommendation that the General Assembly proceed with steps to eliminate that organ in accordance with Article 108 of the Charter. We agree with the Secretary- General that with the end of the Trusteeship Agreement on Palau the Council, as conceived, has concluded its task. The concept of trust - a concept of English Common Law which is fundamental in its fiduciary nature - is one that reflects the mission of the League of Nations and later the United Nations in so far as certain Territories were concerned. We have to apply the concept of trust to new realities. We believe that the United Nations holds in trust for humanity its common heritage and its common concerns: the environment; the resources of the sea and of the seabed; the climate; the rights of future generations; and the safeguarding of the rights of peoples in situations of complete breakdown of the organs of the State. We believe that we hold these in trust for humanity, and an enhanced and redefined Trusteeship Council can be the right organ for this purpose. The challenges of the present times demand that we look at the United Nations system with innovative eyes. We cannot aspire to a new world order and yet persist in viewing the institutional mechanisms of the United Nations through the same cold-war lenses, which are ill focused for our times and now shattered by the course of history. We need to view the United Nations as a complex adaptive system, a system which, without renouncing its original ideals and basic principles, responds adequately and promptly to contemporary needs, a proactive United Nations rather than a reactive one, a United Nations which moulds a new mentality apart from ironing creases and mending tears in the fabric of international relations. The challenge today is not a physical dividing wall. This generation can one day look back with pride at what it has achieved. The recent ceremonies marking the departure of foreign troops stationed in Germany is a reminder of how significantly different political realities are today from the days when the Berlin Wall cut across a city, a nation and a continent with the same callousness with which it cut across the soul and spirit of Europe. 13 Equally breathtaking was the transition from a South Africa built on the bastion of apartheid to a democratic South Africa which cherishes the dignity of all of its citizens. The walls of division are also being dismantled in the Middle East, where political determination and goodwill can and should ensure the full enjoyment of sovereignty and political rights for all peoples living in the region. However, there are many other situations at which we shall some day look back in anger. The challenge to our political will today is the tragedy of the children in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the rotting, butchered bodies floating in the rivers of Rwanda, the millions of refugees with their lives wasted in never-ending waiting, the other millions of depressed and oppressed living an existence without dignity. 1995 is a year of challenge. It is the year of the World Summit for Social Development and of the Fourth World Conference on Women, the next two links in the triad begun with the recent International Conference on Population and Development at Cairo. Three Conferences which, with Habitat II, require a global approach focused on development rather than on the promotion of hidden agendas which are irrelevant in the resolution of essential issues - essential issues which represent a billion people living in abject poverty, half of whom go to bed hungry every day. There is a poverty curtain which continues to create a great divide and which becomes more impenetrable when we wilfully shut our eyes to the concept of solidarity. Empowerment becomes a mere cliché if it fails to ensure a life in dignity for this ocean of humanity denied of its most basic right to life, liberty and security of person. In issuing declarations we do well to underline our commitment to eradicating the root causes that generate so much misery, anguish and pain. We do even better when we make firm commitments on assistance to States which require our solidarity, States in need that require us to match our words with deeds. Solidarity means reaching out rather than holding out. Solidarity is the building block of greater security to ensure the livelihood and dignity of millions. Solidarity is a key factor in the promotion of development in the lives and minds of men, and hence in the complex relations that guide the international community. Our legacy to future generations would be a poor one if development and solidarity were not matched by compliance with international standards of human rights. The importance of the rule of law and democracy requires that the international community safeguard human rights. Denial of liberty is the refusal of that oxygen that enables a developed community to live in harmony with itself and others. The challenge of the twenty-first century is not liberty in the abstract: it is the responsibility of the United Nations to be an instrument in forging principles into concrete action. A second-generation United Nations facing the challenge of solidarity must serve as a guidepost to humanity in its long walk towards peace in freedom. On behalf of the people and Government of the Kingdom of Lesotho, and on my own behalf, I have the pleasure to extend to you, Sir, our 4 warmest congratulations on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at the forty-ninth session. Your election is a fitting tribute to the efforts that your country has made and continues to make in international relations, especially its mediatory role in conflict situations on our continent. Our special thanks also go to your predecessor, the Ambassador of the Republic of Guyana, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, whose abilities and clear vision in steering the Assembly during the forty-eighth session will forever be remembered with appreciation. We are also indebted to our distinguished Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, whose track record is without parallel. My delegation is proud to welcome the Republic of South Africa, now free and democratic, back into the international fold. The resumption of the right of South Africa, a founding Member of the United Nations, to participate in the deliberations of the General Assembly and other organs of the United Nations, is very timely, coming as it does as we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. Even as we approach the threshold of the twenty-first century, our world is still mired in conflicts. Our Organization must strive to contain these and other situations, which are the legacy of the post-cold-war era. We are entering a new era, one in which democratic and inclusive global institutions can play a principal role in building a better world. It is still difficult, however, to have a clear vision of the future role of the United Nations in the new international political order that is emerging following the end of the cold war. As it approaches its fiftieth anniversary, the United Nations faces a number of challenges; it has to become a real instrument of international legality, peace and security. The Organization needs to have the means and the flexibility to play an increasingly active role in these unpredictable times. Unfortunately, however, the United Nations of today still reflects the structure of the world of 1945 as seen by the victors of the Second World War. United Nations organs such as the Security Council need to be revitalized and democratized so that they may become more representative of the regions encompassed in this Organization. The General Assembly, as one of the principal organs of the United Nations, an organ that is universal in character and one in which Member States enjoy sovereign equality, needs revitalization as part of the current process of the transformation and reform of the United Nations system. The United Nations system should be able, at all times, to respond rapidly to changes and new developments as they occur around the world. In the last few years we have witnessed significant events of historic moment. We had not anticipated that the Iron Curtain would be dismantled so quickly; nor could we have foreseen the demolition of the Berlin Wall and the eradication of apartheid in South Africa. The United Nations may not possess the clairvoyance to predict events before they occur, but it should have the capacity to respond to developments and crises rapidly and effectively as they arise. The events in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, recently, in Rwanda starkly demonstrate the sluggishness of the decision-making process and the lack of responsiveness on the part of the system. Disarmament, especially in the nuclear field, remains an urgent concern of this Organization. Its relationship to international peace and security is today more evident than ever before. We are mindful of the fact that in recent years, at the height of the cold war, the world experienced a period of uncertain peace, a peace that was sustained more by the fear of a nuclear holocaust than by the existence of harmonious relationships among nations, especially the opposing nuclear blocs, or by progress towards complete and general disarmament. Today, conditions exist for the establishment of a stable and peaceful global environment. It is under such conditions that the world can begin to enjoy what may be called the peace dividend, whereby global expenditures will be shifted away from preparations for war and unending concern for national security towards investment in development. Solid groundwork for cooperation and confidence-building has been successfully laid in a number of regions. The progress in this regard bodes well for the future. In our region, the continental organization, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), has established a mechanism for the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts. The apparent inability of the world community to act in a timely and decisive manner during some tragic conflict situations in our continent has taught Africa the cardinal lesson that we cannot continue to delegate our responsibilities to the rest of the world. We have seen evidence of this a number of times, particularly during crisis situations in Rwanda and Somalia. Africa is taking up more seriously the challenge of fending for itself. We shall, however, continue to 5 count on international solidarity and cooperation during the trial stages of the mechanism. In Liberia, the OAU, in conjunction with the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the United Nations, continues to seek a solution to the conflict on the basis of the implementation of the Cotonou Peace Agreement. We are happy with the progress achieved thus far in Mozambique. The situation in Angola, however, continues to be of grave concern to us. We urge the parties involved to show political will and to negotiate in good faith in order to ensure the early establishment of lasting peace, stability and development. The complementarity between democracy and the observance of human rights on the one hand, and development on the other, can no longer be a subject of debate. Democracy is the cornerstone of every civil society and the preservation and sustaining of its institutions should be binding on all of us. The expression by the international community of the will to cooperate in this endeavour has been clear in recent times. If it is necessary to look backward to yesterday, it is only to draw lessons that will enable us to march confidently and resolutely into the future, a future in which our citizens will live in harmony and enjoy prosperity. The attainment of democracy, peace and development as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and in the charters of the Organization of African Unity and other organizations has become the responsibility of all nations. Where these principles are threatened by those who are reluctant to come to terms with the realities of today, the international community has stood up resolutely in defence of our fledgling democracies. This attitude augurs well for the new world order we seek to establish. The events in Haiti and our recent experience in Lesotho demonstrate beyond the shadow of a doubt that young and fledgling democracies can be seriously threatened or turned off their course. In the early morning of 17 August this year, the people of Lesotho woke up to hear an announcement over Radio Lesotho that shocked and bewildered them. According to that announcement, certain clauses of the Constitution of Lesotho had been suspended, and as a result of that illegal and arbitrary act the democratically-elected parliament and Government of Lesotho had, it was said, been dissolved. The constitutional crisis we faced has since been resolved; however, I recall these events because of the important lesson they brought home to all of us who were directly concerned. First, it became abundantly clear that the support for democracy among our people cuts straight across party political lines. Secondly, the international community can no longer countenance an open attack upon democratic principles and the institutions of democratic governance. The people of Lesotho rose up in large numbers to demonstrate their displeasure and their abhorrence of the disguised coup against their elected Government. Despite the repressive measures taken by those who had brazenly intruded upon the constitutional order of our country, the people sent a clear signal that the powers of a tyrant are forever circumscribed by the will and the determination of the people to resist oppression and by their desire to be governed only with their own consent. I take this opportunity to thank the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity and the commonwealth of nations for supporting my Government and my people in their struggle to maintain legality, constitutionality and democratic rule in Lesotho. I need to mention specifically the timely and principled intervention by President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, President Nelson Mandela of South Africa and President Ketumile Masire of Botswana. It is through their mediatory efforts that we were able to emerge from the unfortunate constitutional crisis that we experienced. The people of Lesotho will always remember that when they faced a critical test, when the foundations of their young democracy were under attack and threatened with wanton destruction, the friends of democracy stood firm and remained resolute to the end. The member States of the European Union and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) never wavered in their support for democracy in Lesotho. The Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, the Federal Republic of Germany and Sweden took a stand and immediately suspended all economic assistance to Lesotho, thus sending a clear signal to the usurpers of power that what is really here to stay is democracy, and nothing else. We in Lesotho believe that the observance of human rights would go a long way towards eliminating hotbeds of tension and civil strife. In almost every country experiencing some kind of civil strife, it will always be found that the first casualty of that strife is human rights. It is in this context that, recently, Lesotho ratified quite a number of international human rights instruments. At the regional level, we all support the work of SADC, which has recently decided to establish a sector to deal 6 with human rights questions. We pledge to work with our fellow SADC member States as we develop this new sector of our organization. We also pledge to fulfil our obligations at the international level through the various United Nations bodies engaged in human rights work. Mr. President, permit me to extend my delegation’s congratulations to you and your country, Côte d’Ivoire, on the occasion of your election to the high office of the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that with your proven diplomatic skills and considerable experience the affairs of the General Assembly will be conducted in a manner that will redound to the credit of this institution. At the same time I must express my delegation’s heartfelt appreciation and thanks to your immediate predecessor in office, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, for the competence which he demonstrated in the discharge of his duties. His commendable performance is a source of pride to me as it is to all citizens of the Caribbean region. (spoke in French) I am very happy that we are here with you today, Sir. (spoke in English) While the maintenance of peace and security remains the main objective of the United Nations, the global environment, the widening gap between rich and poor nations, the failure of the ill-defined new world order to materialize, and the forces released by the ending of the cold war present the Organization with new problems and challenges. As regional conflicts erupt, the consequential increase in the number of displaced persons and refugees exerts greater pressure on the United Nations peace- keeping apparatus at a time when its available resources are already severely taxed. It is imperative, therefore, that the United Nations continue with its restructuring programme and with those initiatives calculated to increase efficiency, reduce costs, and enhance the capability of the Organization to achieve desirable results. However, cost-effectiveness, commendable as that may be, should not be at the expense of those worthwhile programmes designed to benefit small developing nations. We firmly believe that the United Nations has the capacity to maintain those programmes while it strives simultaneously to exercise the necessary budgetary restraints. The ethnic and tribal conflicts in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda and the reported acts of genocide and other atrocities are troubling and must exercise the minds and hearts of human beings everywhere. The international community cannot appear to condone such reprehensible acts, and appropriate measures must be taken to punish those responsible. Accordingly, Dominica unhesitatingly supports the establishment of international tribunals for the trial and punishment of those persons found guilty of crimes against humanity. The Commonwealth of Dominica supports the indefinite and unconditional extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and as we look forward optimistically to a nuclear-free world we call upon all nations possessing weapons of mass destruction to join in a cooperative effort to reduce and finally to eliminate those weapons from the face of the Earth. We must also express concern at the apparent unwillingness of the international community to stem the increase in the rate of production of conventional arms of increasing sophistication and potential for destruction. Acquired in 11 many instances by third world nations, ostensibly to maintain secure borders and deter aggression, these weapons very often become effective instruments of internal repression and the cause of national and regional instability. Time after time the United Nations is called upon to expend its limited resources in repairing the damage and in alleviating the consequential suffering and misery. We are consistent in maintaining that a reordering of priorities is called for and that a slight shifting of resources away from the acquisition of unnecessary arsenals and into development programmes would result in tremendous social and economic benefits to the citizens of many developing countries. In many countries human rights abuses occur on a daily basis. Dominica’s respect for human rights and its commitment to ensure that the rights of every citizen are protected cannot be questioned. It is in keeping with that commitment that the Commonwealth of Dominica applauds the establishment of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and will support efforts to make that Office and the Centre for Human Rights effective instruments in the promotion and protection of human rights. We believe, however, that in the discharge of his responsibilities the task of the High Commissioner would be significantly strengthened if the United Nations General Assembly were to abandon its present selective condemnation of human rights abuses. Human rights abuses should be condemned wherever and whenever they occur and no nation should be permitted to take comfort from the fact that its violation of human rights covenants will escape the glare of publicity and the strictures of the international community. The readmission of a democratic, non-racial South Africa to the United Nations on 23 June 1994 is a source of tremendous pleasure for my delegation and a tribute to the many persons and organizations, both inside and outside the United Nations, who worked so tirelessly in the long and hard struggle to put an end to the pernicious system of apartheid. The majority of the people of South Africa must be congratulated on their sustained effort and determination, as well as on their conciliatory attitude which augurs well for the new South Africa. Above all we must congratulate and applaud the President, Mr. Nelson Mandela, and his Second Deputy President, Mr. de Klerk, on the courage, considerable skill and political enlightenment which they jointly and effectively harnessed in reaching an accomplishment that may eventually be regarded as a model for the world. The journey has only just begun. Many difficulties lie ahead but there are reasons to be optimistic. With the assistance and support of the international community South Africa will succeed. The progress that has been made in the bilateral negotiations between Israel and its Arab neighbours in the Middle East is heart-warming indeed. With the first steps having been taken on the road to Palestinian autonomy in the West Bank and Gaza, and with the signing of the accord between Jordan and Israel, there appears to be an excellent opportunity for an eventual resolution of the conflict that has plagued that region for too long. Optimism must be tempered with caution, however. The implementation of the accords and full realization of Palestinian autonomy will depend for their success on generous financial support, both private and public. And while the United Nations must not be intrusive, its interest in seeing that the legitimate hopes, aspirations and security needs of the people of the area are realized imposes upon it a duty to continue to be seized with the subject-matter and to continue to monitor the process and the progress towards a full and just peace in the Middle East. In different forums and at various times since September 1991, the Commonwealth of Dominica has consistently called for the ousting of the military regime in Port au Prince, the return of President Aristide to Haiti and the restoration of democracy and the rule of law to that country. For three years the military leaders in Haiti have authorized, encouraged and condoned brutal acts of revenge and wanton violence against the citizens of Haiti and have continued to exercise governmental power in defiance of world opinion. They temporized by entering into the Governors Island Agreement, which they later failed to honour. Their intransigence and unreliability led the Security Council to conclude that the unique character of the situation in Haiti required an exceptional response and that there was need for the use of all necessary means to facilitate the departure from Haiti of the military leaders and the prompt return of the legitimately elected President. Faced with the prospect of having to confront an overwhelming multinational force, the military leaders have finally decided to step down, and while recent events give reason for pause, the prospect of the restoration of democracy to Haiti seems decidedly brighter than at any time in the last 36 months. When the Haitian people were the victims of officially sanctioned brutality and violence, we felt their pain. When President Aristide returns, we will rejoice with them. We wish the Haitian people well, and we will do whatever we can to 12 assist in their efforts to attain that measure of freedom that can come only from a government established on democratic principles. President Aristide is devoted to Haiti and the well-being of Haitians. We must support him and encourage him in this daunting and lonely task that he has undertaken for his people. However, as friends of the Haitian people, we plead with them to understand that democracy cannot be imposed from outside; it can only develop from a genuine desire of the people of Haiti of all persuasions. A political environment of intense hatred and passionate desire for revenge is not fertile ground for a young and fragile democracy. Success in their new endeavour will require that nobility of spirit that seeks the path of reconciliation and trust and eschews vengeance and recriminations. No one can pretend that the task will be easy, but the following excerpt from a speech delivered by Archbishop Desmond Tutu at the commemoration of the Day of the African Child on 16 June 1994 might be instructive to the Haitian people. Speaking of his beloved South Africa, the venerable archbishop said: “The Minister of Justice of South Africa was detained several times. He suffers from a heart condition. The security forces tried to kill him by swapping his tablets. Today he is writing, drafting the legislation for an amnesty to forgive the security forces that wanted to kill him. If it can happen in a South Africa where it is said the problem is so intractable, no country in the world can ever again have an excuse for not being able to resolve its problem. God is saying, I set before you South Africa as a paradigm. This is how it can be done. There is hope for the world when South Africa can become as it has become.” We are in accord with Archbishop Tutu, and we are firmly of the view that if it can be done in South Africa it can and must be done in Haiti. The exclusion of the Republic of China on Taiwan from membership in this body and from participation in the activities of its various agencies continues to be of concern to us. It appears incongruous to us that an industrial country of 21 million people with a democratic Government, with full membership in the Asian Development Bank, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum, the Pacific Basin Economic Council and the Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, and with the capacity to make meaningful and worthwhile contributions to the activities of the United Nations is denied membership when everyone agrees that it exercises sovereign authority over a defined geographical area. On the principle of universality alone, the request of the Republic of China on Taiwan for membership in the United Nations is justifiable. We do not believe that the admission of the Republic of China on Taiwan precludes eventual unification. On the contrary, in our view it is likely to help the process along, and no one can pretend that parallel representation stands in the way. The citizens of the Republic of China on Taiwan deserve to be accorded those rights and privileges enjoyed by citizens of all sovereign States, and the commonwealth of Dominica advocates and supports the admission of the Republic of China on Taiwan to full membership in the United Nations. We are gratified that the participants at the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo have wisely arrived at a consensus that gives support to the view that, in the words of one commentator, 'sustainable development cannot be realized without the full engagement and complete empowerment of women'. That proposition has long been acknowledged and incorporated into our decision-making processes, to the extent that today women have equal access to education at all levels and gender equality manifests itself in all facets of life in Dominica. We realize that the plan of action requires increased spending on social programmes for its viability, and it is hoped that at the Conference in Copenhagen in 1995, participants from donor and recipient countries will arrive at a reasonable formula in that regard. We support the establishment of the World Trade Organization and the liberalization of trade practices, but we need to remind the international community that fragile economies of small island states can be easily destroyed if free trade does not embody that measure of fairness necessary for their survival. We require that the larger and economically successful States be mindful of the need for poor small States to survive. The recent formation of the Association of Caribbean States will, we hope, provide a framework for increased trade among the States in the area and enhance the capability of the region in its search for ways to reach beneficial accommodation with more powerful trading groups in the hemisphere. We look forward to the forthcoming Summit of the Americas and the proposed frank and detailed examination of such issues as the hemispheric integration 13 process - including a hemispheric free trade zone - the role of multilateral financial institutions, sustainable development, and resource flows and debt in hemispheric development. We hope that out of that gathering will come not only a keener appreciation of the vulnerabilities of the smaller States in the region but also a greater impetus for collaboration on matters of regional trade and development. After 49 years, its imperfections notwithstanding, the United Nations remains the world’s greatest deliberative body and mankind’s greatest hope for survival in a reasonably well-ordered and peaceful global community. As the United Nations prepares to celebrate its fiftieth anniversary, we need to place on record our recognition of its many worthwhile accomplishments, and we hope that it will continue in its search for new and innovative ways to meet the challenges of the future. My congratulations, Mr. President, on your election to this high office. You are well known in United Nations circles and your election is a tribute to your country, Côte d’Ivoire, and to you. May I also congratulate Ambassador Insanally and thank him for his great contribution. We are proud that a fellow member of the Commonwealth has served the United Nations with such skill and distinction. It gives me great pleasure to welcome South Africa back to the General Assembly. We have long admired the courageous leadership of President Mandela in his country’s struggle for freedom. He now faces equally great challenges in rebuilding South Africa. We wish him success. I must also congratulate the people of Palestine on their courage and vision in signing the historic Peace Agreements. The people of Palestine also face the challenge of putting their painful past behind them and of building a peaceful and prosperous future. To succeed they will need the support of the international community and the United Nations. In our region the people of Cambodia are also struggling to build a new future. The United Nations played a crucial role in Cambodia, but some obstacles remain. My country supports the efforts of King Norodom Sihanouk and his Government to rebuild and reunite Cambodia. We wish them success. The end of the cold war has placed economics at the top of the international agenda. The challenge is how to increase economic cooperation through more trade and investment. The world now needs a stable international environment to allow this to happen. We must resist the trend towards protectionism. Instead, we must encourage and reward those who liberalize and open up their economies. The United Nations and its specialized agencies can help in this. But the end of the cold war has stretched the resources of the United Nations. Bosnia, Rwanda, Somalia, Haiti and other trouble areas are consuming much of the limited financial and manpower resources of the United Nations, and this has reduced its role in promoting development. It is tragic that problems of development are on the back-burner. This is not the fault of the United Nations. The United Nations can do no more than its Members are willing to do. One way to reduce the drain on United Nations resources is for regional organizations to work with the United Nations in accordance with Chapter VIII of its Charter. We may not have fully used the potential of Chapter VIII. As the Secretary-General has pointed out, regional arrangements can help to reduce the burden on the United Nations. The United Nations takes the primary responsibility for international peace and security, but regional organizations such as the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) can reduce its load through preventive diplomacy and regional economic cooperation. They can complement the United Nations. Of course, there are many regional organizations; every region has its own. But not all of them work. If we are to realize the potential of Chapter VIII, we need fresh approaches to regional arrangements. Regional organizations must be realistic in their goals. They have to build a framework for cooperation which suits their conditions. ASEAN, of which Brunei is a member, has achieved some success. ASEAN offers one possible vision of regional cooperation and development. We do not have set institutions and legal undertakings, as does the European Union. Our aim is more modest. We seek to foster a culture of cooperation. Through consultation, consensus and cooperation, we have been able to contain, resolve or reduce our differences. We have concentrated on working together for our common interests. This is a process of enlarging a set of shared values. Since ASEAN was formed in 1967, its members have evolved an informal style of sorting out their differences. Cooperation is not the result of formal agreements but comes from a strong sense of common purpose. We are not without our problems. Most ASEAN countries have unresolved territorial questions with one another. Sensitive questions of ethnicity, culture and religion are often involved in our relations with each other. We do not deny the existence of these issues, but we continue to work together wherever we can. Differences among us do not stop cooperation for mutual benefit. It is wiser for regional organizations to start with less ambitious goals. It took ASEAN a quarter of a century, from 1967 to 1992, to establish habits of close cooperation and consultation. Only after this was achieved did ASEAN feel confident enough to take the significant, though modest, decision to set up an ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) within 15 years from 1992. We are now discussing how we can speed up AFTA and complete it within 10 years. We have also formed a number of growth triangles straddling the adjacent territories of three or more member countries. We are all members of the Asia- Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC), an organization for economic cooperation and trade liberalization, which will give greater opportunities to all. Because of such cooperation and the general stability of the region, trade and investments have greatly increased. All ASEAN countries are industrializing rapidly, with high growth rates. I offer these comments on ASEAN in the hope that they can contribute to discussions that will strengthen the United Nations system. ASEAN is well aware of its own limits and limitations. ASEAN does not exist in a vacuum. We could not have succeeded without a favourable international environment. ASEAN is not an alternative to the United Nations. Where ASEAN succeeded, as in Cambodia, it was because we worked with the major Powers within a framework defined by the United Nations. Otherwise, we would have failed. We will and must continue to work closely with the United Nations. All regional institutions need the over-arching framework of the United Nations. The United Nations, and particularly the permanent members of the Security Council, must retain primary responsibility for international peace and security. No regional organization can succeed if it shuts itself off from the world. Our goal is an ASEAN of all South- East Asian countries. We are gradually creating what can be loosely described as a culture of peace and security in South-East Asia. We hope to extend it by linking up with other regional organizations in the Asia-Pacific region. ASEAN wants to engage all the major Powers in a pattern of constructive relations throughout the Asia- Pacific region. The ASEAN Regional Forum, inaugurated in Bangkok in July, brings together all major and middle- 2 sized Powers - the United States, Japan, the European Union, China, Russia, Canada, Australia, South Korea and New Zealand - in a common framework. We want the United Nations and all major Powers to associate themselves with ASEAN’s Treaty of Amity and Cooperation. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is approaching. It is an appropriate occasion for us to rethink how we can strengthen the United Nations system to enable it to face successfully the challenges of the twenty-first century. I offer my comments in the spirit of contributing to our common goal of strengthening an open world that will benefit all countries. On this solemn occasion allow me first to convey to you, Sir, on behalf of the Cambodian delegation, heartfelt congratulations on your election to the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your election is very important because it is a tribute not only to your diplomatic skills, to someone experienced in international affairs, but also to the tireless work done by Côte d’Ivoire, your glorious country, for peace. I am delighted to take this opportunity to convey to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, our satisfaction at the exemplary way in which he presided over the work of last year’s session of the General Assembly. We wish also to congratulate the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on the many efforts he has constantly made for peace and security throughout the world since he has been at the head of the Organization. The Kingdom of Cambodia reiterates its firm support to the Secretary-General. (spoke in English) It gives me particular pride to be here today as the representative of the Kingdom of Cambodia. The Royal Government under the First Prime Minister, His Royal Highness Prince Norodom Ranariddh, and the Second Prime Minister, Samdech Hun Sen, was installed as the legitimate Government of Cambodia a little more than a year ago, on 24 September 1993, through the foresight, generosity and courage of the Members of the United Nations and the bravery of the Cambodian people in choosing, through United Nations-sponsored elections, a liberal democracy, building up national reconciliation under the high guidance of His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk. I have come here today to represent the Cambodian people in expressing our warmest gratitude to the Members of the United Nations for their wonderful gift of freedom. After 23 years of war Cambodia is now at peace and able to start to move towards development, social justice and prosperity. This has not been an easy task because our financial base is still very low. As a member of the group of least developed countries, Cambodia remains one of the poorest countries in the world and a large proportion of its people are saddled with crushing poverty. But, again, the United Nations is at our side. The Bretton Woods institutions are helping us to re-establish a solid fiscal base and the specialized agencies have almost all moved in to assist development and strengthen our institutions. In the economic field, there has been some progress over the past few years. According to the 1992 report, the inflation rate was estimated to be 300 per cent, but in 1993 it dropped to 70 per cent. This year our local currency is very stable: 1 dollar is equal to 2,500 riels. Bilateral donors have also been generous, and as assistance moves from the area of emergency 10 rehabilitation to that of reconstruction, achievements are beginning to be noted. However, the most important of the Royal Government’s priorities for reconstruction and rural development have unfortunately lagged behind other kinds of development. The constraints of distance, an infrastructure ruined by two decades of war and a continuing insurgency have hampered efforts, but in our second year of office, the Government, together with our friends, will tackle those problems. Infrastructure can be rebuilt, and our king, His Majesty Norodom Sihanouk, is leading the move for reconciliation with the insurgents, the so-called Khmer Rouge group, who do not recognize the United Nations-sponsored elections and continue to challenge the legally elected democratic government, and above all have rejected the cease-fire that has been proposed through His Majesty’s tireless efforts. Please allow me to reiterate, on behalf of all the people of Cambodia, our deep and lasting gratitude to all of the States Members of the United Nations and to the individual bilateral donors who have so generously supported reconstruction in our country, both through the United Nations and its institutions, and through their pledges at the first and second ministerial meetings of the Intergovernmental Committees on the Reconstruction of Cambodia (ICORC), held in Paris and Tokyo respectively. With the assistance of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) we have now developed our first country programme, which will be presented to the Executive Board of UNDP on 6 October 1994. The UNDP is also assisting us to reform the civil administration within Cambodia. Many other specialized agencies of the United Nations are also doing excellent work within the country: the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the International Labour Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the World Food Programme, to name a few. Cambodia has itself been through the holocaust of tyranny, invasion and internal disturbances. Our National Assembly is now in the process of restoring Cambodia as a judicial State where human rights, political pluralism, liberal democracy and, above all, freedom of expression are respected, as envisaged in our Constitution. To this end, we have been grateful for the support and encouragement of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, whose close cooperation with the Cambodian Government has helped us in our task of re- establishing law and confidence in the country. Cambodia is the only country in the region to have asked the Secretary-General of the United Nations to dispatch a special representative for human rights. In comparison with the twenty years of war and totalitarianism under the previous regimes, progress has been made. We also appreciate the early visit of the newly appointed United Nations Commissioner for Human Rights, the Honorable José Ayala Lasso. Because of our own terrible experiences, Cambodia feels to the depths of its soul for the plight of the ordinary people in Rwanda. We congratulate the international community for its intervention in Rwanda and we are pleased to see that the situation is now stabilized. In particular, we wish to applaud and commend the French for the rapid action they took to help put an end to the killing and suffering of the Rwandese people. On the same basis, Cambodia wishes to call on the rival factions in the former Yugoslavia to stop their fighting and cooperate with the United Nations. Cambodia is, of course, well acquainted with the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General in the former Yugoslavia, His Excellency Mr. Yasushi Akashi, and is full of admiration for, and confidence in, his efforts to restore peace and security to the people of that troubled region. Again, from the Cambodian experience of using democratic elections as a catalyst for peace, we wish to congratulate the people of South Africa and the new democratic government led by President Nelson Mandela, on their move towards a normalization of the lives of the people and on the return of South Africa to the world’s embrace. Cambodia fully supports the Geneva Declaration of 12 August 1994 between the United States of America and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and hopes that the Declaration will be fully and sincerely implemented. Cambodia strongly supports the earnest desires of the Korean people who, in the not-too-distant future, will bring their beloved country towards full reunification. Cambodia welcomed the just initiative taken by the international community on the question of Haiti to avoid 11 bloodshed and to oversee the smooth transition to a democratically elected government. Cambodia calls on the people of Haiti to work towards the national reconciliation and development of their country under the democratically elected president, Jean Bertrand Aristide. We pray for an end to the senseless killing in Afghanistan, so that the Afghan people may be able to resume their normal lives and rebuild and develop their war-torn nation. We are pleased to see the political outcome in Northern Ireland and hope that peace and happiness will soon return to that beautiful land. The situation in the Middle East has brought us great joy. The peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinian people is the most encouraging historical event of our time. The recent accord between Israel and Jordan is definitely the right step towards peace, security and stability in that region. We encourage others to follow the example of this discussion for a peaceful world. Cambodia is situated in south-east Asia, in the Asia- Pacific region. As we have moved towards development and prosperity for the Kingdom we have welcomed the friendship of the member countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), which invited Cambodia to be a special guest for the second time at the twenty-seventh annual ministerial meeting held in Bangkok in July 1994. At an appropriate time, Cambodia looks forward with great enthusiasm to full membership in ASEAN. We will be delighted to see all 10 countries of our subregion one day join in the great ASEAN family. This will be a positive development for harmony and security in our part of the world. ASEAN has done a great deal for Cambodia during our difficult years, and for this we are eternally grateful to all of its six distinguished members: Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand. Cambodia also welcomes the positive developments around the continuing growth of the Asia Pacific Economic Community. To use the economic achievements of the most prosperous of the nations of our wider region as a springboard for further growth, peace and stability is something that Cambodia highly values. (spoke in French) In addition to the constant efforts made by the Cambodian authorities to rebuild our country after the disastrous 20 years of war, Cambodia also aspires to rejoin the international community as a State of law. The policy of neutrality and peaceful coexistence advocated by His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk since the period of Sangkum Reastr Niyum - People’s Socialist Community - which lasted from the 1950s to the 1970s, remains the key to our foreign policy in order to promote peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region. Cambodia is committed to development and peace for the well-being of our people, and we heartily welcome the important appeal by Mr. Clinton, President of the United States, for the elimination of anti-personnel land- mines throughout the world, as the sine qua non for development and lasting peace. Our people bear the scars of these deadly practices, and a sincere commitment from the international community would save the lives of innocent men, women and children throughout the world. We would like to take this opportunity to thank sincerely all donor countries for their generous contributions to the Cambodian Mine Action Centre (CMAC). The globalization of national socio-cultural policies can be harmonious only if there is close and sincere cooperation between the industrialized countries and the developing countries. Hence, we wish to pay tribute to the international community for its support for the International Committee to Save the Temples of Angkor Wat, in particular, the valuable work done by UNESCO and the École Française d’extrème orient. The temples of Angkor Wat, one of the seven wonders of the world, have been designated the common heritage of mankind. Cambodia is also concerned about environmental issues, and will be signing the Agreement to Combat Desertification in Paris. Cambodia welcomes the convening of the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen, and the World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing next year. We give particular attention to the development of our human sources, because of its implications for the process of social stabilization. Cambodia will actively participate in the work of these summits. 12 Cambodia welcomes the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and has already set up a national committee to participate in various events to be held next year. Before concluding, I wish to voice sincere gratitude to the United Nations for the deployment of peace-keeping forces, and Cambodia takes this opportunity to inform the international community that it will make available its small peace-keeping forces at the request of this Organization. In conclusion, Cambodia remains convinced that Member States will respond to emergencies and will meet their obligations. Cambodia is solemnly committed to complying with the United Nations Charter. Speaking from this high rostrum of the United Nations, I would like first of all to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the high office of the presidency of the General Assembly. I am convinced that, having received such a high honour, you will be successful in your conduct of this forum that is so important in the life of the world community. Reflecting on the past, we can state with satisfaction that the United Nations, by traversing the difficult road of overcoming political and ideological confrontation, has saved humanity from a new global catastrophe. Today we can say with confidence that the United Nations is a universally recognized instrument of peace and construction. We commend the United Nations peace-keeping and humanitarian efforts in Tajikistan. I consider it my duty to convey the sincere thanks of the Tajik people to the United Nations, the donor countries, the international organizations - in short, to everyone who is doing everything possible to help our State in these hard times. There is no need to describe in detail all the hardship that has befallen our long-suffering motherland. The wounds of the civil war, that serious illness of our society, cannot be healed either by surgical intervention or by compulsory treatment. They are healed only when the victim himself becomes aware of his affliction and makes the most effective use of all possible means necessary for recovery. To the credit of the people of my country, it should be said that they were able to put an end to bloodshed, lawlessness and terror and start a constructive life. Experiencing a severe lack of time and an extremely heavy burden of political, social and economic problems, we were able to consolidate a tendency towards the stabilization of the situation in our country. Today we can state with confidence that the situation differs radically from that prevailing at the beginning of last year. 1 Recognizing its responsibility for the destiny of the country, the Government of Tajikistan firmly declared its commitment to values common to all humanity and its resolve to start building a democratic and secular State based on the rule of law. In order to realize these intentions we have launched the constitutional process in our country. In the course of drafting the Constitution we were guided by the experience of countries with established democratic traditions and advice given by highly qualified experts of the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). We sought to take into consideration the high standards set up in the basic documents of the Helsinki process so that the new Constitution would ensure to the fullest extent possible the protection of inalienable human rights. We intend to conduct a referendum so the whole population can decide on the adoption of the new Constitution, the results of which will reinforce hope for achieving further progress in the development of society and the State. The proposed draft Constitution will provide a legal basis for subsequent democratic transformations and reforms. It will undoubtedly accelerate them and make them irreversible. Furthermore, the President of the Republic of Tajikistan, elected by the whole population, will enforce the Constitution and guarantee the State’s unity and integrity. In our domestic policy the principal issues for our country’s political leaders have become the questions of our nation’s spiritual revival, of the halting of senseless confrontation and of the creation of a social basis for mutual understanding and forgiveness. The solution of these problems will help achieve maximum progress towards national reconciliation. Let me describe briefly to the Assembly our view of the problem. Addressing the General Assembly at its forty- eighth session, I stated that political dialogue was the only possible way of untying the internal Tajik knot and achieving national reconciliation and that it was one of our highest priorities. A careful study of the state of society, and of public opinion in particular, gave us the idea of entering into dialogue with those who have never concealed their desire to seize power by force. In doing so we used all possible means, including regional and international mechanisms. Only the good will demonstrated by the leaders of Tajikistan made it possible to start and to develop the negotiating process. The importance of the initiatives put forward by the Secretary-General, the decisions of the Security Council and the assistance of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe in accelerating the national reconciliation process should be particularly emphasized. We deeply appreciate the unwavering attention of the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali to all the problems of Tajikistan, and we take this opportunity to express to him our sincere gratitude. We appreciate no less deeply the activities of the Secretary-General’s Special Envoy to Tajikistan, Mr. Ramiro Piriz-Ballon, of the United Nations Observers in Tajikistan and of the CSCE mission. All of them have made a valuable contribution to the elaboration of the negotiating mechanisms. I would like to note with satisfaction the hopeful results of the political consultations between us and the Tajik opposition, with the mediation of Mr. Ramiro Piriz-Ballon, which took place in Tehran in the second half of September 1994. The parties signed the Agreement on a cease-fire and stopping hostile actions, and we consider this to be an important step towards the achievement of national reconciliation, peace and stability in Tajikistan. The Security Council and the international community noted with satisfaction the signing of that document. From this rostrum I would like to express the hope that the question of dispatching United Nations military observers to Tajikistan will be resolved without delay. I express our gratitude to the Governments and the peoples of the Russian Federation, the United States of America, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and other concerned parties and countries for their assistance in the promotion of the inter-Tajik dialogue. However, I must state with regret that there have been recurrent outbreaks of violence, initiated by the unmotivated escalation of the armed opposition and manifested in acts of terror, taking of hostages and other subversive actions. We consider these actions a deviation from political methods of resolving contentious questions and reconciling existing contradictions. We also see them as showing disregard of the international community’s appeal to the Tajik parties to show restraint and countenance no action that might impede the process of negotiations. 2 Despite those actions, the political leaders of Tajikistan took a series of practical steps to strengthen confidence-building measures. At its twentieth session the Parliament of Tajikistan decided to postpone the referendum and the elections. The aim of this initiative of the members of Parliament was to involve the widest possible spectrum of political forces in the constitutional process, to give everyone wishing to return home an opportunity to do so and to let all our compatriots who had the bad fortune to be outside the country take part in the elections. We are using this extra time to make proper preparations for addressing organizational questions concerning the invitation of observers from the United Nations, the CSCE, other international organizations and interested countries to the elections. We reaffirm our principled position to solve existing contentious questions by means of dialogue. We are convinced that the opposition’s reliance on force and the commensurate reaction to it may cause unpredictable consequences leading to the undermining of the stabilization process and of the positive decisions reached during negotiations. At the same time I consider it necessary to draw the Assembly’s attention to another very important aspect of this problem. It seems that the irreconcilable wing of the opposition is cultivating plans of expanding the geographical scope of the inter-Tajik conflict by instituting the use of mercenaries in the armed confrontation. This creates conditions for the internationalization of the conflict, which may in turn threaten to spread the confrontation throughout Central Asia. It is easy to imagine what serious consequences this may have. Speaking from this rostrum, I must draw the Assembly’s attention to our anxiety over the current situation in the neighbouring Islamic State of Afghanistan. The world cannot remain indifferent to the situation in that country, where internecine war came to dominate social relations. The Afghan conflict has brought forth a dangerous phenomenon: the emergence of anarchic geographical units that can become a base for international terrorism and unpunished trafficking in weapons and drugs. The situation on the Tajik-Afghan border keeps a vast region in tension. Central Asia’s fragile backbone of political balance may not withstand the high pressure, and the destructive processes taking place in Afghanistan right now may lead to a regional cataclysm. We urge that the Afghan problem be given the world Community’s most serious consideration. Furthermore, we are convinced that the alleviation of tension in Afghanistan will significantly and positively influence the solution of the inter-Tajik conflict. We have no doubt that the people of Afghanistan will ultimately achieve reconciliation and restore peace to their country. We sincerely wish the people of Afghanistan success in achieving these goals as soon as possible. In current circumstances, with many hotbeds of tension caused by the cold war still existing, the peace-keeping efforts of the world community have a particularly important role. It is evident that there are certain rules limiting the use of United Nations peace-keeping forces, which reduces the effectiveness of measures taken by the Organization in this regard. I would once again like to draw the attention of the Security Council and the Assembly squarely to the question of giving to the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) joint peace-keeping forces in Tajikistan the status of a United Nations operation. The CIS countries are helping Tajikistan with the protection of its southern borders, which are at the same time the borders of the Commonwealth. In this regard we recognize the special and leading role of Russia, which has been and remains the guarantor of stability and security for all Central Asian States. We do not believe the presence of the CIS peace-keeping forces in our country contradicts the decisions of the Security Council or the initiatives of the Secretary-General aimed at achieving peace in Tajikistan. Moreover, from our point of view, these forces are the decisive factor in deterrence and in overcoming a state of crisis on the Tajik-Afghan border. Taking a wider view of this problem, one might even see the outlines of a new concept of security for the whole of Central Asia. We still hope the Security Council will find it opportune to reconsider our initiative to call a special meeting of the Council to consider the situation in and around Tajikistan, as well as the question of giving the CIS joint peace-keeping forces the status of a United Nations peace-keeping force. The tragedies of the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Rwanda, Somalia and the hot spots in the CIS all give evidence of the fact that the danger of nuclear catastrophe has been replaced by civil conflicts caused by international, religious or ethnic differences and that their recurrence is becoming the primary problem for the world community. I should like to say a few words on the question of the proposed reform of the Organization. On the whole 3 we support the idea of expanding the Security Council. Such a step, on the one hand, would reflect the global changes taking place in today’s world and, on the other hand, would give an opportunity to achieve a more balanced representation in the Council. The emerging consensus on the need to enlarge the number of seats in the Security Council will probably improve the efficiency of this central body of the United Nations. In other words, the Council will enhance its potential, acquire more dynamism, increase the variety of decisions it takes and generate a wider spectrum of ideas. The world is diverse and is thus unique. Its diversity, however, does not preclude the process of integration. A praiseworthy example is Europe. A better future for mankind is apparently based on these kinds of processes. Tajikistan as a member of the world community sees the future of its development in the integration processes on various levels, in cooperation with neighbouring and distant countries, regions and international organizations. The activities of the CSCE have proved to us the efficiency of such cooperation. Its informal approach to the accelerated integration of Tajikistan into the international community and the realization of the mandate of the CSCE Mission to Tajikistan will undoubtedly be among the major factors in the achievement of national reconciliation in our country. To a considerable extent we rely upon CSCE assistance to enhance democratic institutions and create a society founded on the rule of law and on the basis of high standards that will provide universal human rights and freedoms for every citizen. While carrying out active preparation for the upcoming Budapest summit meeting, we hope to put forward at that important forum our view of the problems and to define the areas of cooperation. Undoubtedly for us the question of participation in the Commonwealth of Independent States is vital. Our present position is that independence and sovereignty is not a sword but is rather the shield of a nation that must be strong but not heavy. Independence should not burden human lives but on the contrary should make everybody’s life easier and give all people on Earth the opportunity to be equal. Principles of independence and sovereignty in the current period of history must be flexible and diverse, for the main goal is to ensure that people who used to have deeply rooted historical ties now have an opportunity for a wider realization of their economic and spiritual potential in the interests of future generations. It is precisely in this light that we consider the development of the Commonwealth of Independent States that is trying to find a mutually acceptable form of integration without harming national interests. Despite well-known difficulties the Commonwealth of Independent States pragmatically searches for ways to rationalize all mechanisms of interaction among its members. I am convinced that the leadership and the people of States members of the Commonwealth of Independent States have by now recognized the truth that it is unrealistic to expect that, alone, a country can expect to solve the task of renewing society and of carrying out reforms. We are facing the historical reality of building our future by cooperative and coordinated efforts. In the post-Soviet period, Russia - a permanent member of the Security Council - has assumed a heavy burden and responsibility for peace-keeping on a greater part of the territory of the former Soviet Union. We note with deep satisfaction that these supreme efforts of Russia have started to bring results. The multinational nation of Tajikistan highly appreciates and welcomes the peace-keeping activities of Russia. I should like to note in this context that the ideas of concluding a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty, of adopting the decision on the Non-Proliferation Treaty’s open-ended and unconditional extension, of developing regional programmes to strengthen peace and security, and other proposals put forward by Mr. Boris Yeltsin, President of the Russian Federation, in his address to the forty-ninth session of the United Nations General Assembly and aimed at strengthening international security, all deserve the broadest support. Tajikistan notes with gratitude the initiatives by Uzbekistan to bring about a peaceful solution to the intra- Tajik conflict and to ensure security and stability in the region of Central Asia. We highly appreciate our good-neighbourly relations with the States of Central Asia. We hope that the sphere of their integration efforts will expand in the interests of all countries of the region of Central Asia. They deserve careful study and support. Nowadays it is universally recognized that alongside political questions, problems of social and economic development have assumed the same importance and urgency. The correctness of this statement is confirmed 4 by the conclusions reached at the end of the high-level Economic and Social Council segment, that we support and approve. It is our firm conviction that the main aim of restructuring the United Nations should be to preserve and increase its potential to solve the whole range of development issues. For the Republic of Tajikistan which has found itself in the hard grip of a transitional period aggravated by the consequences of tragic events in recent years, the problem of economic survival has become a critical test. According to the 'development indicators' data published by the World Bank, Tajikistan has been included in the group of countries with the lowest level of per capita income. Today Tajikistan badly needs the help of the international community, not only to restore its economy but also to create the conditions for long-term development. Our country, which is a land-locked State, is counting on special attention from the international community in matters of economic and social development, and hopes that its appeal to include Tajikistan in the group of least developed countries will be properly understood and supported by the United Nations community. I assure Members that the highest objective for the leaders of the Republic of Tajikistan is the achievement of values common to all humanity, calmness and peace in our Republic, the creation of a unified, peaceful, developed State of Tajikistan. And I hope that all countries of the world will help us to achieve this noble objective. Eighty years ago the fire of the First World War broke out, and very soon - in a few months - humanity will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War. These dates will forever be inscribed in the history of the twentieth century, in the history of the world. Still, the dates themselves are not as important as the lessons which these events have taught us. The bitter experience of the Second World War persuaded the leading Powers of the necessity to create an international organization the aim of which would be the maintenance and enhancement of peace all over the world. The main achievement of the United Nations during the almost 50 years of its existence has been saving humankind from the fire of a new world war, and its development has taken place on the basis of enhancing mutual understanding and cooperation, taking into account the interests of all parties, and the equality of large and small nations in the name of preserving our planet for future generations. Now, at the end of the twentieth century, it gives us great hope that the world community will not only prevent the outbreak of a third world war but will do its best to make sure that the twenty-first century will become a period of creativity and calm on the whole planet. I should like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. We are pleased that the representative of Côte d’Ivoire - a nation for which Israel has high regard - has been elected to this distinguished post. I should like to express to the Secretary General our deepest appreciation 13 for his contribution to world peace in general, and to peace in the Middle East in particular. A year ago, I offered a concept for a new Middle East. Many applauded; more remained sceptical. What at that time seemed lofty is today a reality. I feel I can submit today an invitation to a further journey in the new Middle East. Last year was a year of remarkable events. The Palestinian people, as a result of our agreement, gained authority in Gaza and Jericho; Jordan and Israel agreed, in the Washington Declaration, to end the state of war and move towards an agreement of full peace; voices of promise are exchanged between Damascus and Jerusalem; multilateral meetings produced a network of regional cooperation; Morocco and Israel established formal relations; and an agenda for a new Middle East will emerge from an unprecedented economic conference in Casablanca next month. The desire for peace is rooted in the millenniums of Jewish existence. Generations prayed for it, and now a young generation in Israel is today engaged in making it. The search for peace is shared by young people all over the Middle East, Arabs and Israelis alike. We have to fulfil their hope. I am addressing this Assembly for the first time, not as a party to a controversy, but as a representative of a country that has shown a capacity to solve conflicts that seemed insoluble. The United Nations should play an increasing role facing the changing times. It can define new destinies. It can adopt new means. As the United Nations celebrates its fiftieth anniversary, it may adopt models for new endeavours by mobilizing builders to construct peace, not just by deploying troops to keep it. Economic structures will offer more than military deployment. Gaza, as an example, has a new authority. It needs a new economy. The United Nations can provide an answer. The 7,000 years of Gaza are mainly a history of suffering. Its population density today is among the highest in the world. There is a role for the United Nations in Gaza, and it has played one. It began by stationing troops - which were recalled, unfortunately, on the eve of the Six-Day War. Then UNRWA came and supplied food, health and education to the refugees. Then UNDP contributed greatly to the construction of an infrastructure in the Gaza Strip. The United Nations can help Gaza today become free from want. It can introduce there the necessary economic and proper social institutions. An enlarged allocation for Gaza, with the existing United Nations administration, will produce immediate results and may make Gaza a new model of United Nations endeavours. The world is moving from military might to social priorities. It is time to turn from political confrontation to economic cooperation. In the Middle East, economic growth can compensate for political compromises. We no longer live in a closed world. The intensive flow of information has opened the eyes of many people. No longer can tyranny blind their perceptions. Iron curtains can no longer bar the spread of the true story. Knowledge has finally overcome propaganda. This current is profound and lasting. The sources of strength and wealth are today universal rather than national, intellectual rather than material. The size of the territory, the number of its people, the wealth of its raw materials, no longer decide the fate of a nation. It is the scope of education, the level of science, applied technology and up-to-date information that make all the difference. Intellectual sources are no longer partitioned by traditional divides. Science has no territorial limits. Technology has no national flags. Information can travel without visas. Armies cannot conquer wisdom. Borders cannot protect knowledge. The talent of creation is replacing the strategies of destruction. Computers, not rifles, mark the difference. The hunting season in history is disappearing. This does not mean an end to agonies. Starvation, disease, terrorism, desertification, nuclear weapons, ecological damage and dangerous drugs overflow the boundaries of land and the boundaries of reason. Violence employs new tactics: it has not disappeared. Confrontations in the future may not necessarily be wars of conquest, but bloodshed of protest. 14 The strong know that they will not be strengthened by dominating the poor, or by owning their deserts. The poor cannot, and will not, comply with their conditions, tolerated by the indifference of the well-off. Existing institutions were initiated in a different time. They are based today on memories rather than on needs. Ministries of foreign affairs and defence were structured to confront enemies. Now we face dangers more than enemies, but without our being organized to handle them. We are not answering the need. Diplomacy and strategy should be mobilized to face the undefined dangers. Disease will not be overcome by traditional diplomatic démarches. Starvation cannot be eliminated by guns. Deserts will not bloom beneath air raids. Remedies will not arrive of their own accord: they should be invented and introduced. Israel is on the side of this tendency. We are committed to ending the conflicts. We are determined to uproot their causes. We do not intend to stop this momentum or allow its interruption. For the last five decades the mere existence of Israel has served as a temptation to try and destroy it. For half a century we had to give security top priority. To this very day, we shed tears on the tombs of our children, who paid with their young lives to overcome the menace. When wars became futile, suspicion succeeded fighting. The allegation was that Israel was trying to expand territorially and was unwilling to compromise geographically. Reality ended this allegation as well. Egypt, first to negotiate peace, found an Israel willing to exchange land for peace. The Palestinians, next in line, gained jurisdiction over territories they had never controlled before. With Jordan, we agreed to delineate a permanent border without one side encroaching on the land of the other. Syria was told at the outset of negotiations that the nature of peace would affect the depth of the withdrawal. Lebanon was told that Israel had no demands on its territory and no intention of compromising its integrity. Negotiations have not been easy. With the Palestinians, we negotiated on uncharted ground. Never had the Palestinian people experienced self-rule. Today they possess a territorial address and an administrative authority. For the first time in their history, their children’s education is solely in Palestinian hands. In the coming days Israel will hand over additional responsibilities to the Palestinian Authority. The Declaration of Principles will be fully implemented in the spirit and letter. We shall support a Palestinian readiness to hold democratic elections. Israel, as well as the Palestinians, may discover that Palestinian democracy and Israeli security are complementary. We have demonstrated that we are true in our moral choice not to govern the destiny of another people. We shall continue to negotiate with Syria. We are negotiating out of conviction, not weakness, and we hope to conclude the negotiations with a settlement that will respect the interests of both sides, without harming Syrian dignity or compromising Israeli security. Syria insists on a narrow path for the negotiations, postponing meetings between the leaders and thus slowing the pace of negotiations. Israel is ready for accelerated negotiations. We address the Syrians by saying: 'Let us talk face to face. Let us negotiate, as proclaimed in Damascus, with courage to attain a peace of honour. By ending suspicion, introducing creativity and allowing flexibility, we can transform a promising climate into a solid terrain.' Syria declared its strategy for peace. We appreciate it. Military threats and territorial positions should be transformed by security arrangements, diplomatic rapport, full peace and economic endeavours. That will erode the motivation for conflict. Without peaceful relations, balances of power are meaningless. The range of understanding can serve as the only answer to the range of ballistic missiles. President Clinton and Secretary of State Christopher are relentlessly pushing for peace. European, Russian and many other leaders are genuinely supportive. Important Middle Eastern leaders are actively engaged in the same direction. Still, much depends on direct negotiations. Yesterday’s enemies, tomorrow’s partners, should become today’s interlocutors. A peace treaty between Israel and Syria may produce a historic result greater than just an agreement between two countries. It may well become the crowning of a comprehensive peace. It may become an opportunity for the leaders of the region - Kings, Presidents, Prime Ministers, supported by the most prominent leaders of our time - to gather and announce the end of the conflict and to proclaim full peace throughout the region. Peace can hardly emerge from stinginess. By definition, it calls for generosity. Peace is more than a mere ceremony. It requires ongoing maintenance; it awaits a passionate cultivation of new relations. We hope that our neighbours, from Saudi Arabia to Lebanon, from Djibouti to Algeria, will become constructive partners in 15 it. Dark clouds are still hanging over the horizon - the shadows of missed opportunities. We have to build a coalition to prevent subversive turbulence from undermining legitimate Governments and harassing the stability needed for the inflow of investment. All countries of the Middle East face a choice: to remain politically divided and economically stagnant or to become economically advanced and politically just. A high standard of living for the people - all people - is the best promise for stability in our midst. Israel is willing to participate in achieving it. There are sceptics, we know, who do not believe that the Middle East is ripe for a common market similar to the European one. They forget that Europe did not do it in one leap. It started with a Community of coal and steel. We can start with a community of water and tourism. Nor do they believe that the Middle East is ready for a free trade zone like the one in North America. Yet the North American Free Trade Agreement emerged in a short while as a success by linking geographic proximity with economic growth. Those sceptics claim that generations are needed to cement a new market in the Middle East. Well, they can see what in 10 short years happened to Asian countries, which attained unpredicted prosperity. They achieved it by adopting a market economy. The profile of a market economy is clear. It is made of comprehensive education, open borders, free movement, science-based industries and competitive trade. A market economy is a fabric woven from political silk and durable threads of welfare. The time is ripe for its rendezvous with the Middle East. At the end of October, under the presidency of King Hassan II, we shall take the first step to implement a regional design. We shall try to establish instruments for development: a regional bank, channels for private investment and a framework for regional planning. The wealth of the Middle East should be convinced to remain at home. Over the last decade it has invested the better part of its fortunes abroad. Homebound wealth will attract foreign investment as well. We should cut the enormous expense - $70 billion annually - of the arms race. The savings can be directed to development. The arms race can be reduced only by regional consent. No single country will do it alone. To transform the region and make it a stable and attractive place we need the emergence of the region as a whole, committed to a new future. Nature, and not only politics, calls for it. The waters, the winds, the environment call for regional responsibility and cooperation, for desalinization plants, energy stations, highways, railways, runways, piers, telecommunication networks, high-tech industries, tourism infrastructure, banking systems, computer terminals and ecological considerations - a landscape that will meet the future will create a state of prosperity, and it is a regional challenge. The Middle East was the cradle of civilization and has a capacity to contribute. It experienced golden ages, economically and culturally. It should be our collective ambition to make it happen again and to make it happen soon. Today, shortages can be bridged rapidly. Computers can carry children not only from grade to grade but from age to age. The software of knowledge will better replace the hardware of weapons. I have served my country since its birth. I have learned that complex problems call for unconventional solutions. I feel that over the past year we have won a licence to build a new Middle East, to make it part of the globe in its new age, free of wars, free of enemies, free of terrorism; a Middle East which will be nuclear-free, missile-free, hunger-free, discrimination-free, tyranny-free; a constituency of peace, a domain of freedom, a land of prosperity. There is a morning awaiting us after a long night, calling us to direct our energies and our aims and our prayers towards that great opportunity. Costa Rica hails and congratulates you most warmly, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. We also wish to thank the Secretary- General, whose untiring efforts have made this an Organization which is daily playing a more dynamic and effective role in the advancement of peace, security and development. We are Members of an Organization whose name bespeaks hope and dreams - the United Nations; not aligned or groups of nations but one single family of peoples, united in the struggle for peace, human rights and development. In those dark days of 1945, filled with suffering, hatred and ruin, those who forged the United Nations created an Organization with medium- and long-term objectives. Rather than setting up a transitory league of victors, their vision was to look to the future in unity. They thought not only of themselves; they thought as well of their children and their grandchildren. They also thought of the children of their former adversaries, and thought as well of those who had stayed on the margins of the tragedy. My country is proud to have been a founding member of this fraternity. It is also proud to say that the ideals of the United Nations live on in the spirit and in the daily lives of our people. And although my country is not wealthy, not powerful, not big, we feel we have honourably served the cause of this Organization both within and beyond our borders. Despite the limitations inherent in our small and poor country, the Costa Rican people have proved they are capable of dreaming bold dreams and of making those dreams come true. Forty-six years ago, when the United Nations was about to take its first steps and the world was just beginning to emerge from the horrors of the Second World War, a group of men and women of vision in our country began to pursue the dream of a world without wars and armies, and decided that the dream should begin to be made a reality right at home. We thus abolished our army and began a long period of economic growth, accompanied by social well-being and political stability. We became a model of human development in a developing country and a force for the abolition of war and violence in our region. It is through our commitment to making this dream a reality within our own borders that our country has made its most important contribution to the cause of the United Nations. Today, as humanity stands at a decisive crossroads, the need to build new utopias has become of the utmost urgency. As human beings, we are at our creative best only when we are in pursuit of a dream, when our eyes shine with the gleam of that dream. Given the magnitude of the dangers we face, the international community, now perhaps more than ever before, needs to muster all its energies in pursuit of renewal. As a people living at the centre of the Americas, we are deeply concerned by the threats hanging over mankind. We are especially concerned about growing tensions between the proponents of social progress and those of the natural environment that supports it. At times, the countries of the world seem to be playing out a macabre global compact for self-destruction. While the production and consumption patterns of the industrialized world are wreaking havoc on nature, poverty in the third world is also causing serious environmental damage. The end result is a rapid deterioration of the natural resource base upon which all of life and society depends, to the point where the very survival of humanity is in jeopardy. With every passing day, awareness is growing of the fact that this absurd path the world has chosen to follow is not sustainable. Given such a formidable threat, the United Nations once again shines like a beacon of hope for the world. As a forum pooling the energies of the international community, it has already acted resolutely in dealing with the environment. From a variety of vantage points, many of its agencies have launched efforts to preserve and conserve the world’s resources and to establish norms of social organization that are compatible with the life cycles of the planet. At the Rio de Janeiro Summit, that decades- long effort of the United Nations in this area was clearly expressed, and the adoption of Agenda 21, along with the conventions on biodiversity and climatic change, which my country has signed, is to a large extent the fruit of the work of the United Nations. As the community of nations tackles new common challenges, Costa Rica once again affirms its commitment to play a useful role. Aware as we are of our limitations as a small and poor country, we can but offer the best we have. We pledge our land and our collective determination as a contribution to building utopias and keeping hope alive. We wish to assume our role in these global causes with two reasons in mind: we are committed to the world-wide struggle to ensure the existence and well- being of mankind, and we feel it is urgent for us to provide our people with the kind of development that will make of nature an ally and not an enemy. Today, we acknowledge that the social and economic progress made in Costa Rica in recent decades was achieved at the expense of a serious deterioration in our environment. Our polluted rivers, our eroded soil and our rapidly disappearing forests are the unfortunate proof. For the future, only sustainable development can offer us continued abundance and growing well-being, generation after generation. All too often throughout history, human beings have opted for the easy way out - only economic growth, superficial and fleeting change and an irrational exploitation of the environment. Aware as we are of the deplorable results of such an approach, we Costa Ricans wish to rid ourselves of such self-deception. We envisage sustainable development as one that is mindful of the macro-equilibrium that in turn makes long-term development possible - I refer to political stability, social equity, economic balance and harmony with nature. The enjoyment of peace, democracy and stability in Costa Rica is in large measure because of the sustained investment we have made for decades in education, health and other services to ensure the well-being of our people. By abolishing our army, we have been able to convert military expenditure into expenditure on social programmes and to avoid the threat of stunted development such as often occurs under military dictatorships. Building on these traditions, we are now attaining new and ambitious goals. To achieve sustainability, major changes are in store for us in our way of life, and to make these changes we will have to set free the energies and the determination of our citizens. That is why we are shifting away from representative democracy and moving towards more complex forms of participatory democracy. 2 Since we have chosen to pursue sustainable development we are committed to finding medium- and long-term solutions to the cyclical economic imbalances from which we have suffered over the years. Desirous as we are of changing the ways in which we interact with the natural world, we in Costa Rica have undertaken an ambitious programme based on social consensus, the work of the scientific and technological community and the historical ability of new State institutions to promote development. Decades ago, when the topic of environmental conservation was not yet a key item on the agendas of Governments or international organizations, my country was already working to set up a system of nature conservation areas which today cover one fourth of our national territory and provide protection for virtually all our animal and plant species. Today we are taking yet a further step and endeavouring to arrive at an integrated scheme to combine nature conservation with the productive use of tropical biodiversity. Our goal to live in harmony with nature has helped us to realize that our land was for the most part meant to be forested. The objectives of our programme include improving the net absorption of carbon dioxide through forestation programmes carried out in conjunction with developed countries, the exportation of plant trees and the development of technologies for tropical reforestation. These and other projects are part of a national plan designed to implement all the elements of Agenda 21, adopted at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. In the pursuit of these and other, similar goals we intend to make Costa Rica into a model of sustainable development. Indeed, we hope to become the first developing country to make the leap to sustainable development. Like other dreams we have cherished and realized in the past, through our own efforts and with the help of the international community, this dream is bold and ambitious. Costa Rica cherishes this aspiration for all of Central America as well. We are committed to our region’s efforts to achieve sustainable development, efforts that are today being carried out under a common programme that was agreed to at our recent meetings of Presidents. During the tragic years of the Central American crisis Costa Rica did not suffer the ravages of war or dictatorship, nor did it see any of its freedoms taken away. Nevertheless, our national development was hampered by the backwardness, injustice and violence that held sway throughout the region. Today, we Costa Ricans reaffirm our conviction that our destiny as a nation is indissolubly linked to that of the other nations of the Isthmus. Costa Rica vividly remembers and continues to be grateful to the United Nations for its valuable support in bringing peace to our region. We recall the exceptional efforts the Organization made. Its action of solidarity, mobilizing substantial resources and devising specific programmes, was at that time of great benefit to Central America. Today, the situation is very different. In our region we have put an end to the fratricidal conflicts that bled us for decades and we have ushered in an era of reconciliation, peace and democracy. Today, Central America offers much more fertile ground for ever-higher levels of human development. Today, our peoples are more capable of building a better future for themselves and therefore of establishing mutually beneficial and cooperative relations with international organizations and friendly countries. Today’s watchword is 'interdependence'. The industrialized countries will be able to maintain their standards of living and levels of production only if they can foster development in the rest of the world. This is why we invite them to forge closer ties of cooperation with us so that Central America’s goals can be shared and more easily attained by our countries. Notwithstanding innumerable difficulties and despite 40 years of cold war and a multitude of conflicts, the United Nations has a record of accomplishment unprecedented in history. We derive great satisfaction from the imminent fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. Never before in the history of mankind has any joint effort for peace managed to endure so long, and never before has any international effort taken on such universal proportions. We nevertheless hope that this universality will become total as soon as possible, without any exceptions whatever. Today, Costa Rica would like to reaffirm its strong support for the legitimate aspirations of the Republic of China in Taiwan to take part in the efforts of the United Nations. We believe that the people of that nation must be represented in this family of nations. It is a reality, and it is also an issue that the Organization cannot continue to sidestep. 3 The impending anniversary is also a good time for us to set a new course for the United Nations so that we can successfully meet new challenges. We consider the ideas on this subject contained in the Secretary-General’s 'Agenda for Peace' to be of the utmost importance, and we hope that we will be able to contribute to making them a reality. 'An Agenda for Peace' is a particularly important guide for the international community. Its natural complement, the agenda for development, optimistically reflects mankind’s new concerns and offers us great opportunities to work dynamically in building the new millennium. Indeed, there is a great deal of work before us. Although there is no longer a cold war, although many States have rejected totalitarianism, it is still true that we are faced with the horror of the unfolding tragedy of Rwanda, the aggression being pursued against Bosnia and the resurgence of ethnic and religious fanaticism. We are frustrated to see that the best efforts of the organized international community have not been sufficient to find a way out of the Cuban crisis, in our America. We feel indignation in the face of the violence and exploitation to which women and children continue to be subjected and alarm at the steady increase in drug trafficking and its occasional ally, terrorism. We are sad to see that hunger and poverty continue to be a daily reality for millions in Africa, Asia and our own Latin America. These painful realities must not, however, weaken our resolve. Recently we have seen hopeful and bright signals to the effect that things can and should be different. We have witnessed the Republic of South Africa peacefully putting an end to a shameful regime and becoming the mother of all its children, regardless of the color of their skin. We have seen Israelis, Palestinians and Jordanians together plough furrows of peace through the Holy Land. The first steps have been taken towards reconciliation in Northern Ireland. There are signs of lessening tensions on the Korean peninsula, and we trust that, through negotiations, there will be effective control of North Korea’s nuclear programme. Just a few days ago we saw how the efforts of the international community had finally provided the people of Haiti with a chance of real peace and democracy. Costa Rica would like to make a proposal that it considers basic for human development in Haiti. To this end we ask the United Nations to work with others on a democratization programme, with the gradual and irreversible abolition of the army in that country. The time is ripe for such an initiative; by carrying it out we would protect this long- suffering nation from many future injustices. Having for many years been committed to the struggle against poverty and underdevelopment, Costa Rica has strong hopes of the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Denmark next March. My country shares and supports its objectives and will enthusiastically participate in activities at the Summit and afterwards. We optimistically hail, as part of the restructuring of international relations, the establishment of the World Trade Organization. We are confident that its creation will lead to greater legal consistency in international trade relations, a new era of global economic cooperation and a greater dynamism in trade, as well as higher volumes. For countries such as the banana-producing countries of Latin America, today facing serious problems because of reduced access to markets in the European Union, this new forum will be of particular importance. We are glad that its priority topics include the links between trade policies, environmental policies and sustainable development. Costa Rica was present in San Francisco to declare its faith in the future of the world. We have been here for half a century, bearing witness to our trust in the United Nations. Today Costa Rica is present again to call on all Member States to continue to look forward, firmly committed to working with still greater dedication for the attainment of the common goal of securing the well-being of our peoples. We must have faith in the future, but we must work to build it. Let us forge a new spirit in our minds and fill our hearts, and this Organization, with a new kind of feeling. Let us adopt as our own the attitude embodied in the lessons of an old proverb: 'Fear less and hope more; complain less and breathe more; speak less and say more; hate less and love more; and all good things shall be yours.' Allow me to express my deep pleasure at Mr. Amara Essy’s election to preside over the General Assembly this year. This is a well-deserved tribute to your country, Côte d’Ivoire, which is held in high esteem by the international community. My distinguished German colleague, Mr. Klaus Kinkel, speaking on behalf of the European Union, indicated the role it intends to play in international relations and described its positions on the major political questions. These positions are fully shared by my country. Consequently I will limit my remarks to certain points pertaining to the functioning of our Organization. Over the past few years, we have lived through the end of the cold war and far-reaching upheavals in the international arena. These changes have had important and lasting effects on many people, on the populations of many States that lived under authoritarian forms of government and have now conquered the freedom to exercise their fundamental rights; on peoples freed of the constraints imposed upon them by the competition between the two super-Powers, which enabled dictatorial and repressive regimes to act with full impunity; and, finally, on the international community as a whole, which is no longer forced to live with the fear of nuclear conflagration throughout the planet. Democracy has made a historic breakthrough. It will be restored in Haiti. In the Middle East the peace process is making progress. In South Africa apartheid has been definitively abolished, and this shining victory is shared by our Organizat ion, which fought apartheid uncompromisingly. Let us give careful thought to the formidable lesson of political courage, tolerance and reconciliation given us by Presidents Mandela and de Klerk. These advances are offset, however, by the emergence throughout the world of areas of tension which, no longer masked by a bipolar structure, are now growing in intensity. For three years now war has been raging in the former Yugoslavia, with an increasing toll of death, suffering and destruction. In Rwanda, we witnessed the unleashing of barbarism, which in a few months killed hundreds of thousands of civilians and provoked a refugee problem of exceptional dimensions. Similarly, elsewhere - in Africa, the Caucasus, Central Asia - other regions are faced with new types of conflict, resulting from the break-up of States and the resurgence of nationalist, ethnic and religious passions. Never before has the United Nations found itself so much at the centre of world politics. The United Nations today finds itself forced to face entirely new challenges, to deal with an ever-growing number of demands and missions that are increasingly complex. I hail the dedication of our Secretary-General, who has persistently devoted his energies to the difficult mission of adapting the Organization to a new international environment, and of strengthening it to enable it to fulfil its new tasks. I wish to pay tribute to the United Nations peace-keeping forces which have intervened in recent times in an impressive number of conflicts. They have contributed, at times in a decisive manner, to protecting civilian populations, to preventing the spread of conflict and to facilitating the process of transition to democracy. A significant number of them have given their lives in what are often highly dangerous operations. The growth of peace-keeping operations has been exponential. In the past five years, the Organization has launched more peace-keeping operations than during the previous 40. Moreover, the Organization is now embarked upon activities which far surpass the traditional peace-keeping concepts to which we had grown accustomed. Indeed, most of the recent conflicts have emerged not between States but within States; the Charter hardly contemplates such situations. We shall therefore have to give thought to the conditions under which the United Nations should act in such cases, and ask ourselves whether it has the necessary resources and instruments to fulfil its new missions. 'An Agenda for Peace' provides a framework for the future evolution of our Organization in this field of peace-keeping. A number of the ideas put forward by the Secretary-General have been constructively put to use by the Security Council and by the General Assembly. But recent experience has shown us, at times pointedly, that 24 there are often serious shortcomings to the way in which the United Nations conducts these military operations. Major operations can no longer be decided upon spontaneously; in the area of peace-keeping, the United Nations needs to strengthen its organizational, management and planning capacities. It must be able to rely on a permanent high command structure capable of simultaneously conducting several multi-dimensional large- scale operations and which has adequate means for information processing and coordination. Effective crisis management implies the capacity to react quickly, which is why it would be desirable to enhance the United Nations capacity to rapidly carry the necessary personnel and equipment to the theatre of operations. In the recent past there have been too many instances in which the Secretary-General has been forced to delay operations approved by the Security Council owing to a lack of personnel or equipment. This implies that we, the Member States, should contribute the necessary peace- keeping troops for future missions and that we should be in a position to put them rapidly at the disposal of the United Nations. These contributions should not be limited to military personnel, but should also include civilians, from police to election observers. Indeed, peace-keeping requires many skills, including that of being able to intervene between opposing parties, of being sensitive to cultural particularities, and of being able to act as a mediator. The personnel who are called upon to intervene in these complex, difficult and dangerous situations should therefore be properly prepared and trained. Uniform training and joint exercises constitute the key to the effective integration of different national contingents in a multinational operation. Finally, there is a need for a substantial strengthening of the safety provisions for the Blue Helmets. Driven to the limits of its financial and organizational capacities, the United Nations will increasingly need to count on regional organizations and structures in order to carry out these peace-keeping operations. Cooperation between the United Nations and such organizations is provided for by the Charter, and it has been developed, for example, in the former Yugoslavia, in Somalia and in the Caucasus. It should be further strengthened. Only the United Nations has the international legitimacy to decide to use force or to impose peace enforcement measures. But in the sphere of peace-keeping and preventive diplomacy, the activities of regional organizations would have the advantage of relieving the United Nations of part of its work. Often having a better understanding of the conflicts in their areas, such organizations could act with greater effectiveness. With respect to the European continent, the United Nations should intensify its cooperation with the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), the Council of Europe and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), taking into account the competence of each of those organizations. Does international law authorize the United Nations to intervene within a country? Does not the Charter assert the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of a State? I welcome the fact that for some time now the international community has been treating that principle in a more flexible way. That principle should no longer serve as a shield for flagrant and massive violations of human rights. That is what occurred in 1991 in Iraq, when the international community came to the aid of the Kurds, harshly repressed by Saddam Hussein, or, again in 1992 in Somalia, when the task was to protect the supply of humanitarian aid to a population threatened by famine. On each occasion, the international community courageously assumed its duty to assist, though it is true that in Somalia a political solution remains to be found. Did the international community show similar determination when, last spring, a virtual genocide was perpetrated in Rwanda, especially when the Tutsi community became the target of a deliberate act of extermination undertaken by officials of the Hutu community? The United Nations, after hesitating for a moment, decided to reconstitute the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR) in order to provide protection to the population that was threatened. But the Secretary-General’s appeal was not heeded. The action finally taken by France and the Africans - and for this I pay a tribute to them - succeeded at least in putting the brakes on this infernal machine. I hope in any case that an international tribunal will be created without delay to bring to trial those responsible for this crime against humanity. In this era of interdependence, efforts with a view to collective maintenance of peace and security cannot be reduced to peace-keeping operations alone, but must necessarily take into account economic and social factors. 25 Famine, underdevelopment, the flow of refugees, over- population, environmental deterioration, drug abuse and, finally, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are all serious threats to our global balance and, hence, to world peace. In the economic sphere, too, our security depends on that of others. In all sectors that give rise to concern, whether we are dealing with military, trade, environmental or health problems, no nation can isolate itself from others. We are all affected by what happens beyond our borders, just as our own actions within our borders inevitably have repercussions on the community of nations as a whole. Our security is increasingly indivisible. We cannot disregard the links that exist between development, economic growth, protection of the environment and population movements. If the situation deteriorates in any one area, the whole can be destabilized. Having a global mandate in political, economic and cultural matters, the United Nations is the ideal forum in which to carry on the quest for lasting development that is compatible with preservation of an environmental balance and with the needs of social development. We express our satisfaction at the recent issuance by the Secretary-General of his 'Agenda for Development', which is a supplement to his 'Agenda for Peace'. We hope that at this session of the Assembly we will succeed in identifying the priority sectors in which we should undertake in-depth reforms. The promotion of progress and of economic, social and environmental development needs greater attention if we wish to overcome the long-term threats to international security. We must give our Organization the necessary tools to strengthen international cooperation, while national Governments make efforts to overcome increasingly complex problems relating to development. Our vision of the future cannot merely accept poverty and privation in far too many parts of the world, where populations are deprived of their fundamental right to food and education and even to water, health and a roof over their heads. Wishing to make its contribution to a much- needed international solidarity, the Government of Luxembourg has undertaken to double, by the year 2000, the percentage of its gross national product earmarked for official development assistance so as to reach the target of 0.7 per cent. The agenda for humanity, if I may use the expression of our Secretary-General, is the true challenge faced by the United Nations at the end of this twentieth century. From Rio to Cairo, through Vienna, Copenhagen and Beijing, major international conferences are supplying global answers to these global questions. Mankind, human development and commitment to his community are at the heart of those concerns, whether we speak of the Earth Summit, the World Conference on Human Rights, the International Conference on Population and Development, the World Summit for Social Development or the Fourth World Conference on Women. Improving the status of women and of women’s general access to education and health is one of the keys to the success of this vast undertaking. Millions of people in many parts of the world continue to fall victim to flagrant violations of their human rights. The Vienna Conference reaffirmed the universal validity of those human rights. The creation at the last session of the General Assembly of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights should encourage greater respect for those principles. However, undertakings assumed are valuable only if they are translated into practical action. Thus, we must ensure that the United Nations has the necessary support and means in this sphere to implement its programme of action. We must take the necessary measures to increase the resources and strengthen the functioning of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights, as well as that of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. Non-governmental organizations, through their actions, are also now a part of the international conscience, including its conscience in regard to respect for human rights. Thus, our Organization and all its Member States should recognize and facilitate the important role played by those organizations. As we draw near to the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, our Organization has been undertaking a series of negotiations with a view to revising its working methods. The work with a view to the necessary reform of the Security Council has continued over the past year. It will be necessary to persevere in our search for a solution that will reconcile the need for a more balanced composition with the concern for effective functioning. 26 It is also imperative to improve the methods of work of the Council and ensure greater transparency in its work and better communication with the members of the General Assembly. Although the latter do not participate in the deliberations of the Council, they are bound by its decisions and they are regularly requested to apply sanctions and to provide funds or personnel for the implementation of peace- keeping operations. The Secretariat is a key institution of the United Nations system. It must have the necessary means to carry out the innovative work it has been undertaking energetically and courageously. At the same time, however, we should combat the proliferation of institutions, since this exhausts the limited resources of our Organization and compromises the cogency of its efforts. In this period of limited resources, it is also imperative that Member States seriously take up the question of effective management. Strict budgetary discipline is needed, and resources should no longer be wasted on operations with ill-defined goals. In that connection, we welcome the various steps taken by the Secretary-General with a view to making better use of the resources provided to the Organization and creating a more rigorous financial inspection system. Our Organization, in the end, will succeed only through the way in which each State discharges its own responsibilities under the Charter. They include financial responsibilities. The obligation of solidarity that is binding upon all States of our Organization should motivate them to discharge their budgetary obligations to the United Nations in full and on time. Our Organization, which is the only forum that brings together virtually all the States of the world, needs the commitment of its Members. It needs decisions that are well thought out. It needs measures for proper follow-up. Only in that way will it be able usefully to contribute to channelling international efforts to realize our common goal: which is to make our planet a place where peace, security and greater prosperity for all peoples of the world can prevail. I should like to begin by extending my congratulations to Mr. Amara Essy on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty- ninth session. It is a fitting acknowledgement of his considerable experience, as well as a tribute to his country’s high standing in the international community. I should also like to offer greetings and special words of gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the attention and careful consideration he has accorded to my country’s problems and for his selfless devotion to the cause of securing a safer and saner world for future generations. The Georgian people are looking forward with great anticipation to his forthcoming official visit to Georgia. First of all, I would like to convey to the Assembly the greetings and best wishes for productive work from the Head of State and Chairman of the Parliament of the Republic of Georgia, Mr. Eduard Shevardnadze. Just over two years have passed since the day I had the privilege of ushering my country into the United Nations as its one hundred seventy-ninth Member and addressing the Assembly from this rostrum. It was a moment of joy and celebration for my nation. Many events have taken place in those two years, and they certainly cannot serve as a basis for euphoria and complacency. My country has only recently set out on the arduous journey of building a democratic society. It is encountering numerous internal, as well as external, problems in its efforts. Despite fair and democratic elections and the forming of government structures, the country continues to languish in a deep economic and political crisis. The international community has extended a helping hand to Georgia, and I should like to convey our appreciation and gratitude to the Governments of the United States of America, the Russian Federation, Germany, other States members of the European Union and Turkey, to name but a few, as well as to the United Nations and its specialized agencies, for their invaluable assistance to my country in times of hardship. Granted, a large measure of the problems facing Georgia and all those nations which have only recently reverted to independence and normal development have domestic roots and must be addressed, first and foremost, by the countries themselves. But let us leave the internal aspect aside for the moment and concentrate on the international environment, of which these nations, as well as all other nations, are a part. With the demise of the cold war the world underwent profound changes. The risk of an all-out nuclear catastrophe receded, and the world thus became a less dangerous place; but at the same time it became less stable and less predictable. The relationship between States and other actors on the international scene has changed, too. The system of post-war international relations was tailored to the economic, political, ideological, geographic and other realities of that era. One of these realities was a deep realization of the fact that a totalitarian regime of the fascist variety had been defeated. Therefore, despite its major flaws, the post-war bipolar system generally responded to the demands of the times and somehow ensured security and stability on our planet. Our generation witnessed the fall of another totalitarian regime with the downfall of communist ideology and of its followers. This resulted in deep changes in the nature of international relations. Different demands are being dictated by the times and different challenges are now facing the community of nations. This end of a whole era of human history, however, was not followed by the creation of a new system of international relations that would correspond to the realities of the contemporary world, as happened some 50 years ago. International political institutions, as well as political thought in general, found themselves unprepared for the changes, and they continue to apply stop-gap measures to this very day. Today’s political leaders seem to have underestimated both the essence and the importance of these changes; hence the inability to cope with today’s problems or with the challenges of the post-confrontational world. The infrastructure, principles, tools and mentality of international relations need to be adapted to the changed circumstances. Therein lies the external aspect of the problems that the newly emerging independent States, including my own country, are facing. They are taking their first unsure steps on the road to a democratic society, a long and difficult road in a world that is still reeling from the nature of the changes and that realizes neither the extent of the predicament these nations face nor the stake it has in their existence and stable development. 24 Many of these nations, including my own, can, unfortunately, be described as 'hot spots': they are the unhealed wounds that cover the body of our planet. These open wounds cry out for radical surgery, while the peace-keeping activities of the international community, despite its best efforts, tend in some cases to resemble cautious treatment with prescribed medication. Perhaps, as I am the Foreign Minister of Georgia, it is not for me to complain about the deficiencies of the United Nations in terms of its peace-keeping activities. The Organization as a whole, its Security Council, Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali and his Special Envoy, Ambassador Brunner of Switzerland, have accorded a great deal of attention to the problems of my tormented country. On the issue of Georgia’s Abkhazia region alone, nine Security Council resolutions have been adopted, numerous missions have been dispatched and the mandate of the United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG) has been extended. Alas, this has not proved to be sufficient. Clear decisions and bold, timely action are what the peoples of the world expect of the United Nations and of the Member States that make up the Organization. In this regard, I would like to note how useful and timely the Georgian Government found the recent visit to Georgia of the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Ambassador Madeleine Albright. That visit also demonstrates the attention President Clinton attaches to events in Georgia. While I would not want to belabour the issue of 'hot spots,' the predicament of my own country does not allow me to ignore this problem altogether. We would hate to think that yet another experiment is perhaps being conducted in Georgia, the result of which may well have a direct bearing on the security and sovereignty of other nations. It is hard to describe the disappointment - and sometimes apathy - which the Georgian nation is feeling with regard to whether the international community will be able to promote a peaceful settlement of the Abkhazian conflict. These feelings have created a dangerous and volatile political situation domestically. A wave of indignation is rising in Parliament and among the people at the inability to resolve this conflict - and the efforts to do so have been going on for more than a year now - and allow almost 300,000 displaced persons, who escaped physical extermination, to return to their homes and continue their lives. At the heart of the Abkhazian conflict is an attempt by forces of aggressive separatism, bolstered by external support, to wrench a piece of territory away from a sovereign State and to create, in that part of Georgia, a provincial dictatorship based on ethnic hatred, intolerance and discrimination. We appealed to the United Nations in the hope that it would be responsive to our desire to settle the conflict by peaceful means through a United Nations peace-keeping operation. But our hopes were only partially fulfilled. Despite almost a dozen resolutions of the Security Council, Member States could find neither the financial resources, the military contingents nor the political will to order a peace-keeping operation in Georgia. Convinced of the possibility of a fair solution under the auspices of the United Nations, the Georgian Government has been negotiating with the separatists in good faith all this time under the auspices of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, with the Russian Federation as facilitator and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) as an observer. As a result, a number of agreements have been signed, which are designed to promote the return of the displaced persons to their homes and a settlement of the conflict. But the bitter memory of a string of broken promises and unfulfilled obligations on the part of the separatists confirms how naive it is to expect a forthcoming position from a regime that conducts 'ethnic cleansing' and genocide against the Georgian population. Predictably, the Abkhazian separatists are using far-fetched pretexts to continue ignoring their commitments under the agreements that have been signed. Frustrated in its hopes for a United Nations peace-keeping operation in Abkhazia, the Government of the Republic of Georgia sent a similar appeal to the heads of the States members of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). A decision was reached and a CIS peace-keeping force was deployed in the zone of conflict. While its presence is beneficial and provides hope for a settlement, we feel that it could be more active and proceed beyond the stage of disengaging the parties in conflict. 25 The Abkhazian conflict is not a problem for Georgia alone. Believe me, I am not saying this in order to lay our problems at somebody else’s doorstep. This conflict has direct and dangerous implications for the entire world. There are also compelling reasons why the world should be concerned with finding a solution to this problem. Above all, we believe that the international community simply cannot act as an outside observer when a blatant attempt is being made against the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a Member State and when peace and stability are threatened. Allowing separatism to attain its goals in one country would set a precedent that could start a chain reaction throughout the world. And how many of us represented here today can safely say that their countries, their peoples, are immune from this danger? And, lastly, the Caucasus is one of those areas in the world which have a geopolitical importance and bearing on the stability of large regions of the planet. The Caucasus is one of the world’s few crossroads where North, South, East and West meet, and where continents, cultures, interests and strategies encounter one another. If peace and stability cannot be maintained in the Caucasus, they cannot be maintained anywhere. In this regard, it is tragic that our closest neighbours, Armenia and Azerbaijan, have been unable to resolve their differences for so many years now. This conflict, too, tears at the fabric of the Caucasus and greatly increases the instability of the region, as well as the misery of hundreds of thousands of people. It is my Government’s firm position that the Abkhazian conflict can and should be resolved by peaceful means. A great deal of effort, delicate statesmanship and deep commitment are required from all sides. The Georgian Government has to be very meticulous in elaborating a modern, workable and fair structure for its ethnically and culturally diverse population, a diversity which throughout the centuries has been a source of friendship, stability and pride, and never of tension or hatred. Most important, it has to create a strong economic base for its people, one that would prevent economic hardships from taking on a political and ethnic character. Georgia will never accept the loss of any part of its territory. Not only because its territory is not large, but also because what it has is incontestably its own - every square inch of it. The leaders of the Abkhazian separatists have to realize this. They too have to find the political courage and will, the flexibility and the foresight, to negotiate in good faith and come to a settlement that would be fair and lasting, so that future generations of Georgians and Abkhazians could forget this one dark page in their fathers’ lives and pick up in friendship and peace where their grandfathers left off. The Russian Federation is an active participant in the process designed to find a peaceful solution to the Abkhazian conflict. It has taken on a great responsibility with regard to this peace process. We firmly believe that, despite the feelings of some political groups, the Russian Federation, as a great Power - and President Yeltsin, as the leader of that nation - does indeed want to see a strong, stable, sovereign, united and friendly Georgia on its southern border. Any other considerations would be contrary to logic. We are gratified that in his address to this Assembly a few days ago President Yeltsin alluded to this when he said that Russia’s relations towards other States members of the Commonwealth of Independent States are based on good will and mutual benefit. In short, it is a time to think not about the mistakes of the past, but about the possibilities for the future. Georgia has only recently joined the community of nations as a full-fledged member. And yet this period has been filled with events of great intensity and emotion for us. We feel an obligation to share our experience and thoughts in a number of areas which, we believe, will contribute to the effectiveness of our collective efforts in the future. We live in troubled times and are witness to rapid, unpredictable changes in the world. It is of paramount importance that contemporary political thought bring existing international institutions into conformity with the international political realities of today. It would seem that even such a representative body as the United Nations, if it is to continue to be ahead of events and fulfil its role as the parliament of man in a new situation, may have to effect some changes in its structure. The reforms - prompted by the times - which the Organization is about to embark upon, the efforts of the Secretary-General to implement them, and the consent of the majority of the Member States are evidence that the time has come for a new era in international relations. The number of Member States has more than doubled since the creation of the United Nations. We fully support the proposal to reflect these changes by increasing the numerical composition of the Security 26 Council to 21, and we believe that the candidacies of Germany and Japan are appropriate for inclusion as new permanent members of the enlarged Security Council. Apart from reflecting the political and economic weight of these nations, this would also enable us finally to bring to a close the legacy of the Second World War and the cold war. In considering the possibilities for increasing the number of permanent and non-permanent members of the Council, one of the main criteria, in our view, should be the involvement and role of member States in maintaining universal peace and stability. Although we see this consideration as a crucial one, other aspects, such as equitable geographical representation, should not be neglected either. The task of creating a modern comprehensive system of ensuring peace and security in the world requires an increase in the effectiveness of the International Court of Justice, the main judicial body of the United Nations. We share the concern of the Secretary-General that the Court, the most important instrument for the settlement of disputes, is not being fully utilized for this purpose. More efficient use of the International Court would, undoubtedly, reinforce the ability of the United Nations to promote and strengthen peace. In this regard, we fully support the initiative of the Secretary-General to recognize the universal jurisdiction of the International Court, in accordance with Article 36 of its Statute, and on the basis of the recommendations put forward in the report of the Secretary- General entitled 'An Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277). Efforts aimed at creating a comprehensive system of international security can be effective today only if they are applied at both the global and the regional level. In our view, the ties between the global and regional security systems are inadequate for today’s needs, and are maintained in a haphazard way. In this regard we consider it timely to raise the issue of achieving a higher level of interaction between global and regional security systems by concluding a series of special 'form' treaties that will ensure more effective use, in close coordination, of their respective mechanisms. Without prejudice to United Nations rules and regulations and to the provisions of the Charter, or to the statutes of the regional systems, these treaties should provide, inter alia, for regional organizations to exercise consultative and controlling functions on behalf, and on the authorization, of the United Nations. In various international forums we often discuss the specific challenges of the post-confrontational world. Separatism, especially in its aggressive, extremist form, is one of the most dangerous of these challenges, and it is spreading like a cancer all over the planet. We believe that the creation of a legal basis for the containment of aggressive separatism is imperative and long overdue so that situations, such as the one in Georgia, will not flare up in other parts of the world in future, or if they do, they will be localized and defused in a timely manner. We propose that clear provisions be inserted into international legal documents, outlawing aggressive, extremist separatism from its first stirrings. It is becoming more and more clear that the mere reiteration and confirmation of the principle of territorial integrity and the inviolability of borders is insufficient, all the more so since it is being flagrantly disregarded in many instances. These legal provisions should also envisage a strict embargo on military deliveries and swift, surgical economic measures against separatist movements that have turned to armed struggle and violence, as well as a mechanism to use, in exceptional cases, the most decisive measure - military force. The military forces for these operations could be set up in one of two ways: either United Nations stand-by forces, an option which would entail considerable financial expense, or special well-trained units within the armed forces of each Member State which, when needed, could be put under the direct command of the United Nations Military Staff Committee, which itself could become more active and energetic. While the second option seems more realistic at present, I would still like to stress the virtues of early preventive measures against such conflicts. Perhaps many of them could be localized and defused at an early stage, if the United Nations had relatively small, mobile forces of rapid reaction and deployment at its disposal. These forces could be made up on an international voluntary basis, thereby emphasizing their impartial and unbiased nature. They could be rapidly deployed in the conflict zone and, acting within a limited mandate, could ensure the disengagement of the conflicting parties in order to create the conditions for the deployment of a United Nations peace-keeping force. In this regard, it would also seem indispensable to us to set up a special department within the United Nations 27 Secretariat the sole purpose of which would be to work to resolve conflict situations. Ten highly experienced and respected political figures could form the nucleus of such a department. To perform their functions they would be vested with special rights and obligations. Within such a department a special unit could be set up to coordinate the actions of the rapid deployment force. It would ensure the collection of information and intelligence data, and generally function as operations headquarters. The unit could also provide valuable early-warning information on potential conflict situations involving separatist tendencies. To anticipate a natural question on the financing of such forces, I should say that, yes, it will undoubtedly entail additional financial, material means and human resources. This, however, is a case of the end clearly justifying the means. As we have paid a far greater price for being late so often in the past, the international community can no longer afford such a luxury. A few days ago a proposal was made very forcefully from this rostrum that, in order to safeguard and uphold the rights of national minorities, the principles of the Declaration on the rights of national minorities should be embodied in the legislation of all member States. We firmly support the principle of providing national minorities with wide political, economic and cultural rights, and of ensuring civil and human rights for everyone. We would thus like to go a step further and propose to codify all aspects of this issue. Since every right presumes a responsibility, we believe that it is imperative that international legal documents and national legislations of Member States, along with the rights of national minorities, also incorporate provisions on the responsibilities of these minorities towards the country of which they form a part. In view of the rapidly growing role of individual leaders and personalities in international relations today, it would seem appropriate to us to consider also the issue of responsibility for an individual’s role in the violation of human rights and liberties of persons, or groups of persons. Thus, we fully support the proposal to work out a declaration on the rights and responsibilities of individuals, groups and political bodies to ensure commonly accepted freedoms and human rights. It is precisely in this context that Georgia supported the creation of the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. I have attempted to outline some of my Government’s thoughts with regard to the changes that it thinks should be made in the structure and work of the Organization in view of the many profound changes in the international landscape today. While these are just some elements, a comprehensive and balanced vision of the needed changes is laid out by the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali in 'An Agenda for Peace' and other documents. The implementation of the changes would go a long way towards eliminating many of the problems that we are discussing in this Hall and would also represent, as Mr. Eduard Shevardnadze put it so aptly, a very timely 'blood transfusion' for the entire international system. An important period is approaching in the life of the Organization. Next year we will be commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. We have reached a mature age which allows us to take stock of the Organization’s many accomplishments, but also one that obliges us to look ahead to what still needs to be done. A half century of existence and experience confers even greater responsibility upon the Organization, as well as upon individual Member States. It imposes grander objectives, but also opens up wider horizons. Some of these objectives can be attained in our lifetime, while others will be left to succeeding generations. It is our responsibility to provide a legacy which will serve as a stepping-stone for mankind to make a leap into the twenty-first century and land softly on solid ground. Georgia is a small country, but it is a democratic country, and its foreign-policy objective is to have 28 peaceful, friendly relations with all the nations of the world. Georgia will not be a passive observer of international events; it will carry its fair share of the responsibilities of the international community and make its contribution to achieving our common goals. I should like to congratulate Mr. Essy on his election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly and to express our appreciation of the great responsibilities he will be shouldering, together with the Secretary-General, in preparing for the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. I also take this opportunity to salute, on behalf of my country, Syria, the long and arduous struggle of Africa against the system of apartheid in South Africa. This struggle, recently crowned with the establishment of a united, democratic and non-racial Republic of South Africa, is a triumph not only for Africa but also for humanity and the international community as a whole. It is especially a triumph for the United Nations as it is one of its most important achievements. This great accomplishment will remain forever a source of inspiration and optimism for us all that all forms of racism are inevitably doomed to extinction. The commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations will raise fundamental questions about the role and achievements of the Organization and the obstacles it has faced and continues to face. In our opinion, the most important question will focus on the reform and restructuring of the United Nations to make it more democratic and thus more capable of responding to the major changes that have taken place on the international scene, particularly since the end of the cold war. It seems that none of the Member States objects in principle to the idea of introducing reforms to the United Nations, including the enlargement of the Security Council’s membership. However, the question that could take years before any agreement is reached on it is that which relates to the nature of the required reforms, the criteria for choosing the new members of the Security Council and, first and foremost, the right of veto: whether to expand it or abolish it altogether from the Charter. More than two-thirds of the current Members of the United Nations did not participate in drafting the Charter of the United Nations, either because they were languishing under colonialism or because, after independence, they were thrust into the cold war, for which the United Nations was an important arena. In this context, developing countries pose the following question: If colonialism is truly a thing of the past and if the cold war is indeed over, what other reasons are there to prevent the developing countries from actively participating in the restructuring of the United Nations and from taking the share they are democratically entitled to in the Security Council’s membership? We hope that the answer will not be a negative one and that the cold war will no longer be waged in new innovative forms and under different pretexts. That would be in no one’s interest and would serve no useful purpose, either in the short or in the long term. Today’s world, North and South, East and West, faces unparalleled challenges that require the cooperation of all Member States in facing up to them. Those challenges may initially appear to be of a minor nature, but they may well grow and spread like a plague. In many continents, dozens of civil wars have been spawned from the womb of the cold war. The causes of these wars are many: national, ethnic, religious and tribal. Their victims are hundreds of thousands, while the refugees and displaced persons they uproot are in the tens 17 of millions. The number of those who live below the poverty line in the world today has reached almost one fifth of the inhabitants of the globe. About 90 per cent of those live in developing countries. A phenomenon that seems truly odd and surprising is the spread of organized crime to countries where such a phenomenon was never known before. Organized crime now has its own international networks, its secret transnational organizations are estimated to be in the thousands. Such organizations have the ability to break the most rigorous of laws by all the illegitimate means available to them, including the smuggling of nuclear components and their scientific designs. The indispensable international cooperation needed to meet such varied challenges cannot achieve the desired results if certain of its principal parties take to evoking the spirit of the cold war by calling up the past instead of looking forward to the future or if they act under the influence of some racist background that inspires their propaganda or election campaigns. It is no exaggeration to say that such elements and subjective motives have already played a role in obstructing international efforts to address a number of serious crises, particularly those in which human suffering has reached levels that defy description and stymie the imagination, as in the cases of Bosnia, Somalia and Rwanda, not to mention Afghanistan, where the shortsightedness of the conflicting parties has overwhelmed all wisdom and prudence. On the other hand, however, we must commend the United States of America for resorting to political dialogue with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and with Cuba instead of continuing to pursue its policy of confrontation against them. These are positive measures which we hope will continue and expand to encompass other issues, in the forefront of which is that of Lockerbie disaster and Libya, so that political dialogue will become the most appropriate option inresolving disputes between States. In the same vein, we hope that the United Arab Emirates and Iran will be able, through amicable dialogue, to reach a satisfactory solution to the question of the disputed islands that would preserve the rights of both parties and consolidate friendly relations between the two neighbours. Syria was one of the first States in the Middle East to sign, as early as 1968, the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). In doing so, Syria was prompted by its conviction that the possession of such an overkill weapon by any State in our highly sensitive region would be a major cause for concern, not only to the peoples of the region, but also to the world at large. At the time, Syria expected that its early signing of the NPT would be an incentive to Israel, sooner or later, to sign in turn and would dissuade it from possessing nuclear weapons. Regrettably, we were to discover that our expectations were not justified. Israel, as yet, has neither adhered to the NPT, nor agreed to open its nuclear installations to international inspection. Once again, and on the occasion of the Paris Conference on Banning of Chemical Weapons in January 1989, Syria took the initiative to call for making the Middle East a region free of all nuclear, chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction within the framework of the United Nations. However, Israel did not respond to this call nor did it respond to any of the calls of the United Nations, the International Atomic Energy Agency or those of the Conferences of the Non- Aligned Movement or the Islamic Conference. This is an issue that has become of the utmost importance and gravity, particularly in the light of the ongoing peace process in the Middle East. It is not acceptable for any one party to have a privileged or exceptional position at the expense of others in regard to sensitive and decisive matters that relate to regional security which ought to be based on co-equality and mutuality. The forthcoming conference of the States Parties to the NPT scheduled to review the extension of its tenure which is about to expire, affords a rare opportunity for all States in the region to demonstrate their peaceful intentions. The accession by all States in the Middle East to the NPT is a vital step towards transforming the Middle East to a region free of all weapons of mass destruction. From this rostrum, and in this context, the Syrian Arab Republic calls upon Israel to accede to the NPT and to place its nuclear installations under the inspection of the Atomic Energy Agency so that the States of the region may be able to agree to extending the Treaty. This, if it is done, will be an important step towards the creation of a climate of confidence which in turn will contribute to building peace and security in the Middle East. Three years have passed since the convening of the Madrid Conference and no just and comprehensive peace 18 in the Middle East has materialized. This is a fact that cannot be cancelled out by the achievement of some progress on some tracks. Our region is the cradle of human civilization and monotheistic religions. Succeeding generations of its peoples have become accustomed to repel invaders. It is time for the region to enjoy peace and stability. This cannot be achieved through half-measure solutions or through the trickle down of droplets of peace, nor can it be achieved through agreements which encroach on the national dignity or compromise the interests of a nation. Syria accepted the initiative of the United States in which the United States undertook to work towards the achievement of a just and comprehensive peace in the region, on the basis of international legality, Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and the land-for-peace formula including a political solution to the question of the national rights of the Palestinian people. The United States also confirmed that in pursuance of its previous positions rejecting the extension of Israeli law to the Syrian Golan Heights, it did not agree to the annexation of any part of the territories occupied in 1967. In the light of the complexities of the Arab-Israeli conflict and the suspicions of the Arab parties regarding Israel’s intentions, Syria took two important decisions which complemented one another. The first decision was our commitment to coordinate with the Arab parties participating in the peace process. This was prompted by our conviction that the other Arab parties would benefit from such solidarity as well as from the position of Syria and its various potentialities. We are also convinced that the comprehensiveness of the solution would be a guarantee to all parties should they respond to the requirements of peace. The second decision was that the peace option was a strategic one. By so doing we misled no one: neither our own people nor any of the others, as to the truth of our intentions, so that they may act accordingly. In this context, we were absolutely convinced that these two important decisions were going to be in the interest of all parties participating in the peace process. These two decisions, we believed, would also facilitate the task of the two sponsors, the United States and the Russian Federation, in achieving full peace in the region in return for full withdrawal from the Arab territories occupied in 1967. Regrettably, the peace process did not continue on the right track towards achieving its desired objective. There are many reasons for that. However, we see no point in elaborating on them now. Nor do we want to digress and elaborate on the current position of those parties which have strayed from Arab coordination. Suffice it to refer to an essential point that was revealed in their public statements. The point is that they have now begun to question the usefulness of what they have done. The fact is they have become unable to contribute to the achievement of a just and comprehensive peace in the region. In fact, the optimistic trumpetings by Israel about great progress achieved in the peace process is not true, except from Israel’s point of view. The agreements reached so far have achieved nothing but what Israel wanted from the land-for-peace formula while the Arab party that signed those agreements with Israel still awaits Israel’s response to its demands. The most important characteristic of Syria’s policy under the leadership of President Hafez al-Assad, is the reconciling of principle and reality. Principles that cannot survive on the ground are bound to decline. On the other hand, living the reality without adhering to one’s principles leads to decline. Syria wants peace, and realizes that all parties have a stake in this peace. It realizes also that peace has objective requirements, and it is prepared to fulfil those requirements that are agreed upon. Syria means what it says and adheres to what it means. The land-for-peace equation must be implemented in both its parts. The return of the entire Golan is not open to compromise, unjustified delay or a misplaced testing of intentions. On this basis, Syria supports a genuine peace - a peace that lives and flourishes without artificial obstacles or arbitrary conditions. Putting on the peace process a greater burden than it can bear does not help to achieve peace; rather, it poses a threat to the process. The peace process should not be weighed down with issues that fall outside its framework. 19 It is regrettable that, as a result of its strong influence on the media, Israel has managed to distort information and turn facts on their head, to the extent that those in some circles of Western public opinion now claim that Syria used the Golan Heights to launch offensives against the Israelis, whereas, in fact, the opposite was the case. Israel uses the pretext of security in an attempt to justify its occupation of the Golan Heights and its refusal to withdraw therefrom. It was Israel, not Syria, that started the armed clashes in the period between 1949 and 1967. United Nations records and resolutions on this matter adopted by the Security Council during that period will demonstrate beyond the shadow of a doubt that Israel was responsible for opening fire for the purpose of expelling Syrian farmers from their land and preventing them from reaping their harvest. It was natural that the Syrian side should have defended its own citizens and land by responding every time they were fired upon. The records to which I have referred are supported by memoirs published by senior United Nations officers who were entrusted with the task of supervising the truce between Syria and Israel during that period. Among those officers are General Odd Bull and General Karl van Horn. Hills and mountains are no obstacle to today’s sophisticated weapons. In any case, the Golan Heights are directly opposite the Galilee Mountains, which are within Israel and are higher than the Golan Heights. Anyway, whether or not the Israeli public are aware of the truth of what I have just said, the United Nations Charter states the basic principle of the non-acquisition of territory by force. This principle has been confirmed in many Security Council resolutions. The current peace process cannot be completed without Israel’s withdrawing from the entire Syrian Golan and southern Lebanon. We believe that our position is just. We have a right that we shall never relinquish. As President Assad has said, 'Relinquishing any part of a nation’s territory amounts to relinquishing the entire country and its people’s free will.' We want a just peace that restores everyone’s legitimate right - the comprehensive peace after which the peoples of the region aspire and under which they will be able to enjoy security, stability and prosperity. At the outset, Sir, please allow me, on behalf of my country, my delegation and speaking for myself, to join previous speakers in most warmly congratulating you and, through you, your country on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your excellent qualifications, extensive experience, wisdom and detailed knowledge of international affairs, give us confidence in that you will guide the deliberations at this session to successful conclusions. I should like to take this opportunity also to express our gratitude and appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Samuel Insanally, for the important role he played in the forty-eighth session and for his tireless activity throughout it. Similarly, fairness compels us to express our admiration and great appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his invaluable and unremitting efforts since he took up his post, to increase the importance of the United Nations, make it more effective and maximize its ability to carry out its duties properly, and thereby to increase the confidence of mankind in general, and every nation in particular, in the credibility of this Organization’s commitment to the purposes and principles of its Charter. Foremost among those is the maintenance of peace and security on the basis of justice and equality. It is our hope that he will continue to play his role with the same enthusiasm and high-mindedness. Having studied the annual report on the work of the Organization, which we have all received, we can say it is comprehensive and accurate. The Secretary-General deserves our gratitude and appreciation for the outstanding effort he has put into drawing up that report, and in presenting it in such a satisfactory form. However, we should like to make some remarks on the references made in the report with regard to Yemen. As members are aware, our country, the Republic of Yemen, was earlier this year exposed to bloody sedition as a result of a dangerous conspiracy on the part of a handful of treacherous mercenary elements who chose to isolate themselves from the rest of their fellow countrymen, to rebel against legitimate institutions, overturn constitutional legality and trample on the Constitution, law and order, with the aim of destroying the unity of the country, burying it alive and aborting our experiment in democracy based on political and party pluralism, which was successful despite the shortness of the period during which it has been in place. First, I should like to point out that history shows that throughout the ages our country, Yemen, has always been a single political unit, with the exception of a few periods of varying lengths during which it was subjected to division or segmentation. Sometimes this was the result of a power struggle, and sometimes the result of total or partial occupation by one or more foreign powers. However, it was never long before Yemen regained its unity at the hands of its own people, who never lost sight of the fact that they are a single Muslim, Arab, Yemeni people, and never forgot for one moment that they belonged to one nation. Throughout the earlier decades of this century, wherein our people struggled against the dictatorial rule of the Imam in the North and British colonialism in the South, the unity of Yemen was the loftiest ideal of our people and its dearest national aspiration. Even after another State was established in the South once it became independent of the United Kingdom on 30 November 1967, and after the revolution of 26 September 1962 in the North, which swept away the reactionary rule of the royalist Imam and replaced it with a republic, the return to Yemen of unity in the form of a single State remained an all-embracing, popular and insistent demand. Our people never accepted that the separation should continue once its national soil had been liberated from the yoke of occupation. They persisted in refusing to accept that abnormal situation and in resisting it by every means. Each of the two former Yemeni States adopted a name which emphasized the fact that it belonged to one State called Yemen. Their rejection of partition led each of those States to refer to the other as its “other half”. Awareness of this strength of feeling among all our people in support of the unity of Yemen and of their rejection of partition made the successive leaders in both Sana’a and Aden spare no effort in vying with each other and pressuring each other on the question of unity. This led to two outbreaks of hostilities between the two parts, the first in 1972 and the second in 1979 and, throughout, tension and conflict between them persisted and continued to flare up from time to time. However, developments since the beginning of 1986 — starting with the tragic civil strife between the partners in power in the South and the comrades of the Socialist Party, the sole ruling party, followed by the policy changes in the Soviet Union culminating in the fall of regimes in the countries of what used to be called the 16 socialist, or Eastern, bloc and, finally, the end of the cold war — all this created the right conditions for re-uniting Yemen. Another factor was that the regime in the South, which had been tightly linked to the Soviet Union and its socialist- country allies, found itself unable to oppose internal and external enemies without strong international backing. It was therefore possible to agree to unite the two halves of the country on 30 November 1989, during President Lieutenant-General Ali Abdullah Saleh’s visit to Aden on the twenty-second anniversary of the South’s independence, and to persuade the then ruling Socialist Party leadership to accept unification. On 22 May 1990 unity was peacefully and voluntarily established in the form of a single State called the Republic of Yemen, a Republic based on democracy and pluralism. The first general parliamentary elections were scheduled to take place at the end of a period of transition of two and a half years, during which time Yemen was to be governed jointly by elements drawn from the leadership of each of the previous two “halves” of the country. However, as time passed and the agreed date for the scheduled parliamentary elections drew near, some high Government officials from the leadership of the Socialist Party — the other governing partner at that time — began to create problems and crises in order to prevent the holding of elections on the agreed date. As a result, the elections were postponed from November 1992 to 27 April 1993. The elections, when they finally took place, were indeed free and fair, as was attested to by all those who took part in monitoring them. Those monitors included representatives of States, organizations and institutes concerned with democracy and the protection of human rights and freedoms, side by side with journalists and correspondents from Arab and non-Arab news agencies. In an editorial published at the time of the elections, The New York Times described them as “a true revolution in the furthest part of the Southern Arabian peninsula”. Despite the fact that the results of the election gave the General People’s Congress, under the leadership of His Excellency President Ali Abdullah Saleh, Chairman of the Presidential Council at that time, the sole right to form a Government, the President and his party favoured a coalition with the other two important parties: the Islah party, the Yemeni Alliance for Reform (YAR) and the Yemeni Socialist Party. This was inspired by a genuine desire to strengthen the bonds of national consensus, to guarantee secure foundations and support for the successful establishment of national unity, particularly in its early stages, and to guarantee continuity and survival for a democratic experiment which was still in its cradle. They also aimed at preventing conspirators and opportunists from having any leeway to exacerbate disagreements or provoke armed conflict. Only a few weeks after the formation of the coalition Government, on 31 May of that year, while the freely and directly elected Parliament was preparing to carry out its work and discharge its duties, there began to appear certain indications that a suspect plot was being hatched. It was clear that elements of the leadership of the partner in the governing coalition, the Socialist Party, who held important positions in the constitutional institutions and, more precisely, in the Presidential Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, were behind the plan. The prevailing belief was that the matter was nothing more than an attempt to exert pressure in order to extract more concessions and a bargaining chip they used to obtain more government posts or, in the very least, to maintain positions in the Presidential Council when it was re-elected, if that was decided. Again, it could have been an attempt to secure the post of Vice-President of the Republic if the form of the Presidency of the State was going to be changed from a Presidential Council to a republican presidency. Naturally, the results of the general elections did not suit the ruling elements of the Socialist Party, despite their sharing in power and the important leading positions they held. That was perhaps due to their addiction to being the sole ruling centralized totalitarian authority, their love of ruling without partners and the fact that they lacked belief in the country’s unity, and had no deep-rooted confidence in democracy, political pluralism or in free direct elections. Suddenly, without any reason or justification, in accordance with a carefully planned time-table, those elements created a political crisis, and matters reached the point where an attempt was made to ruin or at least to paralyse the institutions and apparatus of the State and to usurp the constitutional legality derived from the will of the people through the ballot box and replace it with a legality derived from decisions taken as result of dialogue between different parties. Those conspiring elements were not satisfied with that, despite the grave risks involved. Rather, their arrogance and disregard of legality were carried to the point of wanting to impose their tutelage over the people and to impose an undeclared partition through the continual use of an 17 iron-fist policy and absolute control over a number of Governorates, which they used to rule by force and oppression in the days before unification. Despite all the generous concessions that continued to be made from time to time by the leadership of the majority, under the direction of His Excellency President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who was at that time Chairman of the Presidential Council, the elements bent on separatism stepped up their challenge and their disregard of constitutional legality to the point of triggering hostilities in the hope of bringing Arab or international forces to separate the combatants and force each side to withdraw beyond the old borders dividing the two halves. Their aim was to put an end to unification, to declare another separate State on part of the territory of the homeland, and thereby to revert to the situation that existed before 22 May 1990. However, our people stood behind our armed forces and security forces, whose loyalty set them squarely on the side of legality. Those forces were able to turn the fighting decisively in favour of unity and democracy, and by so doing were able to abort the suspect plot and to maintain Yemen as the unified single State it has been throughout its long history. Today, Yemen has regained its stability and ensured its security, after that ordeal, and has put an end to sedition. A general amnesty has been declared, and national reconciliation has been achieved. Those who fell prey to deceit and disinformation have returned to the nation to participate in political life, and they benefit from the spirit of tolerance which characterizes the political leadership of President Ali Abdullah Saleh. Here I should like to emphasize to you and to the Secretary-General that no harm has befallen any of those people and that none of them has been put on trial. Most of them have gone back to their normal lives quite naturally. That was not all: the Socialist Party itself spontaneously elected a new leadership which contained many elements of the former leadership, and went back to participating in political activity in complete freedom. Its representatives in parliament participate in parliamentary life just as they did before. Within the framework of the leadership’s attempts to ensure the success and continued progress of our democratic experiment, and in order to expand the basis of popular power sharing, the elected parliament, on 27 September 1994, unanimously passed a number of constitutional amendments which provide for the introduction of a local governmental system based on the principle of free and fair elections. They also decided to create a consultative council to be established by republican decree from experienced and highly qualified personalities from various regions of Yemen to widen and expand the basis of representation and opinion. Last Saturday, 1 October 1994, the Chamber of Deputies — again in complete freedom — elected Lieutenant General Ali Abdullah Saleh President of the Republic in accordance with the amendment approved by the Parliament regarding the organization of the national presidency, which was amongst those constitutional amendments. Our choice of the democratic option based on political and party pluralism was not the result of pressure from any side, rather it was motivated by our conviction that democracy is the best contemporary method of government. It represents the path leading to development, progress, security and stability. However, the continued success of our democratic experiment remains subject to economic growth. That requires an end to the economic war that continues to be waged against our country. This is a war which takes many different forms, including the closing of markets in other countries of the region to our agricultural and industrial products. We therefore appeal to all our brethren in neighboring countries to lift all the barriers and remove all the obstacles to free trade and the movement of locally produced goods as an important step towards the normalization of relations, and the strengthening of brotherly ties and regional cooperation. As an extension of the national reconciliation process which we have begun to implement within Yemen, despite all the events which have taken place, hand in hand with that and in the same spirit, we call upon all neighboring countries to respond positively to our sincere initiative, to end the causes of dispute and resume normal relations, which will strengthen security and stability in the Arabian Peninsula region, based on good-neighborliness, mutual respect and non-interference in internal affairs. The Republic of Yemen has an important geographical and strategic position, as represented by its control over Bab al-Mandab, and the Red Sea and the Arabian Sea, which meet in its territorial waters in the Gulf of Aden. The Republic of Yemen is aware of its responsibilities and of the importance of the role it plays in the maintenance of security and stability in the Arabian Peninsula region, of the Gulf in particular, and the world in general. 18 In this context, we would like to appeal to the Security Council to lift the sanctions which are still in place against Iraq after such a long time, as the justifications for such sanctions no longer exist. The suffering of the Iraqi people has reached intolerable levels. Insistence on maintaining such measures will lead to deepening enmity and hatred between the States of the region. It is necessary to turn a new leaf and have recourse to dialogue in order to ensure the security and safety of all sides concerned, in a spirit of love and fraternity, and on the basis of respect for the independence and sovereignty and legal rights of every party. On the basis of our membership in a wider nation, we feel impelled to appeal to the Security Council to review its resolutions against Libya, our sister country, and accept the reasonable solutions put forward by the Arab League, which include the trial of the Lockerbie suspects before an international court, in accordance with the law of Scotland. With regard to the three islands disputed by the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran, we would like to ask both countries to work towards resolving this dispute between them through dialogue and mutual understanding based on respect for legitimate rights in accordance with legal evidence. It is very important indeed that cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and the League of Arab States should be strengthened, in the interests of the Arab world in particular, and of the rest of the world in general. The Middle East peace process has so far achieved an agreement between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel on the one hand, and Jordan and Israel on the other. However, a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the region remains linked to the withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Golan Heights and South Lebanon, the renunciation of the logic of power by the Tel Aviv government, and its acceptance of an independent Palestinian State in Gaza and the West Bank, including Holy Al Quds. We cannot forget our beloved brotherly Sudan. We underscore the need to respect and safeguard its unity and call for commitment to help it maintain that unity both on the territorial and the human levels. The fact that our sister country Somalia remains in the grip of fragmentation, anarchy and fighting, is deeply distressing to us and makes our hearts bleed. We will do all we can to help our neighbour and its fraternal, Arab, Muslim people to emerge from its terrible trial, by participating with other fraternal countries in the Committee which it was decided to form by the last session of the Arab Foreign Ministers which was held in Cairo. We hope this Committee will receive the cooperation of the United Nations. It is also a cause of deep sorrow that the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina remains a target of terrible aggression and continuous shelling by the Serb aggressors, while the world does nothing but make statements and threaten to take measures which have yet to materialize. Perhaps the least that could be done as a first step towards showing some determination in the face of Serb persistent disregard for peace and security in that important region, their trampling of the resolutions of international legality, would be to immediately lift the arms embargo and to begin to supply arms to the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to enable them to defend themselves against aggression. We have become ever more convinced that right will triumph over injustice, the same as the people of South Africa have done by eliminating apartheid and racial discrimination following such a long arduous struggle. We would like to express our happiness at seeing this new African State among us. We should also like to express to the pioneer of freedom fighters, President Nelson Mandela, our appreciation and respect. May we wish him all success and progress in leading his country, particularly after leading his people a phase of struggle with courage, resistance and steadfastness. It is important to mention here before concluding my statement, that the accusations against Islam and judging Islam from the point of view of certain acts of terrorism taking place here or there because there are others who are not Muslims who perpetuate acts of terrorism in various parts of the world without having any accusations levelled against their religions or their creeds. We therefore believe that we should all stand against any attempt to distort the concept and image of Islam and against any allegations against it because Islam is a religion which rejects violence and terrorism, a religion that calls for love, coexistence and peace. In order to show its respect and appreciation for the United Nations, the Republic of Yemen has formed a national committee to organize celebrations for the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of this international 19 Organization. We want our celebrations on this occasion to reflect the importance we attach to it. We should not miss the opportunity to refer also to the importance of working to enlarge the representative base of the Security Council, so as to take into consideration the international changes that have taken place since the establishment of the United Nations. One of the most important of these is the emergence of two major economic powers - Japan and Germany. They should join the Security Council as permanent members. There should also be just, permanent representation of regional groupings, including the Arab region. Finally, we hope that the fiftieth anniversary of this Organization will be an incentive for renewing the vitality and effectiveness of the United Nations, and an intensification of its role, in order to achieve the aims of the Charter in the light of the needs and requirements of the new international changes. It gives me great pleasure to convey on behalf of the Islamic State of Afghanistan our warm felicitations to Mr. Amara Essy on his unanimous election to the high office of President of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. The Afghan delegation assures him of its full cooperation during his term of office. 23 I cannot fail to express the gratitude of the Afghan delegation for the effective leadership shown by Ambassador Samuel Insanally, the President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session, in guiding the proceedings of that session. His Excellency Professor Burhannudin Rabbani, President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, has instructed me to convey to the Assembly a message he has addressed to it. I am privileged to read out that message now: 'Your Excellencies, Heads of State and Government participating in the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, 'His Excellency the Secretary-General, 'His Excellency the President of the General Assembly, 'I convey my best wishes for the prosperity, welfare and progress of your nations, and wish the United Nations and the current General Assembly session ever more success in furthering the cause of peace and social justice. 'I had desired to personally attend the current General Assembly session and avail myself of the opportunity to meet and extend to you, and through you to your Governments and peoples, the message of the Islamic State and the Afghan nation. However, important State engagements, particularly some ongoing developments concerning the consolidation of the political process in my country, prevented me from doing so. Therefore, I have asked the Chairman of the Afghan delegation to convey this brief message to the General Assembly. 'This message raises the cry of a nation which, with its unprecedented sacrifices, has played its historic role for the cause of world peace and stability and for the collapse of the hegemonistic and expansionist system of the former Soviet Union, as well as for the defence of freedom, social justice and democratic values. A nation which suffered more than 1.5 million sacrifices and immeasurable destruction in all spheres of its life has contributed to the ending of the cold war and to a considerable diminution of the threat of nuclear confrontation. It was the ending of global polarization that enabled East and West to attain positive understandings that produced assurances and trust leading to the establishment of extensive cooperation and the recognition of democracy as an accepted value and concept, irrespective of any bloc interest. 'We are mindful of the fact that our friends are equally grieved as a result of the prevailing sufferings imposed upon our innocent nation. We appreciate their readiness to endeavour to find an end to those destructive events. 'I would like to make it known that as far as the Islamic State is concerned, we have proved our sincerity and our dedication to a peaceful settlement of the present problems. To allow the political process to consolidate, I have announced my readiness to transfer power to a responsible and legitimate authority. I have even declared that I would not be a candidate during the transitional period. 'It is the warmonger elements who have taken advantage of our flexibility and conciliatory gestures, including our unilateral cease-fire declarations, to strengthen their political and military positions and please their outside supporters with moves towards the realization of their heinous designs. These are elements whose merciless rocket attacks on innocent civilian targets and the continued violation of international humanitarian law are matters of everyday life. 'The Afghan nation is astonished to continue to see a lack of adequate enthusiasm on the part of the world community to act effectively towards the realization of the following legitimate aspirations: 'First, an extensive collective endeavour to provide realistic and effective assistance to accelerate the ongoing political process inside the country; 'Secondly, an immediate start of practical assistance for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of war-torn Afghanistan, as well as mine clearance, to facilitate and speed up the repatriation of Afghan refugees; 'Thirdly, effective international measures to stop foreign interference, particularly in the form of the supply of weapons and ammunition to those who continue to cause immeasurable loss of life and destruction of property. 24 'Finding a solution to the existing problems of Afghanistan necessitates the taking of realistic and courageous action by the world community, the United Nations and, in particular, the United Nations Security Council. 'We are confident that clear and decisive action in continuation of the support extended to us during our 14 years of struggle would enable the Afghan nation once again to live in peace, equality and brotherhood, free from any form of racial, ethnic, linguistic and religious prejudice. It is in such an atmosphere of peace and tranquillity that Afghanistan could play its positive and effective role in the consolidation of regional peace and stability as a positive element, defending democracy and social justice. 'As history recounts, a disturbed Afghanistan has always been a source of regional instability, just as its stability has had a positive impact on the tranquillity of the region. 'It is expected that those concerned with peace in Afghanistan, especially our fraternal neighbouring countries, will be supportive of the ongoing political process in our homeland. 'The tenets of Islam guide us towards honesty, justice and mutual respect among members of the human community, irrespective of any form of prejudice. Islam calls upon all Islamic nations to serve the cause of the peace and security of mankind. 'The United Nations, as a source of hope for many suffering nations around the world, can play a decisive role in the return of peace to our shattered and war-stricken country. 'We are appreciative of the personal efforts of His Excellency the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the special mission under the leadership of His Excellency Mahmoud Mestiri. We also value the efforts of His Excellency Mr. Hamid Algabid, Secretary-General of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, for his continuous search to put an end to the conflict in Afghanistan. We wish them every success in coordinating their efforts with our national endeavours based upon realistic approaches. 'Let us hope that our future generations will recall the efforts of our friends and those interested in a stable and peaceful Afghanistan as the continuation of our just struggle for the cause of peace. 'Wishing the current session of the General Assembly every success, 'Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, 'President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan.' Let me begin my own statement by referring to the miseries being inflicted upon our people and country and by letting members of the Assembly know about some recent political developments in Afghanistan. Since the last session of the General Assembly three main political developments have taken place in our national efforts aimed at further consolidation of the political process and in the international action in favour of peace and stability in Afghanistan: First, the completion of the first two rounds and the beginning of a third round of peace efforts by the United Nations special mission to Afghanistan; Secondly, consideration of the situation in our country by the Security Council; Thirdly, major developments in the political process, highlighted by the convening in August 1994 of a Supreme Islamic Council in Herat and by its significant resolutions. Following the first round of its visit to Afghanistan the special mission submitted its report (A/49/208) to the Secretary-General. Before making some comments on that report, I wish first to express the gratitude of the Islamic State of Afghanistan to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his personal concern and the attention he continues to pay to Afghanistan. We assure him of our continued cooperation and support. I should also like to reaffirm the commitment of the Islamic State to support the special mission and to cooperate with it to enable it to discharge its mandate successfully. Here, I should like to draw the attention of the Assembly to some elements in the report that are of particularly importance. Paragraph 13 states that the mission found most of the country - at least two thirds of it - to be at peace. I would also draw attention to the 25 realistic conclusion of the mission in paragraph 31, which states, inter alia, that the 'mission believes that reconstruction assistance should not be seen as separate from but integral to a lasting political solution.' (A/49/208, para. 31) Emphasizing the interrelationship between political and economic activities to promote peace, the report says: 'Political and economic activity are interrelated and interconnected forces, which must be linked in Afghanistan in ways which encourage peace.' (Ibid.) We appreciate this positive assessment of the mission. In the light of the above conclusions of the United Nations mission as well as its recommendations, and based upon the critical need of the Afghan people for outside assistance, we believe the notion of peace first and reconstruction assistance second is no longer justifiable or plausible. The beginning of reconstruction assistance in those parts of the country where peace prevails will certainly encourage and persuade those who are illegally carrying arms to abandon their weapons for shovels and begin rebuilding their agriculture and farms. Since the beginning of the abortive coup of 1 January in Kabul, the United Nations Security Council has considered the situation in Afghanistan on three separate occasions. This consideration, which was in conformity with the Afghan nation’s expectations of the Security Council, was timely and appropriate. In its Presidential Statement dated 23 March 1994, 'The Council stress[ed] the importance that it attaches to full compliance with international humanitarian law in all its aspects and recall[ed] that those who violate international humanitarian law bear individual responsibility.' (S/PRST/1994/12) That Statement was just, positive and realistic. Recently, another Security Council Presidential Statement, dated 11 August 1994, was issued in reference to certain developments including the progress report of the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan and the recommendations therein. This Presidential Statement too contains some positive, important and realistic elements, in particular the fourth paragraph, wherein 'The Council calls on all States to take the necessary steps to promote peace in Afghanistan, to stop the flow of weapons to the parties, and to put an end to this destructive conflict.' (S/PRST/1994/43) The Statement also urges the international community to assist Afghans in rebuilding their shattered country. The Islamic State of Afghanistan expressed its appreciation to the Council for addressing an important aspect which is the core of the problem. However, we note with astonishment the reluctance on the part of the Council to condemn the aggressors, who continue to inflict inhuman atrocities on innocent civilian populations and continue to violate international humanitarian law. The Islamic State of Afghanistan once again states that the present crisis in the country is not a civil war but rather an imposed armed conflict fueled from abroad. The Security Council’s good intentions for Afghanistan can be realized only if the Council addresses the actual cause of the fighting. It should not limit itself to the mere issuance of statements, but should consider taking some specific enforcement measures. In this connection, it would be appropriate to refer to resolution 48/75 H, adopted at the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly on 16 December 1993, on measures to curb the illicit transfer and use of conventional weapons. The Assembly, considering the availability of massive quantities of conventional weapons as a contributing factor to armed conflicts around the world and recognizing the excessive quantity of conventional weapons in a number of countries as a source of destabilization of their national and regional security, invited Member States to take appropriate enforcement measures directed at ending the illegal export of these weapons from their territories. The continued illegal flow of conventional weapons to Afghanistan represents a violation of the provisions of resolution 48/75 H by some of our neighbouring countries. We hope that the report of the Secretary- General to the General Assembly at the current session, requested by that resolution, will suggest effective ways and means of stopping the illegal flow of these weapons and of collecting weapons illegally distributed in the country. 26 Now I should like to turn to the recent major political development which is a source of hope for bringing an end to the crisis in our country: At the beginning, it would not be inappropriate to draw the attention of this Assembly to the fact that the current situation in Afghanistan is a legacy of 14 years of protracted war stemming from the invasion unleashed by the former Soviet Union, as well as of a series of interferences in our internal affairs over the last two years. To eliminate the manifestations and effects of such a protracted war, which aimed at erasing all spiritual, historical and cultural values of Afghan society, is not feasible in a short period of time. Early last month on the initiative of the south and west zone of the country and its leader and general commander, General Mohammad Ismail Khan, a Supreme Islamic Council convened in the ancient city of Herat, with the participation of more than 700 delegates representing different strata of Afghan society, including governors and the main commanders of various provinces, religious scholars, tribal leaders, technocrats, intellectuals and other scholars, as well as 150 representatives of Afghans living abroad. That important gathering was also attended by the representative of the Office of the Secretary-General on Afghanistan and Pakistan as well as by a number of representatives of friendly countries. At the end, the Supreme Islamic Council adopted an eleven-point resolution. Due to the important contribution the realization of the objectives of the said resolution would have in the consolidation of peace and the political process in the country, I should like to take the liberty of shedding light on some of its most important points. Given the fact that on the basis of Islamic law and internationally accepted principles, the will of a nation is the source of national sovereignty, the Supreme Islamic Council decided: - To convene a traditional Grand National Assembly - Loya Jirgah - by the end of October 1994, in the capital, Kabul, in order to determine the future political leadership of the country; adopt and ratify the future constitution; and settle other important national issues yet pending; - To reject and condemn any Government created against the will of the nation and under the patronage of outsiders; - Strongly to condemn foreign interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, calling upon the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the United Nations to act resolutely to put an end to that interference on the basis of the provisions of their Charters; - To reaffirm the fact that Afghanistan is a distinct and indivisible political entity. The participating members of the Supreme Islamic Council in Herat committed themselves to standing firm against any rejection of this national accord. The full text of the Herat resolutions can be found in the official document of the Security Council (S/1994/943). It is gratifying to note that based upon those resolutions, a preparatory commission for the Grand Assembly convened on 30 August in Kabul and at its first meeting unanimously elected Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Muhammadi, the leader of the Herakat-Inqalabi Islami party, as its Chairman. Given the fact that the resolutions adopted in Herat marked a major new stage in the political evolution of our country, with the emphasis on the broad participation of Afghans, in that national gathering, and taking into consideration the effective role that the special mission of the United Nations could play in the acceleration of the peace process, it would be relevant to say a few words about the need to coordinate and merge these two series of efforts into components of a unified political process. Guided by its mandate, the United Nations Special Mission should try to find common ground with a view to ensuring a compromise approach that would lead to national rapprochement among Afghans. We are fully confident that Ambassador Mestiri will keep this in mind as the core of his mandate. If the Afghans, in keeping with their traditional way of solving problems, come together in a national gathering and adopt resolutions aimed at preserving the national sovereignty and territorial integrity and at realizing the right of the people to decide their own political future without foreign interference and involvement, the United Nations will be left as a neutral party with a complementary role. As an additional measure, the United Nations Special Mission could support an initiative that would avoid any loopholes and would ensure fairness and impartiality in the proceedings. Otherwise, attempts to create a parallel initiative will only produce further complication and aggravation of the situation and, consequently, 27 disappointment for our nation in the peacemaking efforts of the United Nations. I should like to make it clear that at no stage in its existence has Afghanistan constituted a source of threat to its neighbours. Nor has it allowed any third country to use it for the advancement of that country’s political differences with Afghanistan’s neighbours. We shall continue to act in this manner. Today, we yearn for peace more than for anything else, for only in an atmosphere of peace can we strive for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of our war-shattered country and heal the wounds and relieve the pain and suffering resulting from 14 years of war. We sincerely and seriously expect our neighbours to be supportive of our national efforts to these ends. In principle, the legitimate interests of States should be recognized and respected by their neighbours. However, if the expectation of a State, under the pretext of preserving its interests, violates the supreme interest of another State - namely, its national sovereignty and territorial integrity and the principle that the will of a nation should govern its destiny - this expectation becomes illegitimate. Not too long ago the world witnessed the former Soviet Union, as it pursued its activities in Afghanistan, crossing the boundary of legitimate interest. As a result, the Afghan nation, without regard for the disparity between the military means of the two sides, stood against one of the world’s mightiest military machines. After 10 years of imposed war and direct confrontation with the Red Army, the Afghan nation, with the help of the Almighty and the sacrifice of more than 1.5 million martyrs, proved once again that it would never allow foreign interference or accept dictates - in particular, that it would not permit outsiders to impose their will on Afghans. There is no longer a foreign army of occupation in Afghanistan, but the legacy of such a presence is still killing our people. Land-mines constitute the most toxic pollution facing mankind. Referred to as the hidden killers, these do not discriminate between adults and children. If there are 100 million of these deadly devices in 60 war- stricken countries throughout the world, at least one fifth of them are in Afghanistan. This cruel threat is a dreadful impediment to the return of the refugees. We need a great deal of help from the international community if we are to promote and finance land-mine awareness and clearance programmes. We appreciate highly President Clinton’s very important proposal, voiced here, concerning the need for international action to clear mines in the war-stricken countries of the world. No international effort in the war against poverty and in support of sustained growth and development will be effective if account if not taken of the continuing deterioration in the socio-economic situation of the least developed countries, identified as such by the United Nations system. Among these countries are those that experience frequent natural disasters and those ravaged by war. Specific action to deal with the particular needs and problems of land-locked developing countries - I refer in particular to assistance for the land-locked States of central Asia - is an important matter that requires discussion during this session of the General Assembly. Afghanistan, which is itself land-locked, is the country of transit for many central Asian States. Roads and highways in Afghanistan are damaged as a result of the long years of foreign armed aggression. For this reason we shall propose that the United Nations system assist our region by carrying out a corridor study - a study of the transit roads in Afghanistan, which is situated in the heart of Asia. Transit and transport agreements between the land- locked States members of the Economic Cooperation Organization, including Afghanistan, and Iran and Pakistan need to be concluded or updated to take account of the new circumstances and the legal and technical advice of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. The Islamic State of Afghanistan stands firm in support of human rights throughout the world but particularly in Afghanistan. Much to our regret, armed conflict between various groups has resulted in violations of human rights - especially of the right to life, which is humanity’s most fundamental right. To prevent such occurrences and to ensure security, the State is determined to collect the arms currently in the possession of certain groups. There has already been noticeable progress in this area. Most of the armed groups realize the need to end conflicts and to relinquish heavy armaments. The completion of this task can be ensured through strengthening of the national armed forces and the national police force. Significant steps will be taken towards this goal. As for civil, political, economic and cultural rights, the Islamic State of Afghanistan, in observance of Islamic 28 teaching and international responsibilities, acknowledges its duty to eliminate all discrimination and intolerance, whether religious, linguistic or based on gender. Afghanistan recognizes its Islamic responsibility to ensure the family, legal, cultural, social, political and economic rights of women. Apart from obligations of principle and morality, a country that lost 15 per cent of its population during the war cannot be completely successful in the enormous task of reconstruction without the active participation of its female population. Therefore, it is imperative that proper measures be taken to secure extensive participation by Afghan women in the process of rebuilding the nation’s economy, culture and society. In the midst of these conflicts, it is the children who suffer most. In Afghanistan alone there are almost 1 million war orphans. The situation of this precious and most vulnerable category of the population deserves particular attention. To this end, the Islamic State of Afghanistan will submit a proposal for consideration by the Assembly at its current session to establish an international fund within the framework of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) to assist the rehabilitation of orphans of armed conflicts. It would be worth considering a declaration of 1996 as the international year of orphans. We welcome the appointment of Graça Machel by the Secretary-General as an expert to carry out the mandate of the General Assembly to conduct a study of the consequences of armed conflicts on children. The Islamic State of Afghanistan, inspired by Islamic instructions, has no hesitation in taking a firm stand against terrorism in any shape or form. As we battle violence in our own land, we continue to add our voice to that of the international community in condemning terrorism the world over. At its last session the General Assembly discussed in some detail the plight of disabled people. However, the practical achievements do not seem to be adequate. From this rostrum I remind the world community again of the state of the nearly 2 million disabled persons in Afghanistan, victims of a war of aggression. We will submit proposals for securing international assistance for the world’s disabled population in order to alleviate their social, economic and psychological problems. One issue worth mentioning, with both regional and international implications, is that of narcotic drugs. The illicit cultivation, production, stocking, smuggling and trafficking of narcotic drugs are undeniably critical problems facing humanity today. Regrettably, one of the legacies of the long war in Afghanistan is the transformation of some parts of our country into staging areas for illicit drug activities. This phenomenon, which is partly the result of the unavailability of alternative productive economic activities, is a source of great concern to us. Afghanistan, despite its scarce resources, has taken serious measures in the struggle against illicit drugs. We will spare no effort to combat these illegal activities. However, we must not overlook the reality that Afghanistan, with its extremely limited means and massive economic and financial needs, is not in a position effectively to accomplish this task alone. Afghanistan needs urgent support from the international community to intensify the struggle against drug cultivation and trafficking. The ongoing internal conflict in Tajikistan, a fraternal neighbour of Afghanistan, is a matter of continued concern to us. We hope that the brotherly Tajik people, who are opening a new chapter in their history after the collapse of the former Soviet Union and their emergence as a new and independent nation, will soon succeed in overcoming their difficulties. One dimension of this internal conflict is the periodic disturbances occurring on the border between Afghanistan and Tajikistan. As a result of the conflict inside Tajikistan, more than 100,000 Tajik refugees have taken refuge inside Afghanistan. The Islamic State of Afghanistan, on the basis of deep feelings of Islamic brotherhood, humanitarian considerations and traditional Afghan hospitality, provided shelter to those refugees. The influx of the Tajik refugees to Afghanistan is due to the political circumstances in their own country. Therefore, only a political solution to the problems with which they are faced, with the Government of Tajikistan, will guarantee their voluntary repatriation to their homeland. The dispatch of armed forces of the Russian Federation to Tajikistan, especially on the border between Afghanistan and Tajikistan, would in our view further aggravate the problem rather than contribute to its solution. The Islamic State of Afghanistan has committed itself to supporting the peaceful initiative of the Secretary- General and his Special Envoy to Tajikistan, Ambassador Piriz-Ballon. As far as possible we have encouraged the 29 Tajik refugee leaders, in a spirit of conciliation, to help United Nations efforts to succeed by agreeing to a negotiated settlement. A chief factor in resolving the problem will be the Tajik Government’s heeding the just and legitimate demands of the Tajik opposition leaders. Afghanistan, in pursuit of its previous commitments, is desirous that its border with Tajikistan should be a border of peace, understanding and friendship. Once again we would like to declare that periodic clashes on the border between Afghanistan and Tajikistan are a manifestation of the internal conflict in Tajikistan, and not a single member of the Afghan armed forces is, or will be, involved in any border clashes. As everyone knows, in Bosnia and Herzegovina the odious and barbaric 'ethnic cleansing' practised by the Serbs of Bosnia re-emerged a few weeks ago in Banja Luka, Bijeljina and other areas. The Security Council has just demanded - in resolution 941 (1994) of 23 September - that the Bosnian Serb authorities immediately cease their campaign of 'ethnic cleansing'. This demand of the Security Council is bound to be disregarded and denied by the Bosnian Serb criminals. It is therefore imperative that the Security Council should decide to mandate a United Nations presence and coercive measures for the protection of the Bosnian communities threatened by further 'ethnic cleansing'. Otherwise, the United Nations and the five- Power Contact Group will lose all credibility. Another dangerous area calls for the immediate attention of the Organization if we want to save the whole region from catastrophe. The grave situation in Kosovo, aggravated by the daily massive repression committed by the Serbian authorities against 2 million ethnic Albanians, and referred to as a time-bomb, remains explosive. We also remind the Assembly of human rights violations in Sandjak. It is our view that a special United Nations mission should assess war damage resulting from the acts of armed aggression committed by the Bosnian Serbs. The aggressors must know that they will have to pay war reparations to those who are their victims. This will remind aggressors always to think twice before firing and destroying. On the basis of its common historical ties with the people of Jammu and Kashmir, especially common religious ties with its Muslim population, the Islamic State of Afghanistan is deeply concerned at the exacerbation of the situation in that territory. The sufferings of the Muslim people of Kashmir add to our grief. We continue to believe that the question of Kashmir, which has always been one of the prime concerns of the Muslim Umma, can find a lasting solution through peaceful means in an atmosphere of trust, understanding and good- neighbourliness between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Republic of India, a solution on the basis of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations and internationally accepted principles on the settlement of disputes. During these crucial moments of the history of the Palestinian people, we reiterate the responsibility of the international community to support the inalienable national rights of the Palestinians, including their right to return to their homeland, and the right to self-determination, encompassing the right to their own independent State on their national soil, with Al-Quds al-Sharif as its capital. The peace process has to be aimed at the full implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) guaranteeing the full withdrawal of occupying forces from all the occupied Palestinian territories. The Afghan nation, like other Islamic nations, considers the occupation of the site of one of the most sacred shrines of Islam, in Al-Quds, by authorities lacking awareness of its sacred Islamic character, as contempt for the most basic spiritual rights of the Islamic community all over the world. In conclusion, I wish to draw the attention of this world gathering to the fact that, as a result of heavy rocket attacks on Kabul by the opposition, as well as their blocking of the roads to Kabul, the capital has been without running water, electricity or heating for most of the time since last January. Also, a shortage of food supplies seems to be threatening the city’s most vulnerable inhabitants who are suffering. It has been predicted that the coming winter will be a harsh one. As the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) fears, a large-scale human disaster may be impossible to avert. We request the donor community to respond positively and urgently to the United Nations appeal for winter emergency assistance to the city of Kabul. Let me congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its forty- ninth session. This is both a tribute to his country’s contribution to the work of the Organization and an acknowledgement of his personal achievements in multilateral diplomacy. Almost half a century ago, the founding Member States — and my country is one of them — set for the United Nations a task of paramount importance: to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security and to promote the economic and social development of all nations. It was necessary to create a mechanism for coordinating states’ efforts that could offer mutually acceptable solutions to international problems. Experience has shown that the United Nations can play the part of such a unique mechanism. Thanks to the great efforts of this prestigious international Organization, we have managed to avoid military flare-ups and conflicts in many parts of the world. The world has changed dramatically. The political, ideological and military confrontation of two social systems has become a thing of the past. The ice of the cold war has melted away completely. These changes brought to the world hopes for a better future but, unfortunately, have failed to solve all international problems. Tragedies whose underlying cause is ethnic, religious and national enmity are being played out in Rwanda, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Nagorny Karabakh, Abkhazia and Tajikistan. Unsettled bilateral relations between some States, including those relating to the areas of human rights and protection of national minorities, are also factors. And there is also terrorism, drug-trafficking and uncontrolled arms exports, including arms supplies into areas of conflict and hot spots in countries where bloodshed continues. Under these circumstances, the role of the United Nations as a universally recognized uniter of peoples becomes much more significant. I am deeply convinced that there will come a time when the collective reason of the United Nations will have a much greater impact on the processes taking place in the world. Our duty is to do everything we can to achieve that. Here in the United Nations, we have to find the answers to many questions of concern to our countries. For Belarus, this is especially important. For four years now Belarus has been building a democratic, independent and sovereign State. Our ideal is one of a free citizen in a free country. After decades of totalitarianism and sham collectivism, we are gradually giving back to our people freedom, which the great humanist Leonardo da Vinci called the main gift of nature. One significant milestone in the life of Belarus was the adoption of a new Constitution and — a historic first for us — truly free and democratic presidential elections. Henceforth Belarus has a President elected by the people, Alaksandr Lukashenka, who has testified to his basic commitment to progressive market reforms. Presidential power and the trust of the people guarantee that democratic reforms in our country will be irreversible. And today we also have regular elections to the Belarus Parliament and for local authorities. In foreign policy, the Republic of Belarus believes in the principles of sovereign equality of states, non-use of force or the threat of force, inviolability of borders, peaceful settlement of disputes, non-interference in internal affairs and other universally recognized norms of international law. Our Constitution contains a provision that Belarus should be a neutral State and its territory a nuclear-free zone. Our Republic is ready to cooperate with the whole world and is seeking its rightful place in Europe in the regional structures of collective security and economic cooperation. The President and the Government of the Republic of Belarus believe that implementation of market reforms will guarantee success in the democratic transformations in our society. We have embarked on this path firmly and irreversibly. The legal and organizational bases for moving to the socially oriented market economy have now been created in the Republic. Appropriate legislation has been enacted. The ideas of having a state of law, dividing power into different branches and improving the 23 system of executive authority are now being put into practice. However, as in other countries of Central and Eastern Europe, transition to a market economy is very difficult. Our greatest difficulties occur in privatization, fighting monopolies and stabilizing the monetary-financial system. Moreover, we inherited from the past a national economic structure in which an excessively large share was given to the military-industrial complex. Internal and external national debt is also high, leading to budget deficits and inflation. The situation is aggravated by the long-term consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. The adverse effect of the unprecedented radioactive contamination on people’s health is not decreasing. On the contrary, it increases as this tragic day recedes. On top of all of this, we had a drought this year the likes of which our country had not seen for at least 100 years. Modest estimates put the overall damage from the drought at more than $300 million. Under these difficult circumstances, the Republic has elaborated a programme of measures for pulling the economy out of crisis. This programme will be the basis for an agreement with the International Monetary Fund, which we plan to sign sometime next month. Firmly resolved to carry out wide-scale reforms, we intend to curb inflation, reduce the budget deficit and reduce the deficit in the balance of payments. Full liberalization of trade and prices, speeding up privatization, should, we think, make it possible to lessen the crisis in our economy. Relying on our own forces, we nevertheless understand that without support from the outside we cannot carry out our reforms fully and in a reasonably short time. The Republic of Belarus does not intend to withdraw into its own problems. We are open to the concerns, anxieties and problems of the whole world, and we wish to make our own contribution to the activities of the world community of nations. Not just rhetorically, but in reality, Belarus was the first State in history voluntarily, without reservations or conditions, to renounce the possession of nuclear weapons. We support proposals on the indefinite and unconditional extension of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. In 1990, from this rostrum, the delegation of the Republic of Belarus put forward the idea of establishing a nuclear-free belt from the Baltic to the Black Sea. Recent steps taken by Belarus to withdraw nuclear weapons from its territory ahead of schedule make it possible to consider a substantial part of this region as nuclear-free territory already. Belarus supports the efforts by Members of the United Nations to speed up the negotiations on concluding a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. We believe such a treaty could be signed as early as next year. We also support the proposal made here to elaborate a treaty on nuclear security and strategic stability. And, of course, we advocate multilateral discussion of issues relating to regulating the international arms market and military equipment. I would like to stress that, despite our economic crisis, our Republic is endeavouring to comply fully with our obligations to reduce nuclear and conventional weapons, even though this requires enormous additional expenditures. In this connection, we feel we can expect the international community to support our actions. The noble quest of peoples for peace following the Second World War led to the establishment of the United Nations. The people of Belarus paid a great price in delivering of world from fascism. The deadly fires of war scorched our land and touched literally every family in it. The tragic price of freedom was the life of every fourth citizen in my country. Not until 25 years after the war did our population once again attain its pre-war level. Thus, the General Assembly’s decision to make 1995 the United Nations year of tolerance and to proclaim it the world year of commemoration of victims of the Second World War evokes a particularly profound response in Belarus. The Belarus delegation also considers that next year would be the appropriate time to delete from the United Nations Charter the outdated concept of the “enemy State”. We must use the forthcoming United Nations golden jubilee to seek new ways of improving our performance in the changed world conditions. It is a truism that nature cannot tolerate rigidity and that everything in nature is constantly changing. That law is certainly applicable to the United Nations. If the Organization is to work effectively, its major organs must undergo profound reform. In the application of the principle of representation of countries and regions in the Security Council, the interests of all groups of States, including the Eastern European Group, must be taken more fully into account. Of course, no Security Council reform should detract 24 from its role as the body responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, so needed by all Member States, and particularly the smaller States. The Government of the Republic of Belarus has reacted positively to the proposal to increase the number of permanent members of the Security Council with the addition of members selected from among the countries that make an exceptional contribution to achieving the purposes of the United Nations Charter. We believe that greater account should be taken of existing realities, including the complex problems confronting countries whose economies are in transition and the poorest countries, as well as of global problems of population, unemployment and environmental deterioration in all parts of the world. Political and economic dialogue between donor and recipient countries must be given new content, going beyond the traditional framework of relations between them. The Republic of Belarus hopes that the movement that began in the Philippines at the International Conference of New or Restored Democracies and developed further at Managua will make it possible for countries in transition and developing countries to unite and to develop a coordinated approach within the framework of the United Nations to consolidate democracy and create a free market. Countries with economies in transition find themselves at different stages on their road to democracy and a market economy, and for that reason the success of reforms depends to a large extent on support from the international community. Hence, the Belarus delegation would propose that in 1996, under the auspices of the United Nations, an international conference on sustainable development in countries with economies in transition should be held. Co- organizers of the conference might include the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, the European Regional Bureau of the United Nations Environment Programme, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other interested institutions. We also believe that the granting of most-favoured- nation status, giving countries with economies in transition broad access to international markets and integrating them fully into the world economy, would be in the interests of the international community as a whole. There is a growing need to broaden cooperation and strengthen coordination between the United Nations, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and other regional organizations and arrangements. In this connection we welcome the granting of observer status in the General Assembly to the Commonwealth of Independent States. Belarus advocates a clearer definition of areas of cooperation between the United Nations and the CIS. Such cooperation could include joint efforts in peacemaking, disarmament, the environment, anti- terrorism, drug control and industrial conversion. We believe that peace-keeping operations should not be allowed to overshadow the crucial problems of socio- economic development. Administrative and financial reform must become the most important aspect of United Nations renewal. One way of achieving that would be through a more rational distribution of the financial burden between the United Nations and other international institutions, including regional organizations. Another way would be to reject existing approaches to calculating the scale of assessments of Member States for the regular budget of the United Nations and for peace-keeping operations. It would be fairer to assess the contributions of States primarily in light of their actual capacity to pay. In conclusion, may I say that the general debate at this session attests to the genuine interest of Member States in achieving the full realization of the United Nations potential as a truly effective international organization, as a centre for harmonizing and coordinating the activities of the nations of the world. The Republic of Belarus fully shares that commitment and is ready to cooperate with all countries of the world community to achieve that goal, so that the end of this century may go down in history as the time when the aspirations and hopes of all mankind were finally met. Allow me at the outset to congratulate the President of the General Assembly on his unanimous election. It is indeed a great 21 honour for his country. I can assure him of my delegation’s willingness to assist him in his duties. Let me also congratulate His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana on the exemplary manner in which he carried out his duties. His innovative use of expert hearings on the question of development were followed closely by the Marshall Islands delegation. My compliments are also extended to our distinguished Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whom we thank for his tireless efforts on behalf of this Organization. On a more sombre note, I wish to extend the condolences of my Government, delegation and people to our neighbours in the Pacific, Papua New Guinea and Japan, which have both recently experienced devastating volcanic eruptions. Our prayers go out to the peoples of both countries in the hope that they will be able to make a speedy recovery. Further grim descriptions and graphic pictures of the terrible loss of life on the high seas in the sinking of the 'Estonia' have been occupying the air waves and television screen. We should like to express our deepest sympathy and condolences to the affected families and Governments over this tragic accident. We now wish to join other delegations in welcoming South Africa to this Organization. The struggle of its people with racial inequality resulting from apartheid was long and difficult, often resulting in the loss of precious lives. We share their excitement in finally joining the concert of nations. We also wish to congratulate our neighbour the Republic of Palau on attaining its independence on 1 October this year. The aftermath of the cold war has made it necessary for the United Nations to take on many challenges. The Organization itself has become involved in several ambitious undertakings in innovative international relations and multilateral actions. We hope that these new endeavours of partnership will produce lasting solutions to many of our global problems. That very partnership is evident by the work being undertaken on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is viewed with great interest in the Marshall Islands. Currently, we are working together with the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), of which we are a founding member, in introducing a new protocol to the Convention. We commend the Chairman of the Alliance of Small Island States for her coordinating work in the International Negotiating Committee. In addition, we welcome the urgent call made by the German Foreign Minister for more immediate reductions in carbon dioxide emissions. The German Government’s support for the AOSIS protocol is most gratifying. We hope that the Conference of the Parties will adopt the proposed protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change on Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction next year in Berlin. As an island nation, the Republic of the Marshall Islands regarded the adoption by the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session, earlier this year, of the Agreement relating to the Implementation of Part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea as historic and of great importance. We view this Agreement as a positive step in bringing order to the exploitation of marine resources. In this vein I am happy to announce that we will sign that Agreement at this session. We are also happy to note the imminent entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, in November this year. In the months leading up to the Barbados Conference last April, we were very confident that at last the international community would try to do something positive for the small island developing States, a group of countries that we feel has been neglected. We are pleased that we now have a Programme of Action, and we will do our utmost to seek its successful implementation to enhance our island economic development. As a country with one of the highest population growth rates in the world, the Republic of the Marshall Islands has followed with great interest the International Conference on Population and Development. It was a shame that this process was nearly derailed by semantic disagreements. Fortunately, the Conference, in Cairo, after arduous and intensive negotiations, saw fit to adopt an expanded international population strategy, as a result of which we now have a well-thought-out Plan of Action. It is of concern to us that so much of the cost involved in the implementation of the Plan of Action will be borne by individual countries. We will, however, make every effort to maximize our participation in this Plan of Action. 22 The United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks recently completed its third round of discussions here in New York. We all owe a great deal to its distinguished Chairman for his masterful stewardship. For the Marshall Islands, this Conference is particularly important as we seek to build our capacity to utilize our marine resources responsibly. Unlike distant-water fishing nations, our geographical location compels us to ensure the sustainable exploitation of our fisheries resources for future generations, whether within or outside our exclusive economic zone. This is a matter of survival, one that transcends economics. I submit, however, that large-scale commercial fisheries are a new concept for our people. That being so, we are interested in modern methodologies for the commercial exploitation of fisheries resources. We must familiarize ourselves with them. In this regard, the active assistance of the developed countries is needed to train our people in the modern techniques of commercial fishing. In this context, it is essential that we gain preferential access to international markets. We have brought this matter up many times, and we urge the Assembly to promote trade as well as training. While we are not asking for much, we do hope that assistance for self-help will continue to be forthcoming. The development of human resources is probably the most important factor in improving the economic situation in the Marshall Islands. We are grateful to New Zealand and to the current Chairman of the South Pacific Forum - Australia - for their efforts in this field. We encourage others to follow their example. Thus, together with other Forum countries, we will aspire to develop a strategy that will prepare the way for the World Summit for Social Development. We recognize that further improvement of our relationships with the various United Nations agencies in our region is essential. Furthermore, because of their increased responsibilities and workloads, we would encourage an increase in the number of representatives of the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, the United Nations Children’s Fund and the United Nations Development Programme in the region, and we would also support an increase in their funding. I also wish to associate myself with my colleagues from the region regarding the application by the South Pacific Forum for observer status at the United Nations. I urge the General Assembly to seriously consider this request, as it would be of great value to our region inasmuch as it would strengthen our ties to the United Nations. Of equal importance is the World Conference on Women in Beijing next year. As a matrilineal society, we have long recognized the wisdom of including women in our decision-making process, and we look forward to participating in the Beijing Conference. During the World Hearings on Development earlier this year, many of the expert witnesses spoke of the high proportion of United Nations expenditures earmarked for peace-keeping, much to the detriment of overall development efforts. This is a matter of ongoing concern to the Marshall Islands as well as to several other small countries. We feel that the sheer number and cost of these operations are getting out of hand. The preservation of global peace is of the utmost importance, but in relative terms the costs that fall on smaller developing States is very large. The Marshall Islands will actively participate in this matter in the Fifth Committee, and we hope to work together with others for a more equitable apportionment of expenses and assessed contributions. We are fully supportive of the views put forward by the President of Latvia regarding the concept of the 'capacity to pay'. The people of the Marshall Islands regard with abhorrence the numerous human rights abuses that are occurring around the world. We shall be very vigilant in the discussions following on the Vienna Declaration on this matter. We believe there is no statute of limitations to human rights abuses, as clearly they are crimes against humanity. The prevalent lack of common decency, which the President of Bosnia and Herzegovina so painfully described in his recent address, must be eradicated. We note that His Excellency President Boris Yeltsin of the Russian Federation stated that the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations should also commemorate the victims of the Second World War. My delegation fully supports this concept, particularly since the fate of many Pacific Island people during the Second World War remains an unwritten chapter in the history books. For example, the atrocities carried out against the people of Mili Atoll in the Marshall Islands have not been fully addressed. We trust that moral restitution will be made to the memory of these victims. The consequences of recent geo-political events have amply demonstrated the need for the expansion of the Security Council. With 184 Members, the United Nations must ensure that the Security Council reflects the realities of the changed situation. My delegation supports the proposal for increased membership. Moreover, there is an acute need for increased transparency in the work of the Council. In this context, it is appalling to note that the Security Council, whose decisions affect all Members, does not involve more States in its decision-making process. As a positive remedial solution, the suggestion by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of New Zealand in this regard is of great significance and should be considered. I should like to remind the members of the General Assembly of the continued presence in the Marshall Islands of dangerous residual radioactive contaminants from United States nuclear- weapons-testing programmes. Members will no doubt recall that it was during the relatively brief period of the United Nations-approved trusteeship that 67 atomic bombs were detonated on islands that had been inhabited peacefully and productively by the people of the Marshall Islands for centuries. This must be regarded as a matter of more than historical interest, in view of the resulting legacy of horrific environmental degradation and tragic human suffering - a legacy that threatens to haunt the Marshallese people for centuries to come. Documents recently declassified and released confirm that the full extent of the radioactive contamination resulting from these tests was not disclosed to the Marshall Islands by the United States during the negotiation of the Compact of Free Association. Accordingly, neither the compensation provided nor the remedial measures undertaken or contemplated for the clean-up of some of the contaminated islands and the treatment of the affected human population can now be regarded as adequate. My Government lacks the huge sums required to ensure the proper clean-up and disposal of the radioactive contaminants and the treatment of the radiation-induced illnesses and birth defects caused by the nuclear-weapons tests. Notably, the containment facility that was established for the radioactive materials gathered from some contaminated areas is wholly unsatisfactory by any reasonable environmental standard. What, then, is my Government to do? We may hope for the unreserved cooperation of the former administering Power in fully cleaning up and disposing of its nuclear waste and in adequately aiding our afflicted people. However, as a country that every day continues to suffer the consequences of the failure by that Power to meet its obligations, we must look to such alternatives as we may find. In short, we must do more than simply hope. It is with this unhappy dilemma in mind that we ask the General Assembly to consider sympathetically our efforts to attend to the restoration of our lands and the treatment of our people. The clean-up and disposal of nuclear contamination in the Marshall Islands will require very large sums of money indeed. The effective disposal of those contaminants will require their permanent isolation from the human biosphere. An international facility on a remote, uninhabited atoll of the Marshall Islands for the safe, permanent disposal of nuclear materials would, if technically feasible and politically acceptable, meet these requirements. My Government wishes it to be understood that such a facility would also serve the global interest in securing the safe and permanent disposal of a portion of the world’s dangerous nuclear materials, an interest that, at present, is by no means accommodated anywhere in the world. Consequently, my Government has resolved to conduct a preliminary feasibility study for such a facility and to consult closely with interested members of the international community as we proceed. In this regard, I wish to commend the remarks made by the Foreign Minister of Norway in calling on the International Atomic Energy Agency to convene an international conference on the management of nuclear wastes. We look forward with interest to such a conference, and we pledge our support. My Government recognizes that the establishment of a nuclear materials disposal facility in the Marshall Islands may upon detailed analysis be found to be unfeasible or otherwise unacceptable. In that event, my Government will look to the Members of this Organization for their support in the effort to secure the complete removal from the Marshall Islands of all residual radioactive contaminants and of the existing storage facility. We expect that the party responsible for the radioactive contamination of the Marshall Islands will provide the funds and the technical means required to effect this removal promptly and completely, as well as to ensure the restoration of all the affected islands to their full economic viability. We expect that this Organization, which placed our islands under trusteeship in the first place, will ensure that justice prevails. At this time, my Government requests the sympathetic support of the General Assembly as we 24 continue with the effort to secure a commitment to adequate treatment and full compensation of all the victims of the nuclear-weapons-testing programme. My Government attaches the utmost importance and immediate urgency to this matter. The issues I have mentioned are of high priority. It is my sincere hope that when we gather together next year, our efforts will indeed have yielded concrete results, visible and meaningful to our peoples. To accept anything less would be a disappointment. I wish first to extend to Foreign Minister Essy and the people of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire congratulations on his election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I pledge to him my delegation’s full support as he carries out the weighty responsibilities of his office. In welcoming him and wishing him well in his stewardship of the momentous work of this Assembly, I recall that he replaces in this important office a son of my own subregion, the Caribbean. Ambassador Rudy Insanally of Guyana served the presidency of the General Assembly with distinction, and I thank him for demonstrating the ability and talent of the Caribbean people. The Caribbean people, their aspirations in the global community and the place of the United Nations in their consideration are at the heart of the presentation that I will make here today. Thirteen years ago my country was admitted to this body as an independent Member State. As Foreign Minister at that time, I said to this Assembly: “I represent a people living in the reality of underdevelopment. I am before you as a representative of the wretchedness that is the residue of colonialism, a wretchedness which includes unemployment and underemployment, inadequate housing and insufficient medical facilities. “And yet, despite our condition, my people are part of mankind’s universal relationship; by our very existence we are intertwined in the destiny of all humanity. In that sense, regardless of the wealth of some men, mankind will never be rich while we remain disinherited. dislocated and disenchanted.” (A/36/PV.53, pp. 22 and 23-25) Since I spoke those words in this Assembly, there has been little action by the developed nations to help alter these conditions in my country. Indeed, they have done little in the Caribbean as a whole. If anything, the terms of our involvement in international economic relations have worsened as prices for our commodities have decreased, the costs of our imports have increased and our access to preferential markets has diminished. At the same time, our calls on the conscience of the rich countries to be mindful of the conditions that fracture the economic and political structures of our society seem to fall upon deaf ears. This body knows well that the targets set within the United Nations itself for official development assistance are met by only a handful of nations. Today the Caribbean subregion occupies the attention of the international community because of events in Haiti. Eleven years ago it was events in Grenada that catapulted the Caribbean into the consciousness of global concern. In both cases what drove our subregion onto the agenda of international deliberation was not a remedy for the conditions that precipitated crises in these countries, but a desire by some to curtail a threat to security interests — security interests that were defined, in large measure, by their own domestic considerations. It seems that unless the Caribbean is perceived to pose a threat to larger and more powerful States, we remain no more than, on the one hand, picture postcards of white sand beaches and swaying coconut trees, an idyllic playground for tourists, and, on the other, a forgotten backwater of human and economic underdevelopment as represented by the world-wide television pictures of today’s Haiti. Year in, year out, the underlying problems that afflict our economic and human condition and that lend themselves to the crises that we witnessed 11 years ago in Grenada and are witnessing today in Haiti go unnoticed and unattended. Yet in eight months’ time we will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the United Nations Charter, a Charter that proclaimed that we are determined “to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small, and ... to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom.” But can this body truly say that in almost 50 years it has overseen the promotion of social progress and better standards of life of nations large and small? Between 1980 and 1988 real gross domestic product per person in Latin America and the Caribbean steadily fell by an annual average of 0.9 percent. In some States real income dropped by as much as one quarter during the 1980s. With very few exceptions, most countries now have per capita gross domestic products lower than those of a decade or even two decades earlier. Despite this decline in real gross domestic product, many countries in our region are forced to repay debt that is wrapped tightly around their necks, strangling their efforts to breathe life into their economies. Mark you, this is debt that they have repaid many times over if the onerous interest rates are discounted. Yet they are able to see little reduction in the sum of the debt. In the meantime, the massive haemorrhage of foreign exchange 15 occasioned by this intractable debt burden seriously hampers the long-term social and economic prospects for some of our States. For example, debt servicing in the case of Jamaica is between 14 per cent and 16 per cent of export earnings; a recent World Bank report suggests that 70 per cent of Government revenue in Guyana will be consumed this year by debt servicing repayments while as much as 43 per cent of the population lives in poverty. In my own country’s case, debt has been incurred by the Government acting as a catalyst for economic development in the absence of sufficient official development assistance or private investment flows despite generous incentives. Our arrears have been rising even with debt repayment and now amount to more than $200 million. This burden of debt upon small countries calls for a change in the rules of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank to allow for the forgiveness of debt. It also urges a relaxation by Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries in particular of their position on bilateral debt. If our countries are to maintain political stability and promote economic progress, we need relief from the great burden that debt places upon us. It is significant that, as the IMF and World Bank mark the fiftieth anniversary of their establishment this week, private aid agencies, led by the Oxford Committee for Famine Relief (Oxfam), have accused them of undermining the relief of poverty, of making people poorer and giving short-term economic aims, such as the reduction of inflation, higher priority than the reduction of poverty. Only a few would today deny the need for drastic reform or the dismantling of State bureaucracies in favour of private investment and more open economies, but the structural adjustment which this entails should do more than pay lip-service to the challenges of providing better education and health facilities in developing countries. The multilateral financial institutions, and the major Powers which control them, must become less ideologically inflexible and more alert to the deleterious effect of some of their policies on poor States. It is a startlingly telling measure of the wide divergence of views between developed and developing countries that this week developing countries rejected out of hand a proposal by major Powers in the IMF on ways to increase world monetary reserves. There is an urgent need for urgent, meaningful and sincere dialogue between representatives of the rich and poor nations to bridge this gap in consultation and consensus-building. If such a dialogue does not begin, and begin soon, we may well witness a stand-off in relations that will paralyse economic cooperation and progress on a global scale. I urge that within the institutions of the Organization itself — specifically within the Economic and Social Council and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) — such a dialogue should begin with the resolve of reaching a practical programme on which both rich and poor have agreed. If the Organization and its Member States fails to act to promote such a dialogue I fear that it will reinforce the view that the United Nations is captive to the dictates of the rich, and powerless to respond to the needs of the poor. We in the developing countries of the Caribbean urgently need to develop our human stock and to widen the space of economic opportunity; to provide more of our young people with better education; to provide facilities that will keep our populations healthy and productive; to provide incomes that will encourage our people to save and to convert such savings into low- interest loans for productive enterprise; and to concentrate on exports and undertakings such as tourism to earn foreign exchange. If we are to tackle this task effectively, the yoke of debt in particular must be eased from our backs. It is not beyond the international community to set standards to achieve both repayment of debt and an easing of the burden of such repayment. To do so, two standards should be set. The first is on the extent of forgiveness of existing debt. Debt forgiveness should be a minimum of 50 per cent of existing debt, the original principal of which, as I pointed out earlier, has long been repaid. Forgiveness of 50 per cent of debt is the only figure that makes any sense. A lower percentage would simply make realistic repayment unachievable unless we were to impoverish our countries even further. Secondly, the international community should also establish a standard to set a fixed percentage of export revenue for the repayment of debt. Without a standard, indebted countries will face the prospect of worsening 16 poverty for decades to come. We should recall that the precedent of debt forgiveness was set by two members of the Security Council, Britain and the United States. In 1946 the terms of a large United States loan to war-torn Britain stipulated that interest should be waived altogether should such interest exceed 2 per cent of British export revenues in any given year. That standard helped Britain to survive. We ask for no more. Worsening poverty has grave implications for development and democracy in our region — implications which, in the long term, may cost the multilateral financial institutions and their wealthier members more than the debt they could forgive, or cause to be forgiven, in the short term. Among these implications is the problem of refugees. We should recall that apart from large-scale violence, difficult economic circumstances are what creates refugees. Refugees are not only those people who clamber on board boats and take to the open sea hoping to reach an accommodating shore where economic conditions are better. They are also people, many highly qualified, who reluctantly leave their homelands, illegally settling in other countries in search of jobs and better living conditions. The migration of such people causes problems both for the countries from which they move and the countries which receive them. In the case of the receiving countries, increasing numbers lead to destabilizing immigration pressures, particularly in inner cities. For the sending countries vital skills are lost, skills that could contribute to the social and economic development of the sending countries. Even at its summit meeting in January 1992, the Security Council acknowledged that threats to international peace and security can come from “non-military sources of instability in the economic, social, humanitarian and ecological fields”. (S/23500, p.3) In this regard, preventive measures need to be taken by the international community, led by this Organization, to mitigate root causes of emigration. Among such preventive measures must be action to guarantee stability in developing countries. We in Latin America and the Caribbean are not simply sitting on our hands in the expectation that our fortunes will somehow be dramatically altered by a sudden change of heart on the part of the richer States of the world. Within the Caribbean subregion, the member States of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) are working at deepening our integration arrangements to explore ways in which we can strengthen our economies by our own efforts. The measures we have adopted, such as a common external tariff and open markets, have been difficult for some of us in the short term, but we have taken the medicine, bitter though it is, in the expectation that in the medium to long term we will have created a stronger subregional economy, one capable of sustaining us all. We have also looked beyond the insular Caribbean to the wider Caribbean, including every country of the littoral. I am proud to say that on 24 July this year, 25 States of the Latin America and the Caribbean region established the Association of Caribbean States (ACS). Its objectives are economic integration and the creation of an enhanced space for free trade and cooperation among the countries of the Caribbean. We expect that one of the major benefits of the ACS will be the promotion of the interests of our grouping in international economic and trade forums. These actions, which we ourselves are taking, are part of the set of preventive measures to guarantee stability in our region. It is a tribute to the commitment of the people of the Caribbean to the processes of democracy that we have not witnessed greater upheaval and that in 11 years the United Nations has had only two new crises from our subregion with which to deal. The international community should not assume, however, that the crisis in Haiti arose only from internal factors. Much of its genesis resides in the attitude of major international actors motivated by their own domestic concerns. Haiti’s independence in 1804, born of the uprising of black slaves against the colonial Power, caused it to be ostracized from the world community. When Toussaint Louverture led his successful revolt, Haiti was the richest colony in the world, producing more and trading more with Europe and the United States than the rest of the Caribbean colonies combined. But the hostile international environment in which it was born reduced it from the richest colony in the world to the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere. The price for its limited participation in international trade was an agreement in 1825 to pay its former colonial master an indemnity of 150 million gold francs in six annual instalments. As the respected historian and former 17 Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago, Mr. Eric Williams, put it, “Thus was imposed on the infant independent State a heavy financial burden which effectively crippled development of its social services.” Since then, international actors have continued to influence events in Haiti, accommodating in their own interests dictatorial regimes and military Governments and ignoring the country’s growing poverty and the utter disregard for human rights. Is it any wonder that Haitians risked their lives in the most dangerous conditions on the open sea to become refugees? In this context, let me digress for a moment to take the opportunity to call upon the United States and Cuba to open a dialogue to end the impasse that has characterized their relationship for the past 30 years, threatening the stability of Latin America and the Caribbean. Recently those two countries demonstrated in this very city their capacity to sit at the table of peace and negotiate an agreement to end the movement of so-called refugees from Cuba to the United States. Surely the capacity to reach such an agreement shows that other agreements are possible. The willingness of the United States and Cuba to act now in their own interest would avert not only the continued hardship the Cuban people endure, but would eliminate any perception of threats to their individual security and the security of our region as a whole. My small country agreed to provide a safe haven for Haitian refugees, just as we agreed to contribute one eighth of our small military force to the multinational expedition authorized by Security Council resolution 940 (1994). We did so out of genuine concern for the lives of many thousands of Haitian people. We did so because we wanted to see an end to their suffering. We did so because we wanted to stamp out the cancer of dictatorship and human rights abuse in our subregion. As it turned out, our motivation to bring order and justice to Haiti coincided with the motivation of others who have the resources to commit to the military undertaking, which became imperative after diplomatic efforts, especially by representatives of the United Nations itself, had been fully exhausted. But while Antigua and Barbuda supports the objectives of Security Council resolution 940 (1994) and the use of force contemplated in it to remove the Cédras regime in Haiti, I am still troubled by the increasing resort to Chapter VII of the Charter as a basis for acting to end conflicts within a State. Since the end of the cold war the Security Council has had to invoke Chapter VII, which provides for “Action with respect to threats to the peace, breaches of the peace, and acts of aggression”, in relation to Iraq, Liberia, Somalia, the former Yugoslavia and, now, Haiti. In each of the countries where the Security Council took action, there was clearly a need for humanitarian intervention. My Government supports the growing body of opinion that holds that the international community must not remain a passive spectator when Governments massacre their own people or cause them to starve. In such cases the United Nations must act, and should be allowed to do so under the Charter, without having to resort to Chapter VII. Therefore, it is my view that the nations of the world should amend the Charter of the Organization to confer power on the United Nations to intervene in cases where humanitarian intervention is warranted. But in doing so they absolutely must balance safeguarding human rights with protecting a State’s right to autonomy. We must all be mindful that respect for State sovereignty is a fundamental cornerstone of the international legal order. Intervention for humanitarian purposes must not be capable of use for violating the sovereignty of States in pursuit of the interests of any member of the Security Council. As co-Chairman of the Commission on Universal Governance, Sir Shridath Ramphal said recently: “An activist United Nations will not long survive as a legitimate andeffective actor if it is used simply as a cover for the intervention of major Powers. Intervention should follow principled criteria and should be consistent and even-handed. Above all, intervention should not be unduly influenced, much less determined, by the interests or domestic political agendas of powerful nations acting within a region or globally.” In this connection, and particularly if we pursue the notion of amending the Charter to provide for United Nations-authorized humanitarian intervention, the membership of the Security Council itself must be revisited to change the anachronistic nature of the Council and make it more representative of the nations of the world. No State or group of States can proclaim the overarching importance of democracy, nor can any nation or group of States claim to intervene in another State in 18 the interest of upholding democracy, if that nation or group of States is unwilling to democratize the Security Council itself. The time has come to move away from the anachronism of five permanent members and to establish arrangements which are capable of change with the passage of time and the evolution of events. The time has come for equity for all nations — large and small — in the membership of the Council. I return now to the point at which I started — the role that the United Nations has played in the almost 50 years since the Charter was signed “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”. For much of its existence the Organization was hampered by the cold war and the struggle for supremacy between the major Powers. Witnessing events and responding to them through this prism of cold-war rivalry, the United Nations has not been as effective as it could have been in defining a world, strong in the pursuit of order and justice, where States could live in peace and the rule of law would replace the law of the jungle. During the greater part of the life of the United Nations, the strong have dictated to the feeble, the big to the small, the mighty to the weak. While there has been order, it has been without justice and without equity. In this context, while the United Nations has been a symbol of hope for people from small countries such as mine, much remains for it to do before it can represent to them an organization which champions their dignity and worth as human beings, which upholds the rights of their small nations, which promotes their social progress and better standards of life. As the United Nations approaches its fiftieth anniversary no longer shackled by the cold-war rivalry of the major Powers as it looks to the future, it has an extraordinary opportunity to fulfil the aspirations of the Charter which have so long remained mere words. In doing so, it can advance the interests of all mankind by providing a meaningful forum for genuine dialogue between the rich and poor for the establishment of conditions for development, and thus, for peace. As the Secretary-General has himself pointed out: “It must be remembered that the sources of conflict and war are pervasive and deep. Political stability is not an end in itself; it is a prerequisite for economic and social development. The inseparable links between peace and development must be acknowledged and fully understood because the deterioration of economic and social conditions can give root to divisive political strife and military conflict.” The end of the cold war should encourage a reformed, refreshed and representative Security Council to look beyond conventional security to security born of political stability and economic progress for all nations — large and small. My own small country is willing to do its part. It is my hope that the larger, richer and more powerful States Members of this Organization can recognize the need — and act on it — to apply democratic principles to their relations with poor States by contributing to the creation of a world free from the threat of military and economic pressure, a world strong in the pursuit of equity and justice for all, a world in which the United Nations is cast in a pivotal role as a powerful mediator for good in the interest of all mankind. May I begin by warmly congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the United Nations General Assembly. I would also like to express my appreciation to your predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, and to thank him for his contribution to accomplishing the tasks of the last session. Further, I wish to express our gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the vision with which he has guided the Organization and for his tireless efforts to ensure the maintenance of international peace and security. The collapse of the old order and the emergence of new democracies in Central and Eastern Europe and, soon after, in the former Soviet Union have presented the world with a major challenge. In a period of tremendous change, many difficulties and conflicts have arisen. Some of these difficulties come as immediate by-products of rapid and haphazard transformations, while others are surfacing for the first time after decades of inadequate stop-gap measures. Further, if the reform programmes have so far failed to yield all the benefits expected, this is also due to an under-estimation of the differences in the initial conditions of the countries in transition. The pace and comprehensiveness of economic reforms will vary from country to country. However, the reform process will inevitably be lengthy, as it involves wholesale changes in price mechanisms, in the concept of property, in industrial structures and in legal, commercial and financial institutions, as well as the creation of social safety nets for the most vulnerable segments of the population, whose situation will be worsened by the high cost of the reforms. As with all the former Soviet Republics, Armenia’s economy has been badly strained by the changes which followed the disintegration of the Soviet Union and the difficult transition to a market economy. It is further crippled by its over-reliance on trade with the former Soviet Republics; the blockade of transportation routes imposed by neighbouring Azerbaijan; an embargo by Turkey; and the damage inflicted by the disastrous earthquake in 1988. Other external conditions, such as the disruption of transport due to the difficulties faced by Georgia, have exacerbated the situation, contributing to the decline in Armenia’s industrial productivity. The legacy of the Soviet period, with its inefficiencies and excessive horizontal integration, has worsened the effects of the blockade. Despite these difficulties, the Armenian Government has begun implementing significant structural reforms to create a healthy market economy, beginning with the privatization process launched soon after the Armenian National Movement came to power in 1990. Indeed, the commitment to transform the centrally planned economy into a market economy stems from the philosophy of the democratic movement in Armenia and is seen as an integral part of the transition to a democratic State. In turn, a free market economy will flourish in a stable democracy, able to promote and underpin economic development. Armenia today is a country with more than 30 registered political parties. It has proclaimed freedom of the press, freedom of conscience and freedom of religion, and it has laws guaranteeing civil and political rights. Three free elections have already been held in Armenia: parliamentary and presidential elections and a referendum on independence. The upcoming referendum on the Constitution and the elections of the National Assembly and the President of the Republic will reaffirm the establishment of a democratic tradition. Democracy is fundamental to the process of economic transformation, which can be divided into three phases, more or less typical for all countries in transition: institutional reforms; long-term investments and changes of technological structures; and integration into international markets. It is imperative, however, to set priorities and to identify the most pressing issues of the moment. In my opinion, Armenia is at the end of the first phase, which includes the creation of a legal framework for economic reform, within which private economic activity can take place, a framework ensuring that contracts are enforced and that private property is protected; freeing of prices; privatization; adoption of a national currency; financial and budgetary stabilization; and improvement in the balance of payments. We have already accomplished 80 per cent of this phase. Armenia has distinguished itself as the first among the former Soviet Republics to privatize the ownership of agricultural land and livestock production. The privatization of small and medium businesses as well as large enterprises is well under way. In late 1993, with the collapse of the rouble zone, Armenia faced a monetary crisis. The uncontrollable flow of old Soviet roubles into Armenia and Armenia’s subsequent inability to control monetary policy on its own territory forced the Government in November 1993 prematurely to introduce a national currency, the dram. The Government is currently implementing a programme based on controlling and lowering the inflation rate, enforcing a strict budget, controlling fiscal expenditures and targeting assistance to the most vulnerable groups. Basic reforms have been undertaken in the banking sector, the first of which was to break down the mono- bank system of central planning into a two-tiered system comprising a central bank and a group of commercial banks. In Armenia, as in all the emerging democracies, there is no historical precedent for the economic transition. It requires lasting commitment and patience as well as the substantial support of the international community. Of course neither short- and medium-term adjustment programmes nor long-term development strategies can hope to succeed fully without sustained growth in the world economy and favourable external conditions. We recognize that there is no single model of transition to be prescribed for all countries or, even more narrowly, for all post-communist societies as a whole. To ensure success for United Nations efforts in the countries in transition the Organization must tailor its involvement to each country’s resources and procedures, giving priority to programmes rather than to projects. That approach essentially boils down to the definition of key objectives for each programme that will reflect the priorities of the national Government and the organization of assistance around the achievement of those goals, which can be accomplished by strengthening the role of the Resident Coordinator system. Armenia appreciates the Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development as an important and necessary complement to 'An Agenda for Peace'. It is a comprehensive and thoughtful reflection upon the various dimensions of development and the role of the United Nations in that connection. At the recently held world gatherings on development there was broad agreement that the Agenda should be sustained by an action-oriented framework and practical proposals aimed at resolving existing imbalances in the various development areas. We look forward to the further elaboration of the Agenda 2 for Development by the Secretary-General through a number of concrete proposals with regard to the reform of both the United Nations system and the intergovernmental consultative machinery for development, as well as specific recommendations for greater coordination within the United Nations as a whole, including the Bretton Woods institutions and the proposed World Trade Organization. Such an elaboration is needed if the Agenda is to lead to a global partnership for development. Armenia looks forward to participating in and contributing to the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen. The World Summit, to be held in the United Nations fiftieth anniversary year, is a landmark event and will build upon the commitments of a series of United Nations global gatherings, including the 1990 World Summit for Children, the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro and the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, and it will be followed by the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995. These are all key events in the process of international consensus-building. Development and human rights are interrelated and mutually reinforcing. There can be no genuine long-term development without respect for the full spectrum of the rights of individuals. The Vienna Conference on Human Rights held last year deepened the understanding of the significance of human rights for stability, freedom, peace, progress and justice. The establishment of the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights was vital to a more effective implementation of the principles of human rights. Member States must continue to work to increase the effectiveness of existing United Nations human-rights mechanisms and to support the High Commissioner in the fulfilment of his mandate. Armenia considers self-determination in its multitude of manifestations to be an inalienable human right. Armenia’s position on the Nagorny Karabakh conflict has been clear and consistent from the start. Armenia has no territorial claims against Azerbaijan. The conflict is between the people of Nagorny Karabakh, who are striving for self-determination, and the Azerbaijani Government, which is refusing to address the rights of the people of Nagorny Karabakh. Armenia provides moral, diplomatic and humanitarian assistance to the people of Nagorny Karabakh, and it cannot accept a military solution which can only mean the genocide or deportation of the population of Nagorny Karabakh. While the Nagorny Karabakh conflict has gone through periods of both intense fighting and relative calm since I spoke here two years ago, there has never before been a period in the five-year history of the conflict when a cease-fire has taken hold for so long. I am pleased to inform the Assembly today that the cease-fire of 12 May 1994, which was mediated by the Russian Federation, is in general being maintained. But what is more gratifying and encouraging is that, through direct and immediate contacts between the parties to the conflict, the de facto 12 May cease-fire was formalized on 27 July 1994, and on 28 August 1994 the parties reaffirmed their commitment to the cease-fire until such time as a political document has been signed. Armenia congratulates the main parties to the conflict for their commitment to maintain the cease-fire and to engage in direct dialogue. Armenia views this as an important confidence-building measure, as a major step towards the consolidation of the cease-fire and as a sign of a strong commitment to the successful conclusion of the current negotiations, which in turn will make possible the solution of the problem at the Minsk Conference of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. Clearly, the conflict has entered a new phase, in which the parties have demonstrated their desire for peace. Our new challenge, and the priority for Armenia, is the consolidation of the cease-fire and the establishment of peace. There is a historic opportunity today to end the conflict. But the cause of peace requires the active, unified support of the international community to consolidate the cease-fire. The cumulative impact of the distrust of the past five years, on the one hand, and the lack of international measures to support consolidation, on the other hand, may increase the current uncertainty and threaten the fragile cease-fire. There is no doubt that, beyond the cessation of hostilities, a lasting peace will mostly depend on the ability of the main parties to the conflict and of the international community to develop innovative and internationally approved mechanisms for its establishment and maintenance. The primary concern for Armenia has been, and remains, the security of the people of Nagorny Karabakh. Both Armenia and Nagorny Karabakh have repeatedly expressed their readiness to comply with the relevant Security Council resolutions. A lasting peace can be 3 achieved only by ensuring the irreversibility of the peace process through the deployment of international security forces between Azerbaijan and Nagorny Karabakh until such time as a negotiated solution to the problem of Nagorny Karabakh has been reached, with the full participation of Nagorny Karabakh at the CSCE Minsk Conference. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is in direct contradiction of the peacemaking efforts of the United Nations. Armenia considers that only the unconditional and indefinite extension of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty will ensure that the Treaty serves its purpose. It is encouraging that negotiations on a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty have made important progress over the past year, and we hope that a text satisfactory to all can be agreed on soon. We support the integration of multilateral disarmament with United Nations activities relat to preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building. The debate in the General Assembly Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council has been very useful. Virtually all States Members of the United Nations favour an increase in the membership of the Security Council to reflect the radical changes in the world and the increase in the Organization’s overall membership. However, an increase in membership should not diminish the Council’s efficiency. It is necessary here to note that the Council has taken a number of constructive steps to improve its transparency and its communication with non-members. The Security Council should also be better able to respond to emerging threats and disputes before they escalate into armed conflict. With improved coordination of United Nations organizations and agencies devoted to economic and social progress, the Economic and Social Council could better assist the Security Council and advise it of potential emergencies arising out of economic and social conditions. Therefore, Armenia fully supports the call for restructuring of the Economic and Social Council and for the possible establishment of an economic security council. Improving the administrative performance of the United Nations is another priority. Armenia welcomes the current initiatives to streamline the Organization’s administrative and management structures and procedures to meet the demands now being made of the United Nations. In particular, we supported the United States initiative, and we are pleased that the General Assembly has created the Office of Internal Oversight Services. Let me return for a moment to the theme I began with. In this period of unprecedented change, many hardships - both expected and unforeseen - have arisen. The present era, full of challenge and hope, gives us new faith in the United Nations as the best and most appropriate forum for integrating all the interests of the various peoples of the world, which are too fragmented today. Universal harmony can be established only when discords are peacefully resolved and full cooperation between nations is achieved. The United Nations, strengthened by the noble principles and objectives enshrined in its Charter, and facing new responsibilities and tasks, can and must lead the way to a better organized and more harmonious world. Let me conclude by wishing the General Assembly every success in the demanding work it faces during this session. I warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your election is a tribute not only to you personally but also to your great country, Côte d’Ivoire. I am confident you will carry forward the high tradition set by your predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, to whom we owe our deep appreciation. The untiring efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to renew, reform and revitalize our Organization deserve our special tribute. As we stand at the threshold of the United Nations fiftieth anniversary, one goal remains paramount, namely, the need to promote human development and human security in all its manifold aspects. The role and relevance of the people are enshrined in the very first words of the Charter. People form the key link that bind our global society, the source of democracy, the object of humanitarian concern, the spirit of justice in ensuring human and minority rights. They are the cause and object of all our endeavour. 8 Too often, people have been ignored, to our peril. As we see the stricken faces of men, women and children around our world, the dead, the brutalized, the frightened and dispossessed, the hungry, diseased and despairing, this lesson is dramatically brought home by the media. And yet our sense of purpose and achievement is ennobled as we witness the new light of hope dawning in South Africa, the Middle East, Cambodia and in many other States and societies where the painstaking process of peace, democracy and development take root and where solutions are characterized with a human face. Individuals find identity in nations and nations derive cognition in universalism. The success or failure of the United Nations stems from the contribution each Member makes to promote its goals. The Organization’s principal motivation arises out of the responsibility borne by each nation for the stability and welfare of its own people. It is the sum total of these individual efforts that marks the United Nations measured progress towards maintaining peace, securing justice and realizing the Charter prerogative of “social progress and better standards of living in larger freedom”. The limitations of Governments are also painfully evident. International cooperation has become an imperative, not only because it is possible or necessary, but because it is indispensable in a world that has moved from interaction to interrelationship to interdependence. As we seek to seize opportunities and confront challenges at every level — individual, national or global — we are deeply aware of the contradictory forces at work, forces that emanate from both within and without our nations. The way we channel these forces into productive activities will determine the success of our common endeavour to forge a just and stable world order. On the positive side, ideological walls have tumbled, democracy has spread worldwide, more caring and responsible Governments have come to power and economic empowerment and social imperatives have lessened reliance on military culture. Pragmatic cutbacks in strategic weapons and a heightened focus on the destabilizing capabilities of conventional weapons have opened doors for more productive use of human, financial and material resources. Historic political changes in the Middle East and South Africa and political settlements in Asia and Central America can have a far-reaching positive impact on those regions. After a long period of stagnation the global economy is poised for its first significant expansion. The successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the creation of the World Trade Organization as a universal forum for trade negotiations and the settlement of disputes have brightened prospects for increased trade and long- term growth. More importantly, the desire and ability of developing countries to contribute to the growth of the world economy and help to mitigate common global concerns as participants and not as bystanders has significantly increased. Yet, negative impulses everywhere challenge peace and security, democracy and human rights, economic progress and social cohesion. Together, they call for a concerted response, nationally and internationally, that is new and imaginative. Today, issues of territorial security are being overshadowed by concerns over human security. There is increasing recognition of non-military threats to security. Nation States are under siege from multiple forces from within and without that are retarding their capacity to act effectively and independently. Within States resurgent micronationalism and factionalism based on narrow self-interest, ethnic and cultural rivalries, bigotry and extremism have contributed to unprecedented human misery. Political instability has fuelled economic breakdown, and economic backwardness has fired political upheaval in a never-ending vicious circle. Poverty, unemployment and social exclusion pushed by the population explosion, rapid urbanization, environmental degradation and a crisis in values, together with rising expectations, have led to social dislocation, alienation and sometimes violent confrontation. Demagogues, political separatists and fringe elements are being encouraged and supported by powerful external groups to challenge the capability and legitimacy of Governments to sustain socio-economic reform, peaceful progress and political stability. New global forces have emerged that no State acting alone can control but which threaten the legitimacy of all States. Pollution, ecological damage, the spread of communicable diseases and the massive speculative transfers of monies by electronic means have been the cause and manifestation of a host of cumulative ills. These have been exacerbated by corrosive new threats — organized crime, drug lords, traffickers in women and children, arms smugglers, money launderers and terrorists — that eat into all societies, vitiating values and crippling development. Furthermore, rapid technological progress and transnational processes are reducing the 9 scope of nation States to act on their own, to regulate domestic policies and the international movements of goods, services, labour and capital. On another plane, fears are surfacing that the bipolar world of the past 50 years could now assume a new configuration, a North-South polarity, not between opposing political and social systems but between rich and poor nations. Anxiety is increasing in the South that its interests are being marginalized; that there is a diversion of resources away from the South; that its potential to act as a partner in revitalizing the world economy is being ignored and new constraints, aid conditionalities, rigid adjustment measures, standards of human rights and good governance, environmental criteria and military scrutiny are being selectively imposed. There are signs that, while social and environmental issues are being highlighted, vital economic and development imperatives are being sidelined, although both are integrally related and mutually reinforcing. Indeed, there is a crisis in development policy, which manifests itself in stagnation, absence of dialogue, selectivity and insufficient interest, participation and commitment. It is against the backdrop of those prospects and problems that I now turn to the position and priorities of our Government. There is strong recognition in Bangladesh today that to promote representative and constitutional government, strengthen human rights and ensure socio- economic emancipation a country must increasingly depend on itself. Individual self-reliance must be bolstered by collective self-reliance through South-South cooperation in concrete and practical areas of cooperation such as food production, manpower planning, trade, investment and joint ventures. The critical catalyst, however, remains a reactivation of a constructive North-South dialogue leading to a more conducive external environment that can supplement individual efforts. Reaching out to the attainment of these goals, Bangladesh has a development policy that embraces a fourfold perspective: addressing structural and macroeconomic reform; stimulating the market economy; increasing the quality and amount of productive investments; and concentrating on human-resources development, particularly the empowerment of women. These perspectives are all linked together by the unifying theme of the alleviation of poverty. The cardinal emphasis is on the connection between structural adjustment and alleviation of poverty — that is, the quantity and quality of programmes favouring the needs of the poor and most vulnerable. Our efforts at reform and consolidation have led to some positive results. Bangladesh is enjoying today perhaps the longest period of macroeconomic stability in its history. The budget deficit has been reduced. Imports and exports have increased. Foreign-exchange reserves are comfortable, inflation is at an all-time low, and there is increased self-reliance in financing our annual development plans. Today we are financing 38 per cent of our development projects from our own resources. We have achieved near self-sufficiency in food production, and the overall gross-domestic-product growth rate has reached 5 per cent. The incidence of absolute poverty has decreased and some headway has been made in advancing our human-development policy. We can reasonably be proud of our efforts to stabilize population growth and contain and mitigate the impact of natural disasters. A concerted and determined family-planning programme has yielded positive results. Population growth has fallen from 3 per cent to 2.03 per cent, accompanied by progress in reducing family size; declining infant, child and maternal mortality rates; and expansion of the immunization programme to cover 74 per cent of all children. We believe that the recent successfully concluded Cairo International Conference on Population and Development has strengthened our efforts in dealing with three critical, interlinked issues — namely, a holistic approach to development, of which population policies are but one essential element; informed choice in accordance with the laws and culture of each society; and the vital issue of garnering and allocating additional resources. Preparedness and planning for disasters helped us contain the consequences of the devastating cyclone of 1994 without recourse to outside help. Bangladesh was able to save countless lives by timely evacuation of hundreds of thousands of people and to get on with rehabilitation and reconstruction measures on its own. Democracy has taken firm root in Bangladesh. Like all democracies we have our share of domestic differences, but we remain fully committed to working out our differences through democratic dialogue and the rule of law. Fragile democratic institutions and traditions in new democracies need strong and sustained international support. Our experience has demonstrated vividly that without improved standards of living and a vision of the future that can sustain hope, democracy will wither. Equally, without people’s participation the potential for socio-economic progress cannot be achieved. 10 It is also clear that, to survive within States, democracy needs to be sustained through democratization among States so that it can expand universally as an essential foundation for cooperation. We firmly believe that the restoration and consolidation of democracy worldwide within States and among States is a vital bed-rock for peace. We are indeed happy that the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights, in Vienna, upheld the right to development as a basic human right and as a vital catalyst in mutually reinforcing the interrelationship of democracy, development and human rights. Widespread poverty and economic deprivation seriously vitiate the protection and promotion of human rights in many societies, despite the best of intentions. These realities need to be recognized for a realistic evaluation of human rights in developing countries. For national efforts to succeed, it is essential to create an atmosphere of peace within our own region. Bangladesh continues to sustain the momentum and viability of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), not only to promote its fundamental socio- economic mandate but also to create a more receptive climate for broad-based confidence building, to reduce tension in the region and to contribute to the resolution of outstanding differences through dialogue and negotiation. A major endeavour of Bangladesh, as the current Chairperson of SAARC, has been to consolidate cooperation between members so that they may, in the words of our Prime Minister, Begum Khaleda Zia, turn into partners of development to combat poverty in the region and meet the most important challenge to security from hunger, disease, ignorance and prejudice. The Prime Minister stated that the options of unilateralism and bilateralism might seem tempting in the short run but in the long-term interests of the SAARC spirit we need to display more commitment for multilateralism and for building a better regional consensus. Bilaterally, we have taken important steps to strengthen constructive relations with all our immediate neighbours in pursuit of our policy of friendship, cooperation and peaceful coexistence with all countries of the world. The exodus of 250,000 Myanmar refugees to Bangladesh since 1991 has imposed an enormous socio-economic and environmental burden on our country. The rate of repatriation is still slow, and we hope that with the policy of mass registration carried out by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) the pace of repatriation will pick up and all the refugees will return to their country. There has been some improvement in our relations with our largest neighbour, India, on the issue of the return of Chakma refugees and on that of economic interactions. However, the critical issue of sharing Ganges waters remains unresolved. Meanwhile, one dry season has followed after another without any water flowing to the Ganges and this is having a cumulatively disastrous effect on the economy and environment of one third of our country and on the socio-economic survival of 40 million people. We earnestly hope that India, our partner in the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation and our neighbour, would agree to a fair sharing of common rivers, including the Ganges. We hope our common friends would recognize the implications of the situation and encourage the support of an early and equitable solution. National efforts in the absence of global cooperation have only limited prospects of improving the human condition and ensuring peace, justice and development. Recognizing this fact, we are engaged in perhaps the most comprehensive exercise ever undertaken to streamline our Organization, to reform and restructure its main organs and, together, to forge a more meaningful agenda, one that is action-oriented, cost-efficient and adequately funded. The Secretary-General has set the stage with his proposals put forward in An Agenda for Peace and in An Agenda for Development. The structure and shape of this world agenda that is leading us into a new century has been given more refined substance by a variety of concentrated suggestions: the outcome of world conferences and the follow-up to them, making possible legislation and new and innovative proposals. They form a continuum that is closely integrated and interrelated. Bangladesh has been an active participant in this concerted build-up. Certain key imperatives strike us as particularly important. The end of the cold war should not mark the end of competition to support development around the world. The global society is only as strong as its weakest link. The world cannot prosper if the poorest continue to decline. Peace and development are intrinsically interlinked, and peacemaking and peace- keeping must go hand in hand with peace-building. Resolving social issues must be based on the recognition of the centrality of the individual, the acceptance of human equality, and the worth and dignity of the human person. Yet social development is predicated on progress in economic development. Together with environment and population, it forms the logic of comprehensive sustainable development. These 11 are not separate concerns, but integrated within a composite whole. The core of development and its main impetus will remain accelerated economic growth fuelled by the input of additional resources and by resource generation. The growing divide between rich and poor among and within nations is of central concern. The plight of the least developed countries assumes special poignancy at a time when the world economy has yet to show convincing signs of recovery, macroeconomic coordination is weak and poverty is inexorably deepening. The unabated development crisis calls for urgent remedial action, especially to implement quickly the 1990s Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries. A proper response to these problems requires accelerating growth, writing off debts, wider and preferential access of exports to markets of developing countries markets, enhanced flow of foreign direct investment and supportive action in the area of services and labour. The phenomenon of widespread and increasing unemployment and underemployment in both developing and developed countries needs to be addressed as a matter of urgency. Today, even food availability is determined by access to employment and financial resources. Rectifying the situation of jobless women and combating poverty among women are major priorities. Reducing damage to the ecosystem and mitigating the consequences of natural disasters continue to be a great burden for all concerned. Unchecked consumption of resources, production patterns triggered by developed countries and the real plight of the poor need to be dealt with through remedial action rather than analysis. There has been an increase in the movements of people across borders as migrants, persons seeking asylum, refugees or displaced persons. Much closer introspection is required to analyse and solve this crisis. A key factor would be the promotion of socio-economic development and the protection of migrants. Strengthening the rule of international law is imperative, inasmuch as it offers certainty, predictability and the assurance of the legitimate interests of all States. This continues to be the only real protection for smaller and weaker States, especially in areas where the absence of law can mean a serious potential for conflicts such as the scarcity and sharing of water, maritime jurisdiction, transboundary pollution and environmental damage, and so on. In this context, we welcome the entry into force, on 16 November 1994, of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. A critical yardstick for all these concerns is the issue of limited resources and the need for new and additional resources. At the heart of the matter is the need for a commitment to enhance the entire development cause rather than particular interests. It calls for balancing long-term interests that will not only address continuing emergencies and immediate conflicts but will face up to the underlying silent crisis of development. The absence of peace in our world is a continuing reality. It is manifest in an immense array of conflicts, no two of which are alike. They call for solutions that must be adapted to widely differing circumstances in new and creative ways. Past, present and potential conflicts haunt us. Many nations bear the burden of recent devastation and ethnic strife. No one is safe from the threat of nuclear overkill and nascent nuclear proliferation. The ongoing arms race, the potential of a return to antagonistic spheres of influence, and the threat of regional hegemony all carry within them the dangers of conflict and destabilization. Yet today, the real heart of our concern is the recognition that any viable solution must be directed towards promoting development as a fundamental impetus for, and long-term measure of, peace. Among Bangladesh’s major priorities are the following. First, of key importance is the preservation of the security of smaller and weaker States and the strengthening of the rule of law. The enhanced role and contribution of the International Court of Justice now assumes much greater relevance. Secondly, the reduction of military expenditures is essential for development and peace. Escalating arms expenditures continue to consume too large a share of productive resources and capacities. From 1987 to 1992, the cumulative peace dividend resulting from reduced military expenses and cut-backs in arms amounted to some $500 billion in both developed and developing countries. Little of this dividend was channelled into development. Reduced reliance on military security must also be buttressed through monitoring, regulating and limiting the growing traffic in arms, especially the clandestine arms trade. 12 Thirdly, regional efforts and regional disarmament are vital imperatives to stabilize peace. Regional groups can and must harness durable structures of stability at the base, through confidence-building measures and broad-based socio-economic cooperation. For the first time, in the wake of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) process, Asia has begun to look hard at steps towards Asian security. The United Nations Centre for Disarmament Affairs has initiated over the past five years a vital process of dialogue and interaction that has opened up useful prospects and potential. These provide an analytical base that strongly supports the goal of promoting regional security arrangements under Chapter VIII of the Charter. Disarmament and arms control are the major vehicle to reduce the threat of destabilization, economic decline and tensions leading to war. A new momentum has been generated that needs to be pushed and sustained. Progress towards negotiating a comprehensive nuclear test ban, the signing of the chemical weapons Convention, the establishment of a Register on conventional arms — these are important milestones on this road. A strengthened nuclear non-proliferation regime has gained in significance with important advances in nuclear disarmament. A critical concern is the objective of extending the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) either indefinitely or for limited periods, contingent on progress on the other objectives of the Treaty, nuclear disarmament and peaceful uses of nuclear technology. Bangladesh is committed to support the continuation and strengthening of the NPT, and we look forward to actively participating in the 1995 review and extension Conference. Bangladesh has purposefully contributed to United Nations peace-keeping efforts, and stands proud of its record as the fourth largest contributor of troops, dispersed over 10 conflict areas. We strongly add our voice in concert with those who seek to make peace operations a more effective instrument of collective security and to enhance the structural framework for performing and managing peace-keeping, including strengthened staff, stronger logistic capability and greater coordination, standardization and support for training. In the formulation of critical follow-up guidelines to strengthen peace-keeping we would like to pinpoint the following matters. First, there is a need to define clear-cut mandates with definite time frames, objectives and rules of engagement and with secured financing. This must keep in view the real constraint identified by the Secretary-General, that traditional assumptions relating to the consent and cooperation of parties, upholding of agreements and minimum use of force have all been under challenge in recent peace-keeping developments. Secondly, there is a need for impartiality, full transparency and continuous consultations with troop- contributing countries so that mandates can be constantly reviewed, updated and amended. The role of the General Assembly must be enhanced in this regard. Thirdly, there should be clear-cut political directions and a clearly defined command and control structure for each operation. Fourthly, contributions to peace-keeping operations are mandatory and arrears must be paid in full. Resources for peace-keeping should not be at the expense of resources for development activities of the United Nations. Fifthly, decisions on peace-keeping operations should include provisions for the safety of personnel, appropriate standardized compensation of all personnel and timely payments. Intimately connected to the process of peace-building in both its political and economic dimension are efforts to reform and revitalize the main organs of the United Nations — the General Assembly and the Security Council. Bangladesh has been an active participant in this exercise and will continue to play a constructive, moderating and flexible role to promote the realization of these efforts for greater democratization, efficiency, effectiveness and legitimacy. I turn now to some of the critical political issues on our agenda. Bangladesh’s consistent and categorical position on the Middle East question and the issue of Palestine needs no reiteration. We believe the Palestinian cause to be founded on justice. We have always stood for a comprehensive solution, which must be based on serious a commitment by Israel to abide by Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978); the principle of returning land for peace; restoration of Arab sovereignty over occupied lands; and recognition of the inalienable national rights of the Palestinians, including a State of their own. We believe that a historic momentum has been initiated since the Madrid Peace Conference in 13 October 1991, the signing of the Declaration of Principles between Israel and Palestine in September 1993, the Cairo agreement on Gaza and Jericho and the common agenda agreed between Jordan and Israel this year. We welcome these vital steps in the peace process, and hope they will lead to a viable and durable settlement. We hail the establishment of a united, democratic and non-racial Republic of South Africa, a long-cherished goal, and applaud all parties for their relentless and courageous endeavour to this end. Our special tribute goes to President Nelson Mandela and Mr. de Klerk. Bangladesh looks forward to consolidating our relations with South Africa in more concrete ways, bilaterally and in all multilateral forums. We are deeply concerned over the vicious cycle of starvation, factional fighting, breakdown of central authority, economic stagnation and exodus of refugees in various parts of Africa, exemplified by the situation in Rwanda. We are committed to supporting the Security Council’s effort, especially through peace-keeping operations, to break this cycle through a comprehensive programme of action that could provide vital relief assistance, consolidate cease-fires, curtail violence and bring about national reconciliation. We welcome the efforts of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Arab League to promote and supplement these efforts. In our own region we are anguished by the continuing strife in Afghanistan, and urge all Afghan leaders to resolve differences through peaceful dialogue based on accords signed in Istanbul, Mecca and Tehran. We fervently hope that they can reach a broad-based consensus leading to the formulation of a durable government through free and fair elections. We welcome efforts, including those of the Secretary-General of the OIC, the United Nations and special representatives aimed at bringing about a comprehensive and peaceful settlement in Afghanistan. The tragedy of Bosnia and Herzegovina continues. Plans, deadlines, hopes for settlement have proved infructuous. The latest plan drawn up by the Contact Group of representatives from the United States, Russia, the United Nations and the European Union has been rejected by the Bosnian Serbs. At the heart of the issue is the dismemberment of a sovereign Member of the United Nations, justified on the basis of pragmatic reality. The arms embargo imposed on the Bosnians crippled them from the outset, making any agreement artificial. Serbian aggression and genocide appalled the world, yet too little was done to stop it. Bangladesh believes that much more needs to be done to ensure justice, including strengthening the mandate and numbers of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), lifting the arms embargo, extending exclusion zones and ultimately making the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina a safe haven. The international community has repeatedly affirmed the inviolability, territorial integrity and political independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We feel that continuing pressure must be maintained on the former Yugoslavia to recognize Bosnia and Herzegovina and effectively realize a just and negotiated settlement. If present efforts of the Contact Group fail to result in a political settlement we fully support the convening, under United Nations auspices, of an appropriately structured international conference on Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are glad that there have been exhaustive attempts at a peaceful resolution of the problem of Haiti. Bangladesh has pledged its fullest support to this end, guided by two key principles: commitment to the preservation and restoration of democracy wherever it is threatened in the world, and willingness to serve in peace- keeping operations under United Nations command mandated by the Security Council. We hope that will remain a cardinal point for the future as well. I may say in conclusion that Bangladesh remains fully committed to the United Nations as the only forum that can deal with the cooperative management of the world’s problems and where we can successfully meet the challenge of the future by drawing upon our combined solidarity to confront it together. On behalf of the delegation of Madagascar, may I congratulate you most sincerely on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. You assumption of this important post brings pride and hope to Africa, which sees this session as a special opportunity for drawing the international community’s attention to the economic and social problems it has been facing in recent years. My delegation assures you of its full cooperation and support, which we also offer to the other members of the Bureau. To them also I address my congratulations. I also wish to pay tribute to your distinguished predecessor, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, who so ably and in so masterly a fashion presided over the Assembly at its forty- eighth session. In this new era in international relations the world faces two contradictory situations: one, unforgettable pictures of national reconciliation and faith in the future, the other, a vision of the horror of peoples and nations ripping each other apart, even to the extent of annihilating one another. The international community keeps on swinging back and forth between pride and dejection and between great hope and deep despair. The actual progress made in ways of handling and settling certain disputes nevertheless strengthens our belief in the principles and covenants set forth in the Charter of our Organization. For example, we welcome the encouraging developments in Mozambique, which is now about to hold its first multiparty elections. Similarly, the negotiations in Lusaka between the Angolan Government and UNITA are beginning to bear fruit. Moreover, the clear efforts by those involved to smooth out the difficulties of applying the settlement plan in Western Sahara give us grounds for some optimism about the outcome of that dispute. My delegation would also encourage those who are involved in the nuclear problem in the Korean peninsula to continue their talks with a view to arriving at a negotiated solution, which would help to promote stability and peace in the region. With the same end in mind, Madagascar hopes there will be a peaceful settlement, on the basis of Security Council resolutions, of the problems between Kuwait and Iraq, with a view to establishing a mutually beneficial atmosphere of security and cooperation in the region. The much-acclaimed return of a united, non-racial and democratic South Africa to the community of nations is one of the major events of the last decade of this century and a subject of enormous pride for us all. Madagascar welcomes the establishment of a non-racial regime in that great country and firmly believes that reorganizing South Africa on a democratic basis opens up new prospects for cooperation and development throughout the region. Thanks to the political courage of the Israeli, Palestinian and Jordanian leaders, the Middle East has now begun a process of historic reconciliation that seemed impossible just a short time ago. The Malagasy Government is following closely the ups and downs of the implementation of the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government Arrangements in Gaza and Jericho signed by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Agreement between Israel and Jordan on the Common Agenda. The United Nations should encourage all the parties to use the relevant resolutions with a view to establishing a comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East region. With the disappearance of a world balance based on fear of a nuclear holocaust there came hope for a world free from the scourge of war and favourable to the strengthening of international cooperation. Unfortunately, recent events in the international arena show that the new international order is indeed precarious. 7 Today we are seeing a reappearance of armed conflict in almost all parts of the world. Several countries are now plunged in fratricidal wars resulting in human tragedy and political chaos. Underlying these tragedies we see, inter alia, intolerance, xenophobia, the problem of minorities and, above all, the absence of democratic practices in the settlement of disputes. Somalia, Liberia, Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia are tragic and dangerous situations which threaten not only the equilibrium of their regions but also international peace and security. Other situations which are too often ignored could degenerate into serious crises. The problem of borders in central and eastern Europe, the disturbing situation in the Indian subcontinent and the flow of refugees in Africa, Asia and even in Europe are all situations that show how fragile international security is. The efforts on the part of the United Nations to resolve regional and subregional disputes must be supported by greater world-wide cooperation in disarmament. In this connection my delegation attaches high priority to continuing initiatives and concerted actions by Member States to put a stop to the uncontrolled movement of arms and to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. My delegation hopes that the consensus at the last session on multilateral negotiations on a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty will lead to the conclusion of a universal treaty so as to improve the prospects for the 1995 Conference of parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Broadening the activities of the United Nations in regard to peace-keeping and in regard to full achievement of the development goals calls for greater effectiveness in the United Nations machinery if the Organization is to live up to the expectations of the international community. As for the role of the United Nations in the maintenance and restoration of peace, recent experience clearly shows the need for reform with a view to strengthening the United Nations capacity to prevent breaches of the peace on the one hand, and on the other hand to carry out peace-keeping operations on the ground. Lessons can be learned from the difficulties encountered in Somalia, the tragedy of Rwanda, and the sorry experience of the former Yugoslavia. Those United Nations missions that were to some extent successful benefitted from the following factors: broad support from the international community; the consent of the parties to the dispute; and non-violent and impartial intervention forces. A peace-keeping operation per se should be accompanied by diplomatic efforts and economic and social assistance and should also tackle the underlying causes of the conflict. In any event, preventive diplomacy is the best means of averting the eruption of potential conflicts. The use of regional machinery for the settlement of disputes would improve the conduct of peace-keeping operations and would, for example, avoid delay in mobilizing humanitarian assistance. After all, who is better placed than the States of a region to react to a potential threat there, particularly if the region already has an adequate structure for the prevention of conflicts? Examples of this are the system of collective security in Europe and the mechanism for the prevention, management and settlement of disputes in Africa. Yet this Organization should not just unload its problems on to regional mechanisms; rather, it should offert h o s e mechanisms the necessary support by providing a clear and precise mandate and by making adequate financial and logistic resources available. Never before have circumstances been so favourable for realizing the aspiration of the majority of Members of this Organization to an enlarged Security Council that provides equitable representation. Many proposals concerning this topic are now being discussed by the General Assembly’s Open-Ended Working Group. Madagascar, which, as is demonstrated by its Constitution, is deeply committed to democratic principles, believes that the democracy that is advocated in many countries should apply in the international system too. Madagascar is open to any proposal that would not damage the effectiveness of the Security Council. At the same time, we emphasize the need for democratic representation reflecting contemporary realities. The Government of Madagascar does not underestimate the special responsibility of States that are permanent members of the Security Council, especially in the area of contributions to peace-keeping operations. However, any reform that is undertaken should win the support of all Member States so that they will have the necessary trust in it and be able to participate effectively and on an equal footing. The same principles apply to development problems, in that political stability at the national, regional and international levels determines whether development 8 objectives can be met. There can be no peace without development, as can be seen in various parts of the world where serious conflicts and political troubles have been caused by economic hardship. Against this backdrop, the imperative of the universality of peace and development forcefully tells us to take note of how the world economic situation is developing. The crisis that has affected the world economy for more than a decade is worsening, despite a slow and fragile recovery in some developed countries. This crisis continues to make a negative impact on the development process in third-world countries: erratic fluctuations in rates of exchange, an increase in interest rates and an unprecedented deterioration in the terms of trade - to mention only the most notable effects of the past year. The gap between North and South grows wider while the inequalities between the regions become increasingly striking. Poverty and extreme poverty are daily being ingrained in the countries that are now referred to as the fourth world. The situation in Africa has become alarming. The crisis there is magnified by the negative effects of natural disasters and civil and ethnic wars. Problems such as the crushing weight of external debt, stagnation, if not a reduction, in official development assistance, financial and trade restraints and a continuing drop in commodity prices are - today as yesterday - symptoms of a crisis in development. Alongside this crisis, a serious change is taking place at the cost of developing countries, particularly poor countries. In the present restructuring of the world economy the interdependence that is preached has contradictory effects. While the countries of the North enjoy protectionism in all its forms in their markets, liberalism is becoming a requirement for developing countries. Equally, there is talk of the interdependence of problems but sectoral approaches alone are still used. Economies in the industrialized countries are becoming increasingly integrated, while we note increasing marginalization of the economies of the poor countries. While the industrialized countries increase their independence in raw materials through the development of micro-electronics, the developing countries are suffering the backlash, and their already-fragile economic position is being weakened further. These are new challenges that we have to take up in the international arena. Faced with these paradoxes and contradictions, which keep us deadlocked, and with economic stagnation in third-world countries, we have to ask how we can get out of this situation. It is clear that only by combining our efforts at all levels - national, regional and international - shall we be able to produce a lasting solution. As to the national level, I should like to cite the case of my own country. The Government of Madagascar has made development the principal objective underlying its activities at the national and international levels. Thus diplomacy is put at the service of development and, without any ideological considerations, is focused on the establishment of relations with all States on the basis of respect for the great fundamental principles set forth in the various international legal instruments. While continuing to implement its structural- adjustment programme, Madagascar has made important political changes in the shape of democratization, characterized by the blossoming of a multi-party approach and the creation of the conditions necessary to the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In short, we are working towards the advent of a state of law that responds to the deeply felt aspirations of our people. This democratization of our political life is accompanied by economic reform based on liberalism designed to promote active participation by our people in the development of the country. In this context, our Government is trying to create a climate of trust in our institutional framework, and we are trying to draw up clear rules for production and investment in order to guarantee the necessary political support at the national and international levels. The Government of Madagascar would like to thank the friendly countries and international institutions that have understood the importance of the changes now under way and that intend to support them and to increase their contributions to satisfy our most urgent needs and, in the long term, help to strengthen our democratic process and promote real, self-sustaining development. When we use the term 'immediate needs,' we are thinking of a set of relief mechanisms designed to deal with the precarious situation of our principal social sectors because of the demands of the structural adjustment programme. 9 As for the economic recovery and development programme, I should like to recall that the Government of the Republic of Madagascar is prepared to conclude agreements with the Bretton Woods institutions. It is our ardent hope that, above and beyond their current demands for adjustments to achieve financial equilibrium and balanced budgets, those institutions will take new measures to reorient that programme towards true recovery accompanied by an economic take-off and sustainable development. At the regional level, developing countries have come up with guidelines and goals and have now buckled down to implementing them. In the case of Africa, I would recall the Lagos Plan of Action and Final Act, the African Alternative Framework for Structural Adjustment Programmes (AAF-SAP) and the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. Four years after the launching of the new Programme of Action, we have to say that the expected results have not yet been achieved and that Africa, one of the worlds least-developed continents, has not received the hoped for assistance and aid from the rich countries. Because of their own efforts to implement measures for rehabilitation and recovery, often involving considerable sacrifices, the African countries deserve a more positive response from the international community. It is crucial to problems of debt, commodity diversification and the provision of adequate financial resources if African States are to be assured not only the conditions required for true economic and social take-off, but also the success of the structural and political reforms now under way, free from social upheaval and the danger of a decline in security and stability. The United Nations has an important role to play in finding appropriate solutions to development problems. The persistent nature of the problems we customarily evoke here in the Assembly every year shows once again the inadequacy of the policies and measures adopted so far - despite the adoption of several international instruments for cooperation, such as the Declaration of the eighteenth special session of the General Assembly, the International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade, the Cartegena Commitment of the eighth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD VIII), the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and Agenda 21. The problems we are facing can no longer be dealt with adequately on an ad hoc basis or constantly subjected to adjustment measures. What is required is structural reform of the international economic system, which, despite profound changes, is still unjust and perpetuates relations of dependency. In other words, it is very important to define new strategies and agree on new parameters and mechanisms that can reverse the inequities in international economic relations today. This is a task for the United Nations, which, because of its universality and its democratic principles, remains the only forum that can tackle these problems with an integrated approach, taking into account the political implications of decisions made by those principally involved in development, including financial, monetary and international trade institutions. The Agenda for Development, the indispensable corollary to the Agenda for Peace, launched two years ago by the Secretary-General, should give to the international community new guidelines as it seeks to attain development objectives. The elaboration of that Agenda should be given special attention. The Agenda’s first objectives should be to eliminate poverty, meet peoples’ basic needs and improve their standard of living. It should seek to promote effective implementation of existing commitments and agreements and take into account the goals of forthcoming international conferences in the field of economic and social development. Instead of talking about requirements or conditions, it should set forth practical and realistic ways of meeting the challenges with which we are faced. In this connection, the attention of the international community should be focused on questions of debt, development financing, commodities, international trade, environment and development. Support for economic and technical cooperation between developing countries and the strengthening of regional and sub-regional integration initiatives should be an integral part of the new Agenda. Experience has shown the resumption of development through renewed international cooperation cannot succeed without the political will of States, especially the rich ones. Although such cooperation depends on many variables, and is affected by many different circumstances, it can no longer disregard the principles of justice, equity and equal but differentiated participation. 10 At this crucial moment in its history, the Organization must learn from the past so that it can consolidate its achievements, meet today’s challenges and develop a plan for the future of the United Nations. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations will be the time for drawing up a balance sheet, for making the Organization, the Member States and the people of the world face up to their respective responsibilities. This historic moment will make clear the gap between hopes and reality, between commitments fulfilled and promises forgotten. Efforts to restructure the Organization and give it a second wind will be successful only if there is a true resolve to arrive at a world consensus for development, in all its aspects, as the foundation of peace and a source of hope for all mankind. For its part, Madagascar is prepared to work with peace-loving and justice-loving States to build a better world. First, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate the President on his unanimous election. Like other colleagues who have preceded me, I am confident that he will guide us through this session effectively. Allow me also to place on record our appreciation for his predecessor, Ambassador Insanally, who presided over a very hectic and productive session. The end of the cold war has not led us to the end of conflicts. Instead, it has given rise to many internecine, intra-State ethnic and religious conflicts, bringing destruction, chaos and suffering in their wake. With the major Powers preoccupied with their domestic economic, political, social and other problems, the world has had no choice but to turn to the United Nations for help. Firstly, there is no alternative. Secondly, there is the expectation that, freed of the past super-Power rivalry that had immobilized the United Nations, the United Nations will now be able to fulfil the aims of its founding fathers to create a better world. In the last few years, with these demands for United Nations action increasing manifold, the United Nations has had to grapple simultaneously with many trouble spots around the world. In its first 42 years of existence until 1988, the United Nations launched only 13 peace- keeping operations. But in the short space of the last six to seven years, it has seen 21 peace-keeping operations. Peace-keeping expenditures have also risen dramatically from the 1986 figure of about $350 million to $3.4 billion projected for 1994. International relations have for a long time been conducted in an inter-State system, with the overriding principle being respect of the sovereignty of independent nations. The main focus of the United Nations Charter 14 was and is on how the international community can respond to threats to peace and security issues between nation-States, as opposed to crises within a State. The world community and the United Nations in particular have relatively little experience to draw upon in managing intra-State conflicts and intra-State peace-keeping. The dilemmas faced by the Security Council in dealing with Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia and Rwanda, just to name a few, demonstrate that the United Nations is still evolving its approach on how to respond to these challenges. These new challenges of dealing with intra-State conflicts, it would appear, will continue to be with us. The 1994 United Nations Development Programme report on the Human Development Index indicates that 79 of the 82 global military conflicts since 1991 were intra-State in nature. Can the United Nations, which represents the world’s conscience, avoid getting involved in such conflicts? On the one hand, the United Nations is criticized for not intervening in Rwanda in the earlier stages of the civil war. It is argued that if it had, we could have avoided the immense humanitarian disaster we now see in that country. On the other hand, others maintain that the United Nations is not ready to shoulder the implied responsibility, after getting involved in intra-State conflicts, of nursing a country back to the political stability and economic health which is, of course, necessary to prevent a repetition of famine, chaos and other troubles. Member States are coming round to recognizing that there are political, financial and institutional limitations to the United Nations. We cannot realistically expect the United Nations to resolve all forms of civil wars within national boundaries. For now, we have reverted to the more onerous but perhaps sensible approach of responding to situations on a case by case basis. Inevitably, however, the United Nations will need to establish guidelines and criteria, either formal or otherwise, to decide where United Nations involvement will be necessary and when it will be effective. The Security Council already appears to have taken steps in this direction. In a May 1994 statement, it agreed that the existence of a threat to international peace and security, and of a clear political goal reflected in a precise mandate, are factors which should be considered when establishing new peace-keeping operations. Other factors should include, inter alia, whether a cease-fire exists and whether the parties have committed themselves to a peace process intended to reach a political settlement. Significantly, the Security Council also asked that it be informed of the likely availability of resources for the new operations. These are but preliminary guidelines. It will be necessary to build upon, refine and modify them to best meet the evolving peace and security challenges of this new era. In many cases of intra-State conflicts, it is probably more effective to address the underlying causes of conflict and provide a foundation for socio-economic development. The root causes of many conflicts are socio-economic: the distribution of scarce resources and the lack of development. Hence, we may do better to concentrate on development aid, education, good governance and basic infrastructure-building to lay the building-blocks to create a civil society. Where appropriate, these measures should be accompanied and supplemented by preventive diplomacy. Peace-keeping operations are a palliative, not a substitute for solving the root causes of conflicts. At a time when the United Nations is called upon to undertake and adapt to new and complex leadership roles in international peace and security, the persistent financial problems faced by our Organization have clearly to be addressed and overcome. The crucial point is that, having decided to launch a peace-keeping operation, Member States cannot allow it to fail, especially owing to lack of resources. The very credibility of our Organization would be questioned if we were to mandate the United Nations to take on new peace-keeping operations, and then watch them falter and fail because Member States are unwilling or unable to provide the requisite resources. Unfortunately, the Secretary-General had to again warn the Presidents of the Security Council and the General Assembly in July this year of the dire financial situation of the United Nations, especially in peace- keeping. Unless we do something, these warnings will be repeated year after year. With the many multidimensional challenges facing the United Nations in the post-cold-war era, it is difficult to envisage how the United Nations will be able to carry out its functions effectively if it has to live from hand to mouth in this manner. It is time Member States seriously addressed the issue of financial resources and tackled it firmly once and for all. There is only one solution to the financial crisis of the United Nations: Member States must pay their assessments in full and on time. Without our payments, the United Nations simply cannot function. Many Member States have failed to honour the legal and binding obligations that require them to pay their 15 assessments in full and on time. Obligatory and legitimate payments are unconditional and incumbent on all Member States. In fact, individual Member States have no reason to withhold or threaten to withhold contributions to the United Nations, as each Member State has the opportunity to present and argue its case for or against any United Nations activity. Each Member State also has the chance to scrutinize the budgetary implications of each decision and consequently to negotiate a consensus with other Member States as is the practice for all budgetary matters. But this is by now a tired mantra. In order to encourage timely payments, Member States should consider proposals already being discussed in United Nations circles, such as a system of charging interest on late payments, though with due consideration for the difficult situations of the least developed countries. We would also like to suggest that Member States use the symbolic event of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations to clear their arrears and start with a clean slate financially. Member States could undertake a joint commitment to pay up all their outstanding contributions to the United Nations before this symbolic day in 1995. The Security Council has a particularly critical role in the United Nations. The Charter confers upon it the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. As spelt out in the Charter, the membership dues of a State Member of the United Nations are one of the few and most basic of the obligations of United Nations membership. Now, if a permanent member of the Security Council cannot even meet this basic obligation, how can it meet the heavy and serious responsibility of maintaining international peace and security on behalf of all Member States? We must establish the principle that the permanent members of the Security Council, with their privileged positions, should not be in arrears. They should in fact set an example for the rest of the United Nations membership in meeting their financial obligations. For the same reason, permanent members must continue to bear special responsibilities in the financing of peace-keeping. I hope Member States will consider our proposals seriously. I believe these proposals can lead to concrete results in improving the financial situation of the United Nations and even lay the basis for the United Nations better to manage the difficult challenges of this new era. Singapore is fully committed to working together with the Secretary-General and Member States to resolve the financial crisis of the United Nations. It is expected that, with the rising costs for peace- keeping operations, one of the most heated arguments in the years ahead will be the apportionment of peace- keeping expenses among Member States. Singapore will strive, together with other Member States, to work out objective political and economic criteria for improving the scale. It is clear that any ad hoc, arbitrary or voluntary measures in this regard will have little chance of success given the fact that this is a highly sensitive issue. There must be a process of debate and discussion, however protracted it may be, before we can arrive at a consensus on a new scale. Singapore, for its part, is ready to pay more in peace-keeping expenses provided, first, that this is the outcome of an overall reform of the peace-keeping scale and, secondly, that the problem of those who are in arrears is seriously addressed. We have come a long way since the founding of the United Nations 49 years ago. It is now time for us to rededicate ourselves to the goal of creating a better world, as envisaged by our Charter. What better time than now, on the eve of our fiftieth anniversary, for us to place the United Nations on a sound financial footing and lay the foundation for it to embark on its programmes and activities for the next 50 years? As we prepare to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, the memory of the cold war is fading rapidly from our minds. We recall the nostalgia with which we heralded the end of the era and the concomitant universal aspirations to a world of peace and prosperity. The world has witnessed the triumph of democracy in several areas and the resolution of conflicts that had originated in a war maintained by the earlier East-West confrontation. However, the images of violence, famine and destruction that flicker daily on our television screens suggest some urgency for the world community to attempt to put an end to the violence and the senseless destruction of human lives. It is against this backdrop, Sir, that we welcome someone with your wide diplomatic experience and wisdom as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I am confident that you will make an important contribution to the further success of our deliberations on the vital and major issues of our time. Your predecessor, our Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and West Indian brother Ambassador Samuel R. Insanally, has established a superb record of achievements, on which I would like to congratulate him warmly. At this juncture in the history of the United Nations, our Organization is fortunate to have a Secretary-General like Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, a person eminently suited by training and disposition to guide the membership of this body towards a new era of peace and prosperity that we hope will emerge from the debris of the cold war. My delegation takes this opportunity to welcome the new South Africa into our midst as an equal Member of the Organization, ready to participate in all its activities in accordance with the purposes and the principles of the United Nations Charter. We now join the courageous people of South Africa as they celebrate with happiness and pride their victory over the struggle of the century: the fight against apartheid. At long last they have rid themselves of the shackles of that abominable crime and have finally removed the greatest blemish from the continent of Africa. We congratulate Mr. Nelson Mandela and salute his determined march from prison to President. He symbolizes the aspirations of the South African people and the values of non-racialism, democracy and peace. Indeed, this is a lesson in perseverance and faith in the human spirit. The voice of the international community was clearly heard as it worked to mobilize public opinion against the injustice of apartheid, and we are now greatly relieved that the question of its elimination will finally be removed from the agenda of succeeding session of the General Assembly. My delegation hailed the historic Agreement on mutual recognition between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, which was signed on 13 September 1993 in Washington, D.C. We also welcomed the historic breakthrough that gave impetus to an overall Arab-lsraeli settlement when Prime Minister Yitzak Rabin and Jordan’s King Hussein met in Washington last July and laid the foundation for the establishment of a peace treaty between the two countries. The international community must also be heartened by the establishment of diplomatic relations between Israel and Morocco and by an apparent thaw in relations between Israel and Syria. We are all looking forward with great anticipation to the commencement of negotiations between the two Governments. It is our hope that these initiatives signal the beginning of the end of one of the longest standing and most intractable conflicts of our time and that they herald an era of peace, security and political stability in the Middle East. The recent peace overtures in the Middle East are yet another demonstration of the dramatic changes in international relations that have taken place since the collapse of communism and the end of the cold war. In this context my Government is optimistic that the still- unresolved major international political issues will be similarly settled. I refer in particular to the problem of North and South Korea and that of the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China in Taiwan. It is the view of the delegation of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines that the time has come when serious consideration should be given the eligibility of the Republic of China in Taiwan to become a Member of the United Nations. That is why my Government, in association with other like-minded countries, requested the Secretary-General to include an item on the agenda of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly entitled “Consideration of the exceptional situation of the Republic of China in Taiwan in the international context, based on the principle of universality and in accordance with the established model of parallel representation of divided countries at the United Nations.” We trust that this item will soon secure a place on the agenda of the General Assembly and that when it does every Member State of this noble institution will give its full support to this initiative. We cannot preach about the universality of the United Nations while at the same time we ignore the aspirations of over 20 million people in the Republic of China on Taiwan. Certain present-day international political trends, as I mentioned earlier, give us renewed encouragement and hope of relations being conducted between and within States in accordance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. This, however, does not mean that the world is now free from tension and international disputes. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a persistent crisis which continues to shock us all. Efforts made to date by the international community to halt the aggression by Serbia and Montenegro and to settle the crisis by peaceful means have been in vain. The Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines regrets that the recent proposals for a political settlement of the conflict have been rejected by the Bosnian Serbs. That rejection carries with it the danger of the continuation and even grave escalation of the conflict. We urge the Bosnian Serbs to accept the proposals of the Contact Group and to resolve their remaining differences in the spirit of peaceful negotiation and reconciliation, thus taking irreversible steps towards a just and durable peace in Bosnia. As a country blessed with freedom and the absence of racial and religious bigotry, we will always raise our voice against any form of “ethnic cleansing”. We also look forward to the reunification of Cyprus and to the departure of foreign occupation troops from all countries. The vicious cycle of starvation, violence, the breakdown of central authority, and endless conflicts continues to bedevil in varying ways the situation in Somalia, Zaire, Angola, Liberia, Mozambique, Burundi and Rwanda. We call upon the United Nations to continue its struggle to establish peace in these areas. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines places a high value on its relations with the Americas since we are part of the same hemisphere. We share the same burning desire for meaningful economic, political and social development. Over the past decade there has been a noticeable and commendable trend towards democratic rule. The Convention establishing the Association of Caribbean States, which was signed at Cartagena on 24 July 1994, represents an achievement in the areas of 2 economic cooperation and regional integration, with the ultimate objective of launching new opportunities for the pursuit of collective initiatives by 40 Latin American and Caribbean States, comprising some 200 million people and united by the waters of the Caribbean. The further strengthening of the inter-American system remains a major objective of the Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. My delegation is very pleased that the use of force was averted in Haiti and that, at long last, democracy and constitutional legitimacy will be returned to that land. We are equally delighted to learn that General Cedras has decided to relinquish power, thus paving the way for the return of exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. My delegation wishes to commend President Clinton for the leadership and determination he has shown in support of the international community’s effort to restore democracy to Haiti and hope and dignity to the Haitian people. The Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines will continue to be an active participant in all arrangements aimed at ensuring the safe return of President Aristide and in the eventual rebuilding process. Among the goals that the founding fathers of the United Nations set for the Organization were promoting “social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom” and recognizing development as an inalienable right of mankind. Regrettably, third-world countries like Saint Vincent and the Grenadines feel very strongly that this goal has so far been very elusive. With the end of the cold war and the relative success of the United Nations in its peace- keeping, peacemaking and peace-enforcement roles, the international community must now attempt to grapple more seriously with the developmental problems faced by third- world countries. If countries like Saint Vincent and the Grenadines are to survive in this harsh world environment, careful and urgent consideration must be given by the international community to the following measures: first, revitalizing growth in developed countries; secondly, liberalizing trade, especially to give market access to the products of developing countries; thirdly, reducing debt and the debt- service burden; fourthly, reversing the deteriorating marketing situation for the primary products of developing countries; fifthly, increasing official development assistance and humanitarian aid; and sixthly, creating a sensitivity to the reduction in net capital flows from bilateral and multilateral sources, as well as to the negative consequences of the graduation of some countries, such as ours, from concessionary funding arrangements of a number of multilateral institutions. The changing world environment dictates the need for the revitalization and restructuring of the various organs of the United Nations. At the last session of the General Assembly Saint Vincent and the Grenadines called for enlargement of the membership of the Security Council to reflect the current global reality. Today we repeat that call. My Government attaches very high priority to revitalizing and strengthening the role of the United Nations in the promotion of international cooperation for economic and social development. We share the view that the United Nations should be encouraged to develop its full potential in the area of international economic cooperation and should be endowed with the necessary resources to enable it to contribute to solving the serious economic and social problems facing developing countries in their efforts to achieve sustained economic growth and development. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines hopes that the Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development, together with the conclusions of, and the follow-up to, the Rio Conference and the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which was held in Barbados, as well as summits and conferences such as the International Conference on Population and Development, the World Summit for Social Development, the Fourth World Conference on Women and the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, will all contribute to better understanding of the problems faced by developing countries and assist the evolution of a global consensus and the mobilization of adequate resources to address these problems effectively. We do not, however, support the creation of new bureaucracies. There are already enough institutions. What we need are better terms and a speedier reaction to established needs. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines continues to be plagued by the modern-day problem of the illicit production, trafficking and consumption of drugs and psychotropic substances. This scourge poses a serious 3 threat to the well-being of our people and threatens to destroy the social and moral fabric of our communities. The archipelagic nature of our State, its many bays and cays and the mountainous terrain and rich alluvial soil of mainland Saint Vincent are characteristics that attract many visitors to our shores and provide scarce foreign exchange to assist us in the development of our country. These very features, however, operate against us in our war against the illicit production of drugs and their distribution by drug barons and their associates. Due to our limited resources, we are unable to police and control our borders and coastlines effectively. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines supports every single measure taken by the United Nations to cope with this serious problem, and calls for continued efforts to eliminate this global scourge. At the local level, we have been taking forceful steps to confront this evil — pursuing a dynamic drug-abuse- prevention drive and at the same time launching major administrative, legislative and judicial initiatives against the marketing and trafficking of drugs. My country has viewed with great interest the measures taken by the Secretary-General to revitalize the United Nations so that it is better prepared to attain the objectives of the Charter. In particular, I wish to emphasize the active peace-keeping role of the Organization in the resolution of conflicts that originated before the end of the cold war and of new tensions emerging in hot spots around the world. The peace-keeping forces operating under the United Nations flag perform a fundamental role by paving the way to dialogue and negotiation, thus preventing prolonged confrontations. We wholeheartedly support this major peace-keeping, peacemaking and peace-enforcing thrust of the United Nations. However, we feel that the criteria used in financing the forces involved must be re-examined. The cost of such operations is beginning to prove quite burdensome for both the Organization and its Member States, especially those, like Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, with a limited resource base. We look forward to efforts to alleviate the financial burden placed on small developing States by the frequent deployment of such operations. Today, as we prepare to mark an important milestone in the history of the United Nations, and as we approach the beginning of the twenty-first century, we look forward to a world where democracy, peace, sustainable development and human welfare are be available to all. Mankind has spent almost half a century in pursuit of these goals. Let us continue the struggle and never tire in its pursuit. I congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his election as President of the General Assembly at the forty-ninth session. We are particularly gratified that an eminent son of Africa is leading the Assembly’s deliberations this year. We offer our thanks to his predecessor, Ambassador Insanally, who presided over a year of considerable activity in the General Assembly with great aplomb and finesse. The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, will be completing three years in office. We wish him well as he continues to lead the United Nations. We have already welcomed the new South Africa to the United Nations. South Africa today is a reminder of the triumph of the principle of equality of man - a triumph in which the United Nations played a major role. The world community must commit itself to ensuring that this principle is implemented for all time to come. All efforts should be made for the development of South Africa. Forty-nine years ago a world tired of war declared that at this foundry of the United Nations it would beat its swords into ploughshares. Instead, we have only produced words, while the swords have not disappeared. The words may be important, but unfortunately they have remained mere words. We seem to be stepping into a new world order in a gaping moral void, with no credible promise of peace nor of a nonviolent world. And we are approaching 1995: the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations; the fortieth anniversary of Panchsheel - the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence; the Year of Tolerance, which is being celebrated by the United Nations; and the one hundred and twenty-fifth birthday of the apostle of 13 peace and moral force, Mahatma Gandhi, whose message only gains in relevance year after year. Global security today demands a holistic approach involving the promotion of economic and social development; the protection of human rights; the promotion of harmony and social cohesion in multi-racial and multi-ethnic societies; the combating of terrorism, drug-trafficking and clandestine traffic in armaments; and the enhancing of the capacity of the United Nations, within the framework of its Charter, to prevent conflicts, preserve peace and alleviate suffering. The new agenda of the United Nations must be shaped on the basis of this approach, giving peace and development equal priority and treatment. The General Assembly, with its universal participation and comprehensive mandate, should project such a holistic vision and revitalize that vision into action. The Secretary-General’s Agendas have reminded us of what we should focus on, namely, disarmament, development and peace. I put them in that order because true peace can only follow disarmament and development. The cold war was not war, yet certainly not peace. In its wake, we have seen how, most frighteningly, poverty, disease and a host of miseries affect the cause of peace. They had been there all the time, but were not seen by the jaundiced eye of the cold war. In the new post-cold-war context, therefore, the nexus of disarmament and development with peace becomes crystal clear - indeed inescapably clear. We have to start with disarmament. The slaughter in Rwanda has taken place during the forty-ninth anniversary of the devastation of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. For almost 50 years, we have lived in fear of general and complete extinction instead of global and complete disarmament. Those who had biological and chemical weapons have given them up under universally binding commitments. We must now go one logical step further and exorcise the greatest evil of all, namely, the weapons of mass destruction. We have had global discussions on nuclear disarmament before, but now that the cold war, which spawned these weapons, is over, and the previous adversaries have been drawn into a partnership for peace, this is surely the time to agree - in regimes which are global, comprehensive, verifiable and non-discriminatory - on steps to make the world a safer place. Another opportunity will arise when the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) comes up for review next April. We hope that States Parties will use that occasion to refashion the Treaty into a real instrument for global disarmament. Quite apart from the NPT, it is essential that we examine a detailed implementation process of total and global disarmament, which has been accepted in principle, though in words only thus far. Last June in Cairo, the Foreign Ministers of the non- aligned countries, at India’s suggestion, proposed that a fourth special session on disarmament be convened. We think the time and the circumstances are right for the General Assembly to plan for this special session for next year, or as soon as possible. But disarmament alone will be inadequate. We are rushing towards another precipice, where the disparities in wealth between nations would trigger violent revolution within States. A global convulsion will come if we continue to disregard the development imperative. The problems of development are global problems and must be addressed by all of us. We must set a substantive agenda for development, commit ourselves to it and implement it. The World Trade Organization, which should soon come into being, must promote what we expected but did not quite achieve so far in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) - non-discrimination, consensus and transparency in the international trade regime. We hope that the multilateral trade negotiations will stimulate economic growth in our countries and in the world economy. It will not if the carefully negotiated consensus, to which we committed ourselves at Marrakesh, is destroyed by the introduction of new conditionalities. Faith in the multilateral system will be shaken if countries use their trading strength and bilateral pressures to weaken and distort agreements to which they have just become parties. The themes of the World Summit for Social Development focus on the critical issues of poverty eradication together with social integration and the need to increase avenues for productive employment, without which we will not have the broad-based, self-sustaining social and economic development that is the only guarantor of peace and security. If the Summit is to succeed, we must agree upon the commitments for additional resources dedicated to national programmes around the world. We should not be sidetracked from this goal by new concepts which do not command consensus, and do not address the fundamental needs of development. 14 The United Nations must also re-order its priorities so as to counter several disturbing centrifugal trends which we see emerging. What the world needs is support for the nation-State system on which the United Nations was built. In June this year, Prime Minister Narasimha Rao and President Yeltsin, representing two of the largest pluralistic nations in the world, issued the Moscow Declaration on the Protection of the Interests of Pluralistic States. In this Declaration, which has been circulated as a document of the General Assembly, Russia and India have put forward principles which, if acted upon, will, we think, promote greater harmony in the world. Against this background, there are a few questions for the Assembly to consider. For the 45 years of the cold war, the Security Council was forced into immobility, but when the cold war ended, it found itself shouldering a stupendous task. As if to make up for years of inactivity, it has rushed into many areas. We must ponder the consequences of the decisions taken over the last few years, which have on occasion sent United Nations peace-keepers in pursuit of objectives whose nexus with peace is rather tenuous. New doctrines justify armed United Nations intervention under circumstances that are not quite defined - not yet at any rate. These initiatives are well meaning but they do not seem to address the problems from the right end. The ultimate human right is the right to live - the right to food and shelter without which life is impossible. The poverty of many nations makes this a problem to which there are no easy answers. If there are circumstances which justify armed multilateral intervention, by the same logic should not the United Nations have the right to enforce the equitable sharing of resources among nations? The Non-aligned Movement, at the meeting of its Foreign Ministers in Cairo this year, suggested some guiding principles for peace-keeping operations of enduring significance. All means for the peaceful settlement of disputes chosen by the conflicting parties should be exhausted before coercive measures are considered. Peace-keeping operations should strictly adhere to the principles of the Charter, in particular the principles of full respect for the sovereignty of States, their territorial integrity and non-intervention in their internal affairs. Peace-keeping operations should be considered only at the request of the Member States involved. The resources for peace-keeping activities should not be at the expense of resources for development activities of the United Nations. There should be no hesitation in ending those operations which have been overtaken by events or become inconsistent with their mandates. It is also important to ensure that the distinction between peace-keeping operations and other activities of the United Nations, including humanitarian assistance, is maintained at all times. While coordination between these activities at the field level is important, their integration could irreversibly alter the basic purposes of these distinct activities and detract from their effectiveness. Prudence must be exercised in the use of regional organizations in peace-keeping operations. It is the capacity of the United Nations for peace-keeping that must be strengthened. We have responded positively to the Secretary- General’s appeal for the strengthening of the United Nations capacity for peace-keeping by designating a brigade for the stand-by arrangements that are being put in place. It is true that the work of the Security Council and its role in the United Nations are of the greatest importance. There is therefore all the more reason that the Council should be representative of the international community and have maximum legitimacy. The United Nations needs a Council that is effective, but it cannot be effective if the impression grows that it represents entrenched privileges and that its agenda could vary from those of the general membership. The democracy and good governance which are urged upon all States cannot stop at the gates of the United Nations. The present-day composition of the Security Council reflects the power balance of the immediate post-war period. Since then, the membership of the world body has increased many times over. There is also a greater diffusion of power. To give the Council’s actions greater legitimacy, moral authority and political effectiveness, it is imperative to expand the membership of the Council. Developing countries must be included in the category of permanent members to reflect the universal character of the world body. The number of non-permanent seats must also be increased to give Member States greater opportunity for participation in the work of the Council. A selective, piecemeal expansion of the number of permanent members would not be prudent. The Security Council is not a corporate board, where equity shares determine the voting power, nor can it be likened to the Bretton Woods institutions, which reflect the wealth of nations. The United Nations is based on the principle of 15 the sovereign equality of nations. Its primary objective remains the maintenance of international peace and security. These elements must find expression in the composition of the Council, which must be able to address the challenges of the twenty-first century. Durability and resilience, rather than expediency, should determine the time frame of any expansion. On the basis of any criteria - population, size of economy, contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security and to peace-keeping or future potential - India deserves to be a permanent member of the Security Council. The working methods of the Security Council must be reformed to enhance transparency and to express the democratic aspirations of the vast majority of Member States. We hope that the Open-ended Working Group on the question of increase in the membership of the Security Council will duly reflect on these issues in its deliberations next year. Human rights are the new vogue. The profoundly humanistic traditions of the Indian civilization, with its emphasis on tolerance, harmony, non-violence and the inviolability of the individual, are in-built in our ethos. Several centuries back, an Indian thinker wrote: 'Man is above everything else. Man is the highest truth. There is nothing above man.' All human rights are sacrosanct in India, guaranteed by a secular Constitution, an independent judiciary, a free press, and public opinion vigorously expressed. India’s commitment to the promotion and protection of human rights has now received another institutional impetus with the establishment of our National Human Rights Commission, which has begun to function effectively, with its findings published in its annual report. In keeping with our policy of transparency we maintain a sustained dialogue with important non-governmental organizations, which includes affording greater access to them. We have also invited the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to visit India. It is true that much remains to be done on a worldwide basis to further international cooperation to promote and protect human rights. But the problem must be seen in perspective. In India, for instance, we grapple with the problems of development for 900 million people; in the north-west and in the north-east we face brutal terrorist movements, often supported from abroad, which have killed thousands of innocents, made refugees of hundreds of thousands within India, and threatened our sovereignty and territorial integrity. We will face these problems and defeat them. We welcome the support and advice of friends abroad, but we cannot accept the position that all human rights are a privilege of the terrorists. The rights of innocent and unarmed citizens must be protected. We urge that the question of human rights should not be made into a politically motivated slogan insensitive to the rights of those citizens. Since the toxin of terrorism is deliberately being spread by some countries - and none of us is immune - the international community must come together to defend itself. Terrorism is fast becoming a means, if not a weapon, of mass destruction. Many countries have suffered and many more could be affected. Terrorists have killed far more people in the last decades than the chemical and biological weapons which we have agreed to ban and destroy. Just as the international community decided that a convention was needed to outlaw those weapons, so it must urgently negotiate a convention to counter and eradicate terrorism. We urge the General Assembly to initiate serious thinking on this subject. The international community must also provide the necessary succour to the victims of terrorism, whose numbers are swelling by the day. The closing years of the twentieth century will see human society poised at a critical juncture as regards the future. Will the end of the cold war mark the beginnings of a new, more stable global order, of freedom and well-being growing on the soil of cooperation, consensus and mutual respect, or will the world instead revert bit by bit to the mind-set which breeds anarchy and a return to centrifugalism and destruction, to end up once again in the tyranny of imposition and domination? Should we regress to the system of spheres of influence which has led to so many wars over the last two hundred years? These questions have still not been adequately answered. Many years ago the father of our nation, Mahatma Gandhi, had asked what test should guide human endeavour. His conclusion, after long years of struggling on behalf of India’s many dispossessed millions, was as follows: 'I will give you a talisman. Whenever you are in doubt, or when the self becomes too much with you, apply the following test: Recall the face of the poorest and the weakest man whom you may have seen, and ask yourself if the step you contemplate is 16 going to be of any use to him. Will he gain anything by it? Will it restore him to a control over his own life and destiny?' If the protection afforded to its weak, its most dispossessed, people is the measure of community’s worth, as indeed it must be, then the millions of refugees, and the conflict, poverty, hunger and deprivation that afflict so many regions of the world today bear stark testimony to the loss of some vital ethical underpinning. If the world today is to redeem a future that seems increasingly mortgaged to greed and hatred, we must recall once again that it is the nobility of our means, and the ends we pursue, that determine our rewards. Our welfare will be determined only in accordance with the values and principles we abide by. As Mahatma Gandhi and sages before have taught and practised, truthfulness, charity, compassion, non-violence and treating others as we would wish ourselves to be treated are the values that really stand the test of time. These are the values to be inculcated in our great global Organization, the United Nations, to which we are all committed. On behalf of the Government and people of Venezuela, I wish to congratulate you, Sir, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I am confident that under your guidance the Assembly will at this important session contribute to progress in the carrying out of the important task with which the Organization is charged - the constant quest for peace. I also take pleasure in paying tribute to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General, whose intelligent and expert leadership have given the world fresh hope, as we are about to enter a new millennium, so that we may be optimistic about the future, even though there are still grounds for concern. The twentieth century, which is drawing to a close, has witnessed momentous events for mankind. Two world wars, which cost an enormous number of human lives and immense physical, economic and cultural losses, demonstrated the extent to which man is capable of destruction - above all, self-destruction. The world’s political map has been changed many times, with predictable consequences. Science and technology have made remarkable progress. The discovery of antibiotics has provided undreamt-of opportunities for surgery. Surgeons have 6 converted the human body into a fruitful field for operations capable of correcting natural defects and injuries arising from circumstances prevailing in an increasingly complex society. Life expectancy has risen steadily, and terrible endemic diseases that used to claim countless victims have vanished almost completely. Communications have been the greatest marvel of this century. The twentieth century has been the era of radio broadcasting and television. Important events occurring in any part of the world are immediately known in the most distant regions. The fax has supplanted the mails and improved on the telegram and the telex. Communications are the principal reason why the inhabitants of this planet are gradually recognizing their role as members of a single, vast community of nations. Of necessity, institutions have endeavoured to keep in step with the rapid and unremitting march of events. Both internal and international juridical norms are subject to constant change. Fundamental concepts of nationality and sovereignty are being reconsidered, and formulas are being sought so that inalienable and traditional rights may exist in harmony with the requirements of the supranational community. Amongst these values are the self- determination of nations and non-intervention, as laid down in the Preamble to our Constitution. Accordingly, Venezuela has been and remains permanently disposed to promoting the peaceful spread of democracy to every nation on Earth, and especially to those of our continent. We have consequently supported efforts aimed at reintroducing a fully democratic system in those Latin American countries where it is not at present established. Their situation is inevitably of deep concern to us by reason of history and natural affinities. For the same reason, though, Venezuela did not support military intervention in Haiti, despite the fact that the United Nations has lent it multilateral and institutional support. At the same time, regional integration is expanding, with profound effect on the exercise of rights within every country. This process is rapidly leading to hemispheric and universal integration. For Latin Americans, the bicentennial of the birth of Antonio José de Sucre, the young man who consolidated our independence at the battle of Ayacucho, will provide an opportunity to reassert the unbreakable links of our solidarity. As we see it, the objective of the forthcoming meeting of Heads of State or Government, convened by the President of the United States, will be the encouragement of a genuinely democratic system in the American continent and throughout the world. It is our hope in this regard that there will be a commitment to fight without quarter against poverty and an effective agreement to stamp out corruption. The United Nations has managed to avoid most of the obstacles that caused the failure of its immediate predecessor, the League of Nations. Next year it will celebrate its first 50 years of existence: a time in which, amidst contradictions and disappointments, it has provided a unique forum for constant dialogue, in every language and in the most contrasting tones. It has made uninterrupted progress and shown a willingness to accept the structural changes that changing times have imposed. For this reason we are awaiting further changes, such as the expansion of permanent representation on the Security Council to Latin America by granting Brazil permanent membership. Latin America has every right to this by virtue of its spiritual strength and its constant espousal of liberty and international friendship. However, despite all the progress achieved, it is undeniable that we are still a very long way from having established a stable, universal peace or a harmonious coexistence amongst nations. Nor have we developed standards of living that permit all social strata in the various continents to enjoy a fitting human existence, with a satisfactory world-wide level of equity in social relations. The struggle for human rights has spread significantly, and international treaties have been signed to ensure that protection of such rights transcends all borders. But the basic human right to life itself, the right to work and the right to have enough to eat for healthy living are far from having been secured for a considerable part of mankind. The momentous International Conference on Population and Development, recently held in Cairo, seemed to be based on the assumption that it is impossible to guarantee development interpreted as participation by the whole human being and by all human beings in economic and social processes - if the population continues to increase. This is because many countries have not ensured, as is essential, that everyone who is born will have the means to enjoy a decent existence. In my country, at the beginning of the century, a time of manifest poverty and backwardness, there was a saying that every child was born with an arepa under the arm. 'Arepa' is a bread made of maize and is a popular staple of the daily diet. This saying has now dropped out of popular usage. 7 In spite of the dramatic repercussions of the events following the destruction of the Berlin Wall, peace has not yet been achieved. Just as we were ready to thrill with emotion at the arrival of universal peace, the Gulf War awakened us from that dream. Recent conflicts in the former Yugoslavia and in Rwanda, two countries so fundamentally different one from the other, have stirred up vestiges of barbarism that had supposedly disappeared for ever. Religious conflicts and ethnic antagonisms, thought to have been overcome once and for all, have re-emerged with unbelievable bitterness. Events recall the Biblical commentary of the Peruvian Victor Andrés Belaunde, an illustrious Latin American, greatly appreciated in the United Nations, who said that human beings bear the weight of a curse implicitly imposed by God when He cast them out of the Garden of Eden: Since they refused to be governed by God, they would have to govern themselves. The United Nations faces a constant challenge: the quest for peace. It is clear that peace will not be achieved simply through political discussion or diplomatic negotiation, still less through the mere use of force. It has often been said by knowledgeable speakers that peace is the fruit of justice: that is, without some degree of justice, peace is unattainable. That was understood by the negotiators at Versailles at the end of the First World War when they included in their Peace Treaty a lengthy clause devoted to the International Labour Organization and inspired by the notion of social justice. Undoubtedly, however, the need for justice goes far beyond international conventions and recommendations with regard to labour, and meeting that need is becoming a matter of increasing urgency. The rapid process of globalization we are witnessing is unstoppable and unavoidable. The steps being taken in this direction are dictated by the state of today’s world and the demands of the immediate and mid-term future. The conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the creation of the World Trade Organization represent undeniable progress for mankind. The bilateral and multilateral agreements reached on all continents are signs of progress and stimulate the creation and exchange of wealth. It is nevertheless essential to introduce into relations between States instruments that will prevent commercial interchange from becoming an economic war to the death. It is inappropriate to transfer to social relations the concept of the struggle for existence in the sense that nature itself, through this struggle, will automatically ensure the survival of the fittest - in other words, the absolute predominance of the strongest and the disappearance of the weakest. The acceptance of such an idea would be a crime against humanity. It must be recognized that the United Nations and its important subsidiary bodies have made great efforts to alleviate the sufferings and shortages of those sectors of humanity where the standard of living is below what is deemed humanely indispensable. It is encouraging to note that institutions directly related to the United Nations such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund recognize that the fight against poverty must be a top priority. It is not, however, enough to give humanitarian assistance to the neediest. It is essential to afford nations the conditions they require to enable all their inhabitants to compete efficiently, to ensure their healthy survival and to encourage their progress. It is true that economic-liberalization measures in less-developed countries have produced positive macroeconomic results, but in some countries that point with satisfaction to the tremendous economic progress they have achieved one can note, at the same time, a growing concern about that portion of the population that is living in poverty and, even more distressing, in critical and even extreme poverty. I share the aspiration voiced by the President of Colombia to a new model of development for our countries, for an 'alternative model,' as he put it when addressing the Assembly. He proposed the establishment of 'a new and more productive citizen in the economy, a citizen who participates to a greater degree in politics and who is more supportive in the social sphere.' (Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Plenary Meetings, 5th meeting, [p. 27]) In recent years my country, Venezuela, has faced a difficult economic situation and disquieting social circumstances. Undeniably, the blame lies largely with us. Grievous mistakes in running the country and the poisonous plague of corruption are the principal causes of the acute crisis we are experiencing, but external factors have also played a part. I am not here to pronounce judgement on the past. As I have pledged to my compatriots, I must find ways of restoring the confidence that is indispensable if coming generations are to be able, with training and hard work, to avail themselves of the opportunities the country has to offer. Serious institutional problems - such as the legal proceedings 8 against two former Presidents of the Republic, one of whom was suspended from office while still President - have been handled within the legal system with strict adherence to the Constitution. The people’s conduct has been truly exemplary. The natural resources with which providence has endowed us and the favourable prospects guaranteed by our human resource, our people, who have always demonstrated intelligence, creative audacity and courage in times of danger, inspire us with optimism. We realize that we must seek within ourselves the essential elements that will enable us to win the struggle for development to which we are so seriously committed. We have put forward an economic stabilization and recovery programme that has been in large part accepted. It lays out a feasible and clearly defined course that will ultimately lead to a solution of the crisis. However, we feel that we are in duty bound to explain to international forums, and most particularly to this world forum, the need for favourable prospects to open up that can help us to avoid exerting our efforts in vain and ensure instead that they will be successful and will contribute to a better future for mankind. For example, when considering the need to strengthen trade relations throughout the world we must call for guaranteed access to the markets of the developed countries, where mechanisms are sometimes in place that are skillfully used to exclude our competition. We agree with the need for environmental protection for the benefit of the world’s inhabitants, and we are certainly ready to contribute to that goal. However, we must make the point that on more than one occasion the ecological struggle for a healthy environment has been hypocritically used as a way to prevent developing countries from gaining access to the markets of wealthy nations. We further believe that transfer of technology must be wide ranging and genuine, for if it is not the gap between us and the developed countries, which increases every year, will ultimately become impossible to bridge and will lead to a sharp and bitter rift between two sectors of mankind, with unforeseeable but undoubtedly disastrous consequences. Access to capital is a requirement that is becoming ever more acute as technological advances make productive processes more capital- and less labour-intensive. At the same time, there must be fair payment for the raw materials that represent the principal contribution of the underdeveloped countries to international trade but that are constantly losing their relevance in end products. Consequently, access to capital must be arranged on equitable terms to protect the interests of producers, who are often obliged to accept conditions that are little more than adhesion contracts. This struggle to obtain better prices for raw materials, which are almost invariably subject to conditions imposed by consumer countries without any real participation by the producers, and the establishment of reasonable terms for international loans are part of the struggle for justice and an integral part of the struggle for peace. The external-debt problem of the developing countries is still far from being solved. It is true that there have been negotiations on restructuring and that they have temporarily alleviated the dreadful burden that problem represents for the debtor countries, but as the repayment deadlines fall due the burden for those in debt becomes harder to bear with the passing of every year. To cite a concrete example: in my country next year’s debt servicing payments will amount to 35 per cent of the national budget, and in coming years the situation will become even more acute. The drop in the price of our main export has made it very difficult to meet the basic needs of our population. We have never given any thought to disavowing our obligations. We are resolved to meet them, but we consider that this subject must be placed on international agendas and that a search must begin for a broad solution that will open up new horizons of justice and peace. I believe that as we approach the beginning of the second half of the United Nations first century the fundamental aim of the United Nations must be the search for justice in relations among peoples. Social justice has been one of the most important achievements of this twentieth century that is now drawing to a close. This demands of every individual and every group whatever is required for the common good. Above and beyond the numerical equality of commutative justice, it also requires of all of us that we make a contribution to the community of nations in proportion to our individual possibilities. This concept has still not gained acceptance in the international field. It is true that there have been some minor concessions to the most needy countries but there is a lack of any clear course towards the achievement of universal well-being. It is not only States that should be the agents. Once the door was opened by the International Labour Organization (ILO), international organizations also provided access for unofficial bodies. The large transnational corporations which have and exercise real power must become involved in the management of programmes that will seek peace through justice; economic justice in so far as it 9 concerns them; and respect for the sovereignty of both large and small States. Those of us who love freedom; those of us who have struggled to achieve it, regardless of cost and sacrifice; those of us who consider democracy and respect for human rights as priority objectives; those of us who sincerely yearn for friendship and fruitful understanding among all nations; those of us who believe in dialogue and resolutely support the endeavours of the United Nations to encourage it - all of us desire to see the United Nations displaying unflinching determination that the search for justice - and I shall never tire of repeating this - must play a key role in the building of peace. If peace is our goal let us strive to make justice its foundation. In this way we shall realize the ideal which our Liberator, Simon Bolivar, visualized as the most important goal of the best system of government: 'the greatest possible degree of happiness', in other words, happiness for all. At the outset, I should like to extend my sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, and to the newly elected members of the Bureau. Your outstanding personal and professional qualities are, I am sure, a guarantee of the success of our work. I also take this occasion to pay a tribute to your predecessor on the podium, Mr. Samuel Insanally, who, often in difficult circumstances, fulfilled his mandate expertly and efficiently. For instance, the opportunity he gave us freely to express our opinions and ideas on several important problems of our time, such as that of development, was a significant initiative that will certainly 5 have a positive impact on all our further thinking and work on these questions. I turn now to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to thank him warmly for his efforts in undertaking the very complex and sensitive missions entrusted to him by the General Assembly and the Security Council over the past months. Given that, in many respects, the state of the world continues to deteriorate, these efforts have been all the more worthy. While some conflicts were born or rekindled, others - often long- standing, but no less virulent - have become worse or have expanded. Brutality and violence, sometimes interethnic, have all too often exploded, and no real means have existed or been available to redress their effects or the harm they have caused. While we have been heartened by certain encouraging developments in South Africa - which we welcome back to democratic life - or in the Middle East, many potential conflicts remain and others have already erupted or are about to do so. Entire peoples are still under the yoke of dictatorship. The suffering and barbarity entailed are all the more vicious and painful because the methods of repression have kept pace with scientific and technical advances. The crimes of the highest civilization go hand in hand with the crimes of the highest barbarity. More than ever before, women, children, the elderly and the weakest and most vulnerable are threatened and victimized. When peace collapses - and the more fragile it is the more violent is its collapse - war quickly becomes total, and civilian populations, especially the poorest, are rarely spared. The international community, pained and overwhelmed, can only resort, in desperation, to humanitarian assistance. Bosnia and Herzegovina and Rwanda are the most striking examples of this. Most often, this humanitarian assistance comes in response to tragic situations and complex political circumstances that make it difficult to deliver and, despite all the haste and the efforts made, render its benefits uncertain. Bearing in mind the decisions taken by the Security Council in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a view to protecting the civilian populations, and inspired by the courageous and generous initiative recently undertaken by France in Rwanda with the support of Africa and the United Nations, should not the international community adopt a convention-based instrument that would meet this challenge? For such challenges could face it again in the future. Through such an instrument, States parties would undertake in advance to authorize in case of a conflict the establishment of protection and security areas reserved for defenceless children, women and the elderly. The boundaries of these zones would, of course, need to be clearly established, with the agreement of the State or States concerned. Special access routes to such areas - neutralized airports, roads and railroads - would be provided for in this treaty in order to ensure the delivery of humanitarian assistance. The protection and functioning of these areas would have to be guaranteed by unarmed agents, preferably volunteers, under the auspices and responsibility of the United Nations, and they would wear white helmets or have some other distinctive insignia, as has already been suggested. The Fourth Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949 - which envisaged cordons sanitaires and security zones, without however making them mandatory - could serve as a model to a great extent when we consider this matter. Does not protection for the most vulnerable sectors of the non-combatant population - children, women and the elderly - deserve true international commitment? It would be particularly significant and symbolic if, on the occasion of its fiftieth anniversary, after considering a desirability study drafted by the Secretary-General, our Organization equipped itself with such an instrument, open for signature by all States, providing for the establishment of humanitarian zones in time of conflict. In this way, the High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Children’s Fund and international charitable institutions such as the International Committee of the Red Cross or certain non-governmental organizations recognized for their humanitarian activities would be in a better position rapidly to provide protection, relief and assistance to the civilian populations afflicted by destructive conflicts and deprived of their most fundamental rights. While it is more important than ever for our Organization to secure for itself effective means of protecting innocent civilian populations, we must none the less not neglect future generations. By depleting the natural resources of our Earth and damaging our environment, often out of simple negligence, we are jeopardizing the future and the happiness of our children. The Principality of Monaco is fully aware of this and is striving to assist to the extent within its power in 6 protecting the environment as well as in combating pollution in the oceans and seas. By virtue of its maritime traditions, Monaco has primarily throughout its history stressed the protection of the resources of the marine environment. A large number of initiatives have been taken in this respect on the local, regional and even international levels. The Principality is always ready to step up its efforts and to strengthen international cooperation in these areas. Indeed, in this respect a cooperative undertaking with the United Nations has existed since 1961. Pursuant to an agreement concluded between the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Government of Monaco, an international marine radioactivity laboratory has been operating in the Principality. This laboratory has garnered important and interesting experience in the realm of the measurement of levels of radioactivity in the seas and oceans. With the assistance of the United Nations Environment Programme, it has developed various methods of monitoring the marine environment on a worldwide scale. The proclamation of 1998 as the International Year of the Ocean, as proposed by the Economic and Social Council, would, I am convinced, provide an opportunity to bolster this international cooperation and to once again take stock of the marine environment, after the assessment drawn up in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 at the Earth Summit. In this spirit, we have paid particular attention to certain conclusions of the Fourth United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks whose migrations take place both within and outside exclusive economic zones, which took place here in August. The alarm that was sounded as a result in particular of the report drawn up by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations with respect to the overexploitation of the seas and oceans cannot leave us indifferent. The careful husbandry and use of such precious marine resources and the stepped up struggle to combat marine pollution should continue to be the subject of the most energetic and attentive concern on the part of this Organization. The agreement recently adopted in the context of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea - and we very much welcome the felicitous conclusion of that agreement - demonstrates that with goodwill, the international community can find the right formulae to accommodate the interests of all by preserving the general interest, that is, thinking globally but also acting locally. Only world cooperation can make it possible to solve the grave problems associated with safeguarding our environment and as a result respond to the tremendous challenges that we face now and will increasingly face in the future. With future generations in mind, I feel impelled to speak of the future of our Organization, which next year will celebrate a landmark event: its fiftieth anniversary. Important world conferences - the one on population and development which has just concluded in Cairo, the one on social development scheduled for Copenhagen in March next year, or the Fourth World Conference on Women, which will take place in September 1995 in Beijing - have been and will be opportunities to intensify our thinking and build up our means of intervention in key areas for the future. The work in progress to improve the functioning of the Organization and its structures is encouraging. The Government of the Principality is following these developments with interest. I should be remiss if I concluded my statement without thanking the members of the Security Council and the States that have contributed to peace-keeping operations and without stating that the Principality fully appreciates the sacrifices made. Men and women serving the Organization have lost their lives. We salute them and pay tribute to their memory. We must be watchful - and this is a major responsibility - in order to ensure better protection for these soldiers of peace while remembering their wives, their children and their families. Our action is and should always be designed first and foremost to serve mankind, to alleviate its sufferings and remedy the evils of its plight. Is it not time at last to say, as André Breton wrote, 'for man to go over to the side of man, lock, stock and barrel'. I wish, as I conclude my statement, to express my fervent and sincere wishes for the success of the work of this forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I venture to hope that thanks to general goodwill and mutual understanding we may be able to find practical and effective solutions, in keeping with the spirit and letter of the Charter of the United Nations, to the key issues before us for our consideration. Allow me at the outset to congratulate Mr. Essy on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session and to wish him every success in discharging this noble duty. A well-deserved word of appreciation is due to his predecessor, Ambassador Insanally, for the remarkable competence and skill he displayed as President at the last session. We highly esteem the Secretary-General's unreserved commitment, at the head of the world Organization, to make broad reforms in it and to increase its effectiveness in all fields. After the fall of the iron curtain in Europe, Albania joined the family of democratic nations, leaving behind a deep isolation and a totalitarian regime. In two years, thanks to the determination of the democratic Government to carry out profound and urgent reforms, Albania has taken important steps in all fields. State institutions have been transformed, drawing upon the positive experience of developed States. The former secret service was dissolved and the army was placed under civilian control and underwent reform in compliance with the requirements of a demilitarized, profoundly democratic society. Today, Albania boasts an independent judiciary and a constitutional court which supervises the constitutional character of the laws passed by Parliament. Currently in Albania, there are more than 30 registered political parties, hundreds of non-governmental organizations, and more than 320 magazines and newspapers, of which 90 per cent are privately owned. At present, Albania's religious communities practice their own beliefs in exemplary harmony and tolerance, according to the centuries-old traditions of my country. By promoting democracy and strengthening the institutions of the rule of law, the democratic Government seeks to guarantee the country's internal social and political stability. However, Albania continues to be the poorest country of the European continent and faces a series of economic difficulties. By firmly pursuing the economic policy of shock therapy, in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and the international community, the Government is implementing a series of short- and medium-term programs that have given a great impetus to free individual initiative. In two years' time, agriculture, land, apartments, transport, services, trade and about 2,500 small and medium-sized enterprises have been privatized. From 400 per cent, the inflation rate has dropped to less than 30 per cent a year; the currency is stable and practically convertible; and production is on the rise. In 1993, Albania recorded growth rate of 11 per cent, the highest in Europe. Foreign investments are also increasing. In the coming months we shall move ahead without losing time. The nearest objectives in legislation are the approval of the new penal code, the penal procedure code and the constitution, which will meet most advanced European standards. We will also try to increase cooperation with various international organizations, particularly with the agencies of the United Nations system. Albania attaches special importance to strengthening friendly relations and cooperation with the international community, the European Union, the United States of America, the countries of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and other friendly countries in the world. Albania's President Berisha is resolutely devoted to the establishment and strengthening of these ties in order to do away, once and for all, with the bitter consequences of the severe 50-year isolation which our people suffered. We want to have friendly relations, especially with our neighbors, and we are making efforts so that a climate of good understanding and cooperation, based on mutual respect and benefit in the spirit of the basic principles of the Helsinki Final Act, will prevail all around us. We have established such relations with Italy and are on the way to their further and all-round development. We would also like to have on a consistent basis the sort of good, tension-free relations we are currently enjoying with Greece, the only country of the Balkans that is a member of the European Union. We regard these relations, not merely as bilateral, but also as closely linked to the prospect of the integration of Albania and the Balkans into Europe. Advances are being made in the relations of good-neighborliness and broad cooperation with Turkey, Bulgaria and Romania, on the basis of a long historical tradition. As regards the new Balkan State, our eastern neighbor, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, we are resolutely committed to building relations of exemplary neighborliness with it and to helping that country overcome its internal and external difficulties. We are convinced that its integrity, its internal stability, its recognition and its membership in all international forums are of vital importance for peace, security and stability in the region. Our indispensable good relations with Macedonia are linked to and conditioned by the presence of an Albanian population that ranks second in size to Macedonians. We think that sound inter-ethnic understanding between Macedonians and Albanians, established on the basis of the due recognition of the Albanians' human and national rights, is indispensable for the domestic stability and prosperity of that Republic and the entire region. We would like to have peace, good-neighborlinesses and fruitful cooperation with Montenegro and Serbia, but these relations will remain frozen and mortgaged to the overall solution of the Yugoslav crisis, especially the political settlement of the Kosovo issue. The Kosovo issue is not merely and solely a question of respect for the human rights of the two million Albanian people and the recognition of a few rights in the areas of education and culture. The question concerns recognition of the political self-governing entity of the Albanians, for which the population of Kosovo has cast its vote in a democratic manner. Belgrade should seriously consider this option. We consider regional cooperation and integration an indispensable condition for our integration into Europe. We have been making continuous efforts to promote understanding with our neighbors. For the further promotion of Albania's democratic and economic changes there is a need for security and confidence in the Balkans. We hold that the developed countries could contribute with a full strategy and program in order to encourage the radical democratic changes in the entire Balkan space, a kind of Marshall Plan designed to promote peace, democracy and modem civilization there, an economic- political program for the all-round rehabilitation of the region. National and ethnic problems left over from the past, backwardness in terms of economic and social development, and the new problems resulting from the change of systems make it still possible for old political mentalities to dominate the stage of inter-Balkan relations. Those mentalities are opposed to true democratic developments, even in the countries which call themselves ancient democracies. As a Balkan country, Albania is concerned about the war and the crises that have encompassed our peninsula. We are convinced that at the foundation of the present-day Balkan crisis lies the revival of aggressive nationalism, which has unfurled the banner of territorial annexationist claims. The end of the cold war has again brought onto the scene the demons of old Balkan politics which seek a redrawing of the existing borders and the re-dismemberment of some States to the benefit of others. The Milosevic regime's opposition, through a bloody war, to the will of the peoples to break away from the former Yugoslav Federation was the first challenge to the principles of the United Nations Charter and the Helsinki Final Act, while the dismembering of Bosnia and Herzegovina was the first act carried out in the name of creating a hegemony-seeking Greater Serbia at the expense of this former republic of the Federation, a Member of the United Nations and of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). In today's Balkans the nations that consider themselves more powerful and better armed are seeking to extend their territories through force and war in order to expand their power. Expansion and aggressiveness inspire their policies towards their neighbors. National divisions, inter-ethnic hatred or religious diversity are encouraged and artificially provoked, and they are converted into major national and international policy issues in an attempt to disguise historically unfounded territorial claims. At the foundation of what politicians today call 'ethnic conflicts' in the Balkans lie the aggressive nationalism of a hegemony-seeking nation, racism and xenophobia, genocide and massive 'ethnic cleansing'. That is why we have often insisted that any settlement that would legalize the accomplished fact of 'ethnic cleansing' in Bosnia would create a dangerous precedent for new tragedies of this kind, starting in the Balkan region. Today, Serb and Greek nationalism are seriously threatening the Balkans. Such elements consider that the collapse of Communist dictatorships in the Balkans created a vacuum to be exploited to achieve their nationalist ambitions. Hence, Serb nationalism launched an aggression in the north and a war to realize a Greater Serbia by creating a real holocaust at the end of this century against the Bosnian people and by strengthening apartheid in Kosovo.That nationalism is bogged down in grave crimes. In our judgment, only the intransigence of the international community and the refusal to recognize the violation of the principles that all of us have accepted will compel the Serbs in Belgrade, Pale and Knin to give up war as a means of solving problems. The dismemberment of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the 'ethnic cleansing' on its territory are unacceptable. We have supported and still support the request of that Republic for the lifting of the arms embargo against it, an embargo which - there is no doubt - has been an encouragement to the aggressor. Similarly, we support the recent Security Council resolutions 941 (1994) and 942 (1994), which we believe are steps in the right direction for putting an end to hostilities in the region. However, we are opposed to resolution 943 (1994), which is a concession to the Milosevic regime and makes a settlement of the Yugoslav crisis and the establishment of general peace in the Balkans remote. I would like to recall that the crisis in the former Yugoslavia started in Kosovo and that it persists there, alive and very dangerous. Sanctions against Belgrade should not to be eased but should be further tightened and truly implemented if we want the crisis hotbeds in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the occupied territories of Croatia, Sandiak and Vojvodina, and especially in Kosovo to be eliminated. The Albanian Government insists that the lifting of sanctions against Serbia be conditioned on the settlement of the Kosovo issue. We should be realists. It was not Milosevic's goodwill but the unanimous stand of the great Powers of the Contact Group that recently made Belgrade announce an interruption of its aid to Serbian aggression in Bosnia and accept international monitoring of that act. On this occasion we should stress that these decisions are positive and welcome. They should be irreversible steps, for we consider that the future of peace and stability in the Balkans will also depend, to a considerable extent, on a just settlement of the Kosovo issue. Albanians in Kosovo have been deprived of all rights. Serb nationalism rejects dialog. It is brandishing weapons and engaging in threats by the use of tanks; it is organizing police terror daily from village to village, from one city quarter to another. We have insisted and still insist on carrying out a dialog between Kosovo's legitimate institutions and its leadership, on the one hand, and Belgrade, on the other, in the presence of a third party, on the restoration of the democratic institutions that were abolished with the use of tanks and on the definition of a status that should include recognition of the right to self-determination at an opportune moment. This is the only way, in our view, to reach an overall settlement of the Balkan crisis, which may grow into conflicts far larger than previous ones unless it is tackled with proper determination and responsibility. Greek nationalism, too, is another growing threat to Albania and the Albanians. It is seeking, through a series of maneuvers, to block the reforms in Albania and to destabilize it in an attempt to render the settlement of the Albanian question more difficult and delay it. To facilitate the position of its ally in the north, it is making territorial claims against Albania. Greek nationalism is dangerous not only on account of its tradition but also because of the fact that it has the privilege of being a somewhat forgotten nationalism. For, since Greece is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and of the European Union, there is a tendency to ignore it. The truth is that Greece today, as a member of NATO and the European Union, is subject to a certain control by and dependence on those organizations, and this is a positive thing. However, it is also true that over the past two years Greek nationalism has blocked action by those institutions several times because of the consensus needed to take decisions. Today, the establishment and progressive consolidation of positions in Greek official circles is a bitter fact. The power game that is taking place in Greece is undoubtedly being played through the free vote, but, in distinction to all the other countries of Western Europe, it is being played with nationalist slogans. It is an undeniable fact that after the game is played official Greece will emerge more nationalistic than it was before. It is precisely for these reasons that Greece, the birthplace of democracy, our millenary neighbor, avoided and gave up the opportunity to serve as a promoter of the integration of the Balkan countries into Europe after the fall of the iron curtain. At the same time, through its official and unofficial policy it became a true champion of Serb nationalism - not, of course, for the sake of Serbia’s interests but for the sake of interests and ambitions which it hopes to achieve by remaking the Balkans. We do not mean that Greece can be compared to Serbia, for that would not be realistic. But what causes great concern is the progressively official character Greek nationalistic policy is assuming. It is the Greek Government which has blocked the recognition of Macedonia and has imposed a blockade on it, ignoring the fact that its border is also the border of the European Union. It is Greek state nationalism that blocks European Union aid to the poorest European country, Albania, rendering its economic growth more difficult. The Mitsotakis Government officially demanded the autonomy of 'northern Epirus', as they call the south of Albania; the Papandreou Government declares that it has incorporated the south of our country in Greek defense planning. The official character the Greek Government has given to its policy on 'northern Epirus' poses a serious threat to the Balkans. Greek nationalism is trying to manipulate about 60,000 Greeks who live in the south of Albania - according to the 1989 census, they comprise 1.85 per cent of the country's population - as a means to destabilize Albania and to achieve its annexationist designs. For this purpose, Greece is emitting organized, nationalistic and fundamentalist propaganda through radio stations, air-dropped leaflets and the distribution of materials which claim the south of Albania and demand the overthrow of the democratic Tirana Government. On 10 April 1994, an armed band was sent into Albania, where it killed two Albanian army men; hundreds upon hundreds of firearms have been smuggled into Greek minority villages and young Greek minority people have been recruited and sent to attend Greek military schools without the knowledge of the Albanian Government. The recent verdict passed by an Albanian court on five Albanian citizens of Greek origin on charges of collusion with the Greek secret services, sending out military intelligence, the distribution and illegal possession of arms and so on, was exploited as an excuse to attack the Albanian Government at all international institutions and forums, including this august Assembly, to block 35 million ecu in European Union aid to Albania, to expel in retaliation 60,000 Albanian citizens who were legally employed in Greece in a matter of a few weeks, maltreating them, beating them up and killing six of them. I am pleased to inform the Assembly that the Greek minority of Albania did not let itself fall prey to such a chauvinistic policy. The Greek minority expressed this stand openly two weeks ago during Albanian President Sali Berish's visit to Greek minority villages in the south of Albania. All this has arisen because ethnic minorities in Albania live in harmony with Albanians, and are not maltreated by the Government. On the contrary, with the establishment of the democratic regime, they are step by step enjoying the most advanced standards as set forth in United Nations instruments, the Copenhagen Document and other international conventions on minorities. This has been confirmed by dozens of foreign observers, ethnic minority specialists, parliamentarians, representatives of international institutions, including the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) High Commissioner for ethnic minorities, Mr. Max van der Stoel, various non-governmental organizations, journalists and so on. With the establishment of the democratic regime in Albania, members of the Greek minority are represented in or lead local organs of power; are represented in the Albanian parliament in the ruling parties and the opposition parties, and even in a separate party; they are present at all levels of the administration as ministers, ambassadors, members of the supreme court, and so on; they go to Greece freely and with no obstacles from the Albanian State; they learn or are taught in their mother tongue, and a recent decision of the Albanian Government has created more opportunities to extend this possibility; they have their own schools at all levels, a separate branch in the Greek language at the Gjirokastra University, their own mass media, radio broadcasts and newspapers in the Greek language, as well as their political and cultural organizations. The Albanian Government has openly declared that the crisis in its relations with Greece will in no way affect the harmonious relations between Albanians and members of the Greek minority in Albania. On the other hand, we call on the Greek Government to apply the international conventions relating to ethnic minorities. It cannot shirk its responsibility with its senseless denial of the presence of national minorities in Greece. How could the Turkish, Macedonian and Albanian minorities vanish in Greece at a stroke? The Greek Government should put an end to the suffocating climate that prevents these minorities from asserting their own national identity. How could the Greek Government forget the 1944-1945 massacre of the Albanian population of Chameria, when thousands upon thousands of people were stabbed to death and killed with firearms by Greek chauvinistic nationalists. And some of those who could escape alive, old folk and children, were expelled to Albania and Turkey, thus creating a real tragedy of divided families, whereas their land, homes and other property were usurped by Greek colonists, who still possess them today in contravention of international civil law. We have always appreciated the importance of good relations with Greece, free from any concern and tension, for our development, peace and security. Because of the reasons already mentioned, this has not always worked out. We tried to overcome the present-day crisis in our relations, provoked against our interest and will, through dialog either on a bilateral footing or through international mediation. The Greek minority people in Albania, too, have publicly supported unconditional dialog between the two Governments. Unfortunately, the Greek side has so far rejected a meeting of our two countries' Foreign Ministers, proposed by the Albanian side, as well as the mediation of the United Nations Secretary-General, the European Union presidency and the United States Administration. On the contrary, they are still bringing pressure to bear on the democratic Albanian Government. The Albanian Government will continue to make every effort to be constructive and strive for peace in its policy towards its Balkan neighbors, aware of the fact that the Balkans is one of the hottest and most dangerous spots in the world today, and therefore the attention of the international community should not be distracted from it. In conclusion, I should like to stress that we share the view and join the efforts aimed at revising the Charter and structure of the United Nations, especially as it concerns such important organs as the Security Council, which takes decisions on the maintenance of international peace and security, in order to enhance their efficiency in response to today's challenges in a fast-changing world. The crisis the world is currently experiencing urgently raises the need to achieve consensus on such a restructuring of the Security Council, so as to make this important decision-making body as representative and democratic as possible and even more effective in the adoption of decisions and their implementation. I take this opportunity to reiterate the candidature of my country for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council from the Eastern European Group for the 1996-1997 term. We think that giving this seat to Albania after 40 years of membership in the United Nations would also be an encouragement to small countries to assume the responsibility incumbent upon them and commit themselves to safeguarding peace, security and world order. We look confidently to the further enhancement of United Nations peace-keeping activities. To this end, Albania maintains that the United Nations needs an efficient mechanism to warn of conflicts in advance and to intervene in time in order to prevent their outbreak. We would like to stress the conclusion we have drawn from Bosnia's tragic experience. We seriously believe that the tragedy could have been averted if there had been serious attention by the United Nations when it recognized the secession and independence of that Republic from the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The military intervention Serbia perpetrated in order to halt more secessions from the federation would have been avoided if the new Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina had been placed under the firm protection of the United Nations. It is never too late to draw lessons. We think that the United Nations should set up a modem system of trusteeship that could be set in motion whenever necessary to prevent human catastrophes like that in Bosnia. Today, this is dictated by the situation in Kosovo, which is very close to posing a potential threat like that posed by Bosnia; it is dictated also by the situations in Rwanda, Somalia, Haiti and other places. As we said last year, we are in favor favor of United Nations intervention wherever there are clear signs, as determined by early-warning monitoring, of a threat of human catastrophe. As we all know, the consequences of such catastrophes have negative effects on regional and international peace and security. We hold that in such cases there is no reason for the Security Council to hesitate to take a decision on intervention without the prior consent of the State or Government that is the cause of and is responsible for the catastrophe. Otherwise, such human catastrophes will never be prevented, and international peace, security and stability will always be threatened. What we demand is in full compliance with the universally accepted idea, that it is easier to avoid a crisis or conflict than to try to solve it after it has broken out. France is especially pleased, Mr. President, to see the General Assembly meeting under your authority. At the end of a year marked by the passing of an extraordinary statesman, President Houphouët-Boigny, your election has given the international community another occasion to stop and think about the situation in the African continent, which in recent months has brought us both hope and tragedy. In South Africa, a decisive evolutionary process took concrete form this year in the first elections there with universal suffrage. We can now express our joy at seeing that country take its rightful place in the concert of nations. The choice of the South African people, inspired by outstanding men to whom France wishes again to pay a tribute, provides an example for all those who aspire to democracy, reconciliation and peace and gives them hope. In Rwanda, on the other hand, an unprecedented tragedy has set the international community’s responsibility squarely before it. The Assembly is familiar with the efforts made by France to respond to that tragedy and with the support it managed to find, primarily among the African States. The operation that was carried out enabled us to shelter more than 3 million Rwandans from the fighting. None the less, we have found it necessary once again to say the word 'genocide', which, almost 50 years after the birth of the United Nations, amounts to saying that the worst is still possible. During the darkest years of the Second World War, General De Gaulle spoke of the need to establish a world order that could guarantee the security of all, to make rational use of all the world’s riches and to bring together all the people on the face of the Earth. The time has come for us to rediscover the ideal that inspired the 12 generation of the founders and to ask ourselves with clarity what means are necessary to implement it. Almost everywhere in the world we are seeing the positive movement of nation-States into groups. France has made the building up of Europe one of the pillars of its foreign policy. How could it not, then, encourage the formation of new areas of solidarity? The experience of building Europe, which began 40 years ago, is a case in point. It has done more than just do away with the age-old rivalries that had led to two world wars. In the western part of the European continent, economic integration and political cooperation have attained a level that is unmatched in the world. Since the iron curtain ceased to exist, we have been primarily concerned with expanding to all parts of Europe the zone of peace and prosperity resulting from that process. This explains our desire to speed up the integration of the Central and Eastern European democracies into the European Union. It also accounts for our efforts to organize a partnership with Russia and the States of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). The European Union, the Western European Union (WEU), the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) are all coooperating in the efforts towards this end. Furthermore, it explains France’s initiative, taken up in turn by the European Union, to establish a stability pact. This is an ambitious exercise in preventive diplomacy, aimed at resolving issues of relations between neighbours and of minority groups, where such issues persist in the European theatre. Today Europe is a world power, as it demonstrated during the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiations, at which its efforts led, notably, to the establishment of a World Trade Organization (WTO). This is a major success that will benefit all its member countries by putting an end to unilateral practices and guaranteeing fair and free trade. Europe is thus assuming its international responsibilities. It is actively supporting the peace processes in the Middle East, in southern Africa and elsewhere. It has long been involved in the struggle to achieve development, particularly through the Lomé Conventions. It provides substantial financing everywhere - the most in the world - for peoples mired in humanitarian crises. Its actions prove that a genuine regional power can benefit the entire international community. New regional groups of solidarity are gradually taking shape in all parts of the world. In Africa, France supports the principle of an OAU mechanism for preventing, handling and settling conflicts. We are ready to help set up a military mechanism to enable the OAU to intervene more quickly, under United Nations control, in the framework of peace-keeping operations. In South-East Asia, the countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) are working to strengthen their economic ties and to establish confidence- building measures to reinforce the stability of the region. France, which through the European Union was present at ASEAN’s regional forum on security, held recently in Bangkok, takes a special interest in the beneficial effects this process should have on the countries of the Indo- Chinese peninsula. On the American continent, the entry into force of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) adds to the dynamism of existing regional organizations, old and new. Thus, perhaps, there may be such a group in the Middle East as well, where progress in the peace process allows us to envision the development of intensive regional cooperation. The organization of all kinds of ties among the countries concerned will help to establish peace in the region, as will the search for solutions to the political problems that are still pending. France can therefore only repeat that we hope to see the boycotts finally ended. Our financial support for the peace process, as well as our active participation in the multilateral negotiations, including participation in such ultra-sensitive areas as regional security, reflect this very same conviction. Above and beyond that, France would like to see Europe organize a forum for cooperation involving all the Mediterranean States. We have, on the initiative of Egypt, already made a contribution to the coming into being of the Mediterranean Forum, which recently held its first meeting in Alexandria. We will make this one of the main goals of the French presidency of the European Union in the first semester of the coming year. Everywhere, then, the progress being made in processes leading to integration and the establishment of regional frameworks for cooperation reflects positive trends. These organizations, however, have neither the right nor the capability to do everything. It is the United Nations that is and must remain the sole forum for 13 organizing peace and solidarity throughout the world. It is up to the United Nations and to that Organization alone to ensure international equilibrium since, in the last resort, it alone has the power to decide on enforcement measures or on the use of force. Regional organizations do contribute to peace and international stability. They may indeed fulfil missions in preventive diplomacy, but they must then be inspired by the principles enshrined in the United Nations. As regards peace-keeping, Chapter VIII of our Charter expressly provides that the United Nations may, in certain circumstances, employ the means at the disposal of the regional organizations. But when conflicts become exacerbated, when a crisis calls for a mandatory solution, the Charter requires us to turn to the Security Council, the sole authority having power to decide on enforcement measures or on the use of force other than for legitimate self-defence. The justification for such measures may come only from the will of the international community, and that is why the Security Council, in our view, must exert its authority and control at all stages of operations it may decide upon: conception and approval of the mandate, the major phases of implementation and the monitoring of implementation. The adoption of a system of mandatory sanctions against States that breach international legality is also a prerogative of the Security Council. But, and we are very keenly aware of this, this concerns serious, exceptional measures whose purpose must be precisely defined to bring pressure to bear on a Government to change its attitude. That is the objective in such instances. France therefore proposes that in future, when a resolution imposing sanctions upon a Member State is to be voted upon, three conditions must be met. These are, that all other diplomatic avenues have been explored without success; that the Council resolution state explicitly what actions the targeted State should take in order for the sanctions to be lifted; and that the maintenance of the sanctions should be subject to regular review in good faith. In the realm of disarmament, our Organization is once again the sole forum where international commitments may be entered into. Given this perspective, France ascribes especial importance to the speedy ratification of the Convention banning chemical weapons - the first multilateral disarmament treaty - and thereby its entry into force in 1995. France hopes to see our Organization make progress towards strengthening the Convention banning biological weapons and to see new efforts made to ban anti-personnel mines. I was particularly pleased to hear President Clinton endorse this very concept in his recent statement to the Assembly. Finally, the requirement for non-proliferation, which North Korea’s attitude compels us to take especially seriously, must lead, at the 1995 Conference, to the unconditional and indefinite renewal of the non-proliferation Treaty. In this same vein, France reaffirms its support for the decision taken by the General Assembly last year to begin negotiations on a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty that would be internationally and effectively verifiable. Over recent years, crisis prevention and crisis management have absorbed the greater part of our efforts. We have thus imperceptibly strayed somewhat from what was a major chapter in the history of the United Nations: the North-South dialogue, the major conferences on trade and development. France thus proposes that the United Nations restore development and the struggle to achieve it to their central place in its work. It is not a question of repeating what was done in past decades. Our approach to development has changed. The work pursued under the auspices of the United Nations and its agencies has helped to call attention to the interdependence of the economic, demographic, cultural and social ramifications of the development question. That is why the main theme conferences devoted to the environment, to population, to social development and to the status of women are now once again the instruments to be used to mobilize for development. Given this perspective, France will organize in Paris before the end of this year the signing of the Convention on the struggle against desertification, as well as the Aids Summit. The United Nations alone is capable of ensuring that all these efforts be pursued consistently. It has the necessary legitimacy and authority, inasmuch as all the main institutions concerned, including what are known as the Bretton Woods institutions, are part and parcel of the United Nations system. We therefore consider it necessary to strengthen the links that unite all these separate bodies. In particular, we should ensure that the policies of adjustment carried out under World Bank or International Monetary Fund auspices take due account of the social requirements of development. France is committed to doing so in working with its partners, and has recently agreed to a substantial effort to help the franc zone countries overcome the short-term effects of the devaluation of the CFA franc. The Economic and Social Council should be the place for ensuring coherence and consistency within these organizations. France therefore proposes that the next 14 annual meeting of the Council in Geneva should be an opportunity for the ministers of Member States personally to undertake a complete examination of the policies followed by these various institutions with regard to development, and especially to study specific ways by which they might work together better. The Secretary-General’s efforts for renewal and clarification through the 'Agenda for Development' naturally form part of this global approach. The European Union, for its part, has presented recommendations in its aide-mémoire that it believes would enhance that draft. France intends to take an active part in General Assembly discussions on this subject. The role of our Organization is no less critical where humanitarian action is involved. France intervenes regularly on the ground alongside United Nations agencies, and we should like to pay a tribute to the outstanding work done by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the World Food Programme and UNICEF, working under tragically difficult circumstances. We were able to appreciate in full measure their usefulness as the Rwandan crisis unfolded. We have had confirmation that the United Nations alone is able to coordinate such difficult operations. Naturally, there is need for further progress: in shortening the Organization’s reaction time, and in better allocating tasks among agencies. But the reform that began three years ago with the establishment of the Department for Humanitarian Affairs is beginning to bear fruit. We are indeed on the right track. Lastly, France would like to stress the underlying principle of international law: the universality of human rights, a principle which may not be challenged in the name of any religious, cultural or national specificities. I am all the more ready to say that because France is itself keen on preserving its identity and intent on defending it. However different people may be, they share the same rights. The very existence of our Organization rests on this principle. France has consistently urged the acceleration of progress in the field of human rights, by seeking recognition that certain principles must be applied to States’ actions. I welcome the steps taken by the High Commissioner for Human Rights since his designation and express the hope that the resources made available to him will be commensurate with his mission. The establishment of the International Tribunal for war crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia is a significant event. Until very recently there had been some scepticism about this initiative. Today, thanks to the resolve of the Tribunal’s judges and prosecutor, it is in place and beginning to examine actual cases being submitted to it. France supports these efforts and hopes that comparable crimes of genocide that may have been committed in Rwanda will also lead to the establishment of an international legal body. The juridical work of the United Nations extends to other areas as well. It is designed to address matters of international trade with a view to making it both freer and fairer. In this regard, I have already expressed our satisfaction at the establishment of the World Trade Organization. The signing a few weeks ago of an act that completes the monumental work done by the United Nations on the law of the sea is also a historic event. If our Organization is to be able to carry out the many difficult tasks which I have just described, we must constantly work to reform it and adjust the means available to it - in the first place, by strengthening the means available to the Secretary-General. On behalf of France, I should like to pay a tribute here to the Secretary-General - and this is not a mere formality. We have the good fortune to have at the helm of our Organization a man who, thanks to his ceaseless efforts over the past two years, has made progress possible in all areas: preventive diplomacy, crisis management, development, the running of the institution. We must therefore give him the means to continue his work. This is true, too, of peace-keeping missions. Recent experience has shown the need to make military forces available to the Secretary-General on very short notice in the implementation of Security Council resolutions. To that end, France wishes to develop a network of stand-by forces. On the initiative of the President of the Republic, we have offered to make a standing unit of several thousand men available to the United Nations. It is also essential for the Secretary-General to be able to control the evolution of peace-keeping missions. To that end, France recommends systematic recourse to the designation of a special representative. The Secretary-General must be able to rely on the assistance of prominent and particularly competent persons. With regard to management, last year’s establishment of the post of Inspector General marked an important step forward. We expect further progress to be made this year with the establishment of a committee on budgetary discipline, as I proposed last year from this very rostrum. Lastly, as our Prime Minister has 15 suggested, France proposes that someone be appointed on a permanent basis to the Secretary-General’s Office who would deal with the question of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Our Assembly is the most universal of international institutions. Its prestige and authority must therefore be strengthened. To that end, France is making three proposals. First, sessions of the Fifth Committee must be held more closely together in order to ensure better control over our finances, particularly with regard to peace-keeping operations. Secondly, there must be more frequent missions of the Assembly to deal with certain crisis situations, as was done in the cases of Haiti and South Africa. The financial reform of the United Nations, which has been discussed for several years now, must be set in motion. Following the work of the high-level Working Group established last year to consider the question of enlarging the Security Council, France proposes that a group, led by the President of the General Assembly, be set up this year to make proposals that could lead to the financial reform of our Organization. Thirdly, we must work to achieve the enlargement of the Security Council. This question has already been the focus of in-depth discussions that have clarified the positions at issue. For its part, France has no panacea to offer, but it believes that the solution must answer the dual imperative of efficacy and representativeness. On the one hand, if the Security Council is to function efficiently, given its tasks and the circumstances in which it intervenes, its capacity to take important decisions quickly must clearly be maintained. But the Council must also allow for full public debate in reaching its decisions. Hence, we are in favour of the Council’s holding official meetings - without of course giving up its informal consultations - to hear Members of the Organization and talk with them before taking positions on the important questions before it. We believe that this is the appropriate response to the demand for transparency made by many delegations. On the other hand, the Council’s authority and thus its efficacy also depend on its representativeness. We therefore favour the enlargement of the Council to include new permanent and non-permanent members. France confirms its support for the desires of Germany and Japan to accede to permanent membership. It also considers that the representatives of the developing world should in no case find themselves marginalized by any future reform. The United Nations exists and acts only through the will of its Member States. Though that is obvious it bears repeating. Any failure of our Organization is in fact the failure of those same States - that is, as my colleague from the United Kingdom stated earlier today, our own failure. Its efficacy depends above all on the degree of commitment each of us brings to it. Without the commitment of States there can be no solution to the financial crisis of the United Nations. Each of us is aware of the gravity of our Organization’s financial situation. Each of us also knows that this critical situation is not the result solely of the sum total of expenditures. The real source of our crisis is well known: it is the negligence of States which do not pay their contributions or do not pay them in full. Of course, we welcome the fact that one of the main contributor countries has decided to pay a substantial part of its arrears, thereby bringing temporary relief to the Organization’s financial situation. We can understand why some Member States are requesting that the scale of contributions be adjusted in order better to reflect real abilities to pay. France hopes that at the present session the General Assembly will address the revision of this scale in accordance with the principle of fairness and in a spirit of consensus. But fairness also requires swifter and more substantial reimbursement to States that provide the troops necessary to peace-keeping operations and are therefore the primary victims of late payments. The situation in which some in fact pay twice while others do not pay at all must come to an end. France therefore asks once again that a working group be established and mandated to propose all the measures that can encourage tardy States to pay their arrears. And without the commitment of States there cannot be any solution to international instability. France has made considerable efforts to help resolve crises that have threatened the international order over the past few years. It has been the first and is now the second largest troop contributor to the United Nations. It has well-known experience in the three areas of preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping and humanitarian action. Obviously, France does not wish to lecture anyone, but its own commitment does permit it to say that the readiness of 16 States does not meet the demands made today upon our Organization. Need we cite all the circumstances in which the non- participation or temporizing of States has compromised action mandated by the Security Council? How many weeks did we have to wait last year for the military arrangements provided for under Security Council resolution 824 (1993) on safe areas in Bosnia were finally in place? We all remember that, during the Rwandan crisis, the decision taken by the Security Council in mid- May to strengthen the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda had yet to be implemented two months later. Rather than dwelling on these disappointments, however, France wishes to pay tribute to all those States that have shown, by their commitment and sense of international solidarity, that the United Nations can prove that it is effective. The African countries that chose to share with us the risks involved in the operation in Rwanda; the United States, which is working in Haiti to effect the implementation of Security Council resolution 940 (1994); the States whose soldiers stand with ours in the United Nations Protection Force: it is thanks to them that there remains a chance for peace in the former Yugoslavia, delayed only by the stubbornness of the Bosnian Serb leaders. France expects that the greatest of firmness will be used in dealing with these most recent warmongers. But the change in position of the other parties, and in particular the authorities in Belgrade, makes it incumbent upon us to continue to seek a negotiated settlement. In this spirit, we appeal to Presidents Izetbegovic, Tudjman and Milosevic, who have all accepted the peace plan for Bosnia, to resume the direct dialogue necessary for a comprehensive settlement. Otherwise, the international community must be prepared to propose the terms of a comprehensive, just and lasting settlement, taking into account the legitimate interests of the various communities that made up the former Yugoslavia and must enjoy equal rights. Bringing to trial those responsible for war crimes is a moral imperative to which France is committed. We must above all make the people in the former Yugoslavia understand that there are prospects for the future other than endless violence and vengeance. That is France’s message. That is the reason for the commitment of our soldiers in Bosnia and, sadly, the sacrifice of several dozen of them. There is nothing pre-ordained about failure to get involved, or inertia. There is a strong will at the heart of our Organization. Therefore France appeals to all Member States to mark the fiftieth anniversary with a genuine renewal of commitment. Voices are being raised today urging our Organization to show greater realism in defining the missions that it has to carry out. In appealing to Member States to mobilize, France wishes to reaffirm its unwavering conviction that, in the face of the challenges to the international community, realism consists not in being less ambitious but in ensuring that we have the means fully to achieve our ambitions. They must not be limited to what seems possible; they must be to make possible what is obviously necessary. It is in this spirit that France will continue actively to play its role within the United Nations. I should like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. May I also express our appreciation to Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana for having successfully guided the work of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session and further enhanced its centrality. The cold war has ended, and totalitarianism has met its nemesis. At this very critical stage in history, we must seize the opportunity to redesign the international order so as to realize the aspirations of the global community. We must meet this challenge and collectively reconstruct a truly just order for our time and for the generations to come. Indeed, the global community has reached many significant milestones. More nations have agreed to resolve their disputes by peaceful means. South Africa has emerged from its political catharsis as a nation free of apartheid and with majority rule; Cambodia experienced free and democratic elections; and lasting peace in West Asia came closer to realization with the Israeli-Palestinian accords. However, the initial euphoria will be somewhat short-lived. The path ahead is strewn with uncertainties and pitfalls. The end of the cold war has yet to reward us fully with its promise of global peace and security. It has instead unleashed the demons of parochial nationalism, tribalism, religious fanaticism — as witnessed in the “ethnic cleansing” in Bosnia — tribal warfare in Rwanda and religious dissension in some countries. The North-South divide in wealth, power and control over resources is still too pronounced to be ignored, and the redistribution of global prosperity is far from being realized. The paramount challenge facing the global community today is to fulfil the promises made in recent years of systemic change in the global environment. This is to be achieved through sustained efforts in regard to economic development and through the strengthening of civil society and multilateral institutions. Development is the only secure foundation for global peace and security, for the origins of conflicts are often very deeply rooted in socio-economic deprivation and disparities. As for civil society, its growth into maturity requires the establishment of institutions for a stable and responsive social order, a democratic participatory arrangement as a means to channel political energy, and an environment in which culture can flourish. In all these areas, it is the people that matter — their freedom, security and development. All great traditions of mankind, East and West, concur in the sanctity of the human person, the family as a fundamental unit of society, and the primacy of moral and ethical values as a foundation of civilizations. The sanctity of the human person warrants the State’s protection of the inalienable rights of all to freedom, to participate in social, political and cultural processes and to optimize the potential of the human person through development. The rights of the individual must be safeguarded inasmuch as the stability of society cannot be compromised. It is within this framework that we conceive the restoration of human rights in any society, industrial or developing, as a continuing endeavour which we must never abandon. The promise made at the 1992 Rio Summit remains unfulfilled. If no increased official development assistance is forthcoming and the international target of 12 0.7 per cent is not met, this will represent a serious reneging on the Rio commitments, notwithstanding the Global Environment Facility. This will raise questions as to the commitment of the North to pledges made at major conferences. The World Summit for Social Development will take place next year, and what will be the value of assiduously negotiated documents when, as with the Rio Agenda 21, no real means are provided for their implementation? The recent International Monetary Fund/World Bank meeting at Madrid highlighted the preoccupation of the major developed countries, often at a tangent from the needs and requirements of developing countries. At the Rio Summit, the developed countries declared that the tropical forests belonged to the whole world. It was maintained that these forests must always remain in order to maintain biological diversity and sustain ecological balance. Today, South-East Asia is covered in thick haze, adversely affecting the health of the people. Hundreds of thousands of hectares of virgin forest are burning, and valuable species are being lost. If indeed the tropical forest is the heritage of mankind, the responsibility for its protection must necessarily be collective. While the South-East Asian countries will take the necessary measures, we appeal to the global community, especially the richer members, to help us put out this fire on an urgent and priority basis. We regard the issue of global population as inseparable from the overall concern of development. Reductions in fertility mainly come about from investment in education and health care for women. While we share the fundamental objectives of the Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, we deplore the attempt to impose views without regard for the values of others. The peace dividend that we aspire to reap will not be realized without sustained growth in the global economy. However, growth prospects are often hampered by short- sighted policies and structural crises within the industrial economies. Viewed in this light, the popular call for macroeconomic stabilization should not be confined to the developing countries alone but instead should encompass both the developing and the industrial economies. The United Nations will soon commemorate its fiftieth year of existence. It would be uncharitable to ignore altogether the outstanding contributions made to humanity by this world body and its agencies. It has provided a platform for international cooperation in the fields of education, law, health, culture, economics, refugee relief and so on. But more significantly, it has, by its very existence, prepared the groundwork for a global order that would be truly democratic and multicultural. However, as we draw up the balance sheet of that era and contemplate the challenges of the twenty-first century, we must take into serious account our many limitations. Clearly, the United Nations as it exists today is unable effectively to deal with critical global issues. In the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina the Security Council remains paralysed in the implementation of its own resolutions. Should we also ask then: if the Council was ready to plunge into the Gulf crisis a few years ago, how can that be reconciled with the political timidity and clear absence of resolve to take effective action in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, even after the rejection of the so-called peace plan by the Serbs? Within the United Nations itself, the peace-keeping operations decided on by the Security Council provide no clear institutional structure for consultation, especially between non-Security-Council member troop-contributing countries and Security Council members. Yet the major Powers are resisting the urgent need for regular consultations between the Security Council and troop- contributing countries. While the situation in Somalia clearly reflected the need for some form of United Nations involvement, if not intervention, there have been other operations where even countries in the region have been totally opposed to United Nations involvement. My delegation, which has been deeply involved in United Nations peace-keeping operations, is concerned about operations which serve questionable interest groups. In the Security Council, while agreement between the Permanent Five has removed obstacles and facilitated settlements of disputes, the momentum behind the push to solve issues, if not properly checked and balanced by a process of accountability and non-selectivity of issues, may prove to be the undoing of the Council itself and of its moral authority. The role of major Powers, at least those that still deserve that status, is explicitly recognized in the Charter of the United Nations. However, many of us will not be willing to agree that these Powers should continue to be Charter-privileged to intervene wherever they wish and only when their own interpretations of peace and security warrant intervention. 13 Reform of the Security Council is necessary to reflect a more equitable geographical representation and towards making the Council more accountable to the general membership. Resistance from a few, whose own claims to being major Powers are becoming increasingly unpersuasive, should not be allowed to stand in the way of change. The issue is not one merely of enlarging the permanent membership but is one of enhanced participation. As the Council is unrepresentative, the first step towards reform must be to increase the numbers of non-permanent members. The veto, a creation of the power politics of the past, must be part of the total reform of the Council. The United Nations still represents the best recourse for developing countries to advance their interests in global affairs. Hence, we cannot allow the present uncertainties about the structure and role of the United Nations to remain unresolved. The United Nations, despite financial problems, cannot be allowed to become a mendicant of the power brokers at the expense of the principles of the Charter. The United Nations is the only institution capable of providing the vehicle for a comprehensive and integrated approach to peace and development. A revitalized Economic and Social Council has the potential to coordinate and, it is hoped, harmonize policies emanating from separate bodies such as the G-7 and the Bretton Woods institutions. In this regard priority must be accorded to an Agenda for Development which would provide the new framework for international development cooperation, the basis for a truly global partnership. The United Nations must also spearhead the struggle towards total and complete nuclear disarmament. The major Powers must not slacken the momentum towards effective non-proliferation and comprehensive test-ban treaties, critical to our collective resolve to halt the arms race and eliminate the utilization of weapons of mass destruction. Malaysia is prepared to make an early commitment to the goals of true globalism and, with a genuine mechanism reposing in the United Nations, to a new world system for international peace, security and development. We will continue to participate actively in the work of the multilateral system. International society has grown fourfold since 1945. The world is heterogeneous and multicultural. Meaningful discourse cannot be limited by the narrowness of parameters or an overbearing sense of cultural supremacy. We must strive to overcome and transcend unproductive polarizations. We all need to purge ourselves of the arrogance and myopia embedded in the old mind-set. We must learn to honour diversity of opinion and the multiplicity of world views and perspectives on life and society. None the less, they must not impede efforts to seek and implement genuine solutions for our common good and shared problems. We must accept the new realities, particularly the far-reaching systemic transformations in the global economy. The growing economic strength of East Asia and the newly industrializing countries will invariably bring about a new equation of power and responsibility in global affairs. We are fully aware of the many shortcomings inherent within East Asia; its remarkable economic performance is far from miraculous. Nevertheless, its experience portrays the path of change towards the qualitative search for excellence. Political stability was appropriated to garner efforts for economic growth which ultimately became the means to empower the people. Its strength, as in the case of Malaysia and other South-East Asian countries, is to accept and to experience the proposition that development and democracy are not mutually exclusive; and the exercise in responsible liberty by the ordinary people and their participation in public life does not necessarily result in social indiscipline and political instability. Development is enriched by multiculturalism where the practice of tolerance and moderation has turned religious and ethnic diversity from being a source of conflict into an ingredient for success. In a world torn by ethnic and religious passions and cultural prejudices, the experience of South-East Asia in multiculturalism may provide some clues for devising the means for peaceful coexistence and productive partnership among citizens of the global village. Dag Hammarskjöld, when reflecting on the state of the world almost 40 years ago, was perhaps less exuberant than we are at the prospects of globalism. With the memory of war still fresh, he said: “We must serve our apprenticeship and at every stage try to develop forms of international coexistence as far as is possible at the moment.” That apprenticeship has now been served. The United Nations must innovate and renew itself to address the challenges of the twenty-first century. It must progress and transform itself from being a theatre for the 14 concert of a few powerful nations into an effective and representative vehicle for global governance. And, beyond that, it must be animated by the spirit of justice and a bias towards compassion. In short, the very legitimacy of this international body hinges upon its realizing the ideal of becoming the conscience of the global community. It gives me pleasure to extend to you, Sir, on behalf of the delegation of the State of Kuwait, our sincere congratulations on your well-deserved unanimous election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that your qualities of leadership will ensure efficient and smooth deliberations. I take this opportunity to underline the good and friendly relations that exist between Kuwait and your country. I should like also to pay tribute to Mr. Samuel Insanally, the President of the last session of the Assembly, for the competence he demonstrated in guiding the Assembly's proceedings during his term of office. The delegation of Kuwait would like to place on record its appreciation for the achievements made under his leadership. I wish also to reiterate the appreciation of the Government and people of Kuwait and my own personal recognition of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his consistent efforts to enhance the performance of the world body and the pursuit of its goals on behalf of mankind. Kuwait fully supports the Secretary-General's vision in carrying out his 'Agenda for Peace', in which he elaborated his concept of preventive diplomacy. Next year, the United Nations will commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of its creation as an Organization of sovereign States whose relations are governed by the principles and purposes embodied in the Charter of the United Nations. The overriding concern of this global institution is to secure world peace, the independence of nations and freedom, and to harness energies for construction and development. The United Nations system is also a framework within which we collectively seek to alleviate the misery and suffering of our deprived and disadvantaged fellow human beings. It is in this context that people would attain their freedom and independence, colonial rule would come to an end and the right to self- determination would become more entrenched than ever before. Thanks to the United Nations mandates, universal efforts are ever-growing to liberate humanity from the grip of suppression and fear and from the shackles of backwardness and ignorance, on the one hand, and to ensure global security and stability, on the other. The results of these efforts over several decades have been reflected in major historic achievements despite all the challenges and odds faced by peoples in their steady endeavours to attain independence and reaffirm their identity. All those accomplishments turned out to be the salient features of our collective vision of the future. In all fairness, the admirable work of the United Nations and its accomplishments since its inception proved the relevance and importance of the tenets and objectives upon which it was conceived. In the early days, freedom from colonialism was the primary concern. The focus has now shifted to the improvement of general living conditions. In the past, the struggle was for independence, whereas the challenge now lies in the reaffirmation of and commitment to the rights of the human person to a decent life in freedom. Indeed, the world has recently undergone an enormous transformation in terms of ideology, systems of governance and international relations. The United Nations interacted with these changes. The era of confrontation between ideological blocs has now given way to genuine mutual and multilateral interdependence. A cursory glance at the recent and forthcoming United Nations major world conferences clearly proves this trend. There was the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna in 1993 and the Conference on Population and Development which ended days ago in Cairo. The World Summit for Social Development and the World Conference on Women are to be held in Copenhagen and Beijing, respectively, next year. In this regard, Kuwait supports the movement towards renewal and restructuring, away from the static stereotypes of the past. To our minds, international restructuring is a constant evolutionary process which should be responsive to the ever-changing global developments. Hence our active contribution to the efforts made by the General Assembly and its organs towards updating and reviving the mechanisms of the United Nations system. It is our hope that the current streamlining exercise will foster the capability of the United Nations to meet the increasing demand for its services and operations and will contribute to a better fulfilment of its mandates under the Charter. In particular, we look forward to the development of the work, composition and effectiveness of the Security Council so that it may reflect the recent changes on the world scene, on the one hand, and satisfy the wishes and aspirations of the United Nations larger membership, on the other. In the meantime, Kuwait believes that our collective efforts should at this stage focus on the formulation of more recognizable parameters of an international order which should be based on the following facts. Firstly, the rationale, essence and thrust of the new order should derive from logical facts. Dialogue, persuasion and non-use of force, the rejection of aggression, the condemnation of terrorism and respect for the rights of all Member States to pursue their own policies in such a way that ensures their own interests within an international framework structured along the lines of justice, equality, the rule of law and compliance with international treaties, especially the United Nations Charter, should all be key components of the new vision. Secondly, focus on human development in the context of economic and social development should represent a qualitative shift away from the futile, indeed harmful, stockpiling of weapons of mass destruction and the consequential squandering of national assets on disastrous aggressive adventures. In this regard, Kuwait has evolved a relevant vision through its painful experience of the brutal Iraqi occupation. One of the major lessons drawn is that the issue of human resources development should be accorded a higher priority on the international agenda. Thirdly, the promotion of North-South dialogue with a view to narrowing the existing gaps in the living standards of the two groups. The ultimate aim is to ensure that the North should not continue to maintain an almost exclusive monopoly of wealth and affluence while the South continues to languish in the tight grip of endless poverty. Is it not high time for us all to recognize that the concept of collective security will remain seriously deficient and doubtful under the existing socio-economic equation, i.e. a minority living in luxurious comfort while the majority is striving to survive in appalling misery? Fourthly, insistence on the elimination of all vestiges and forms of racial discrimination, including opposition to the neo-racist policies and practices that surfaced as a result of the collapse of the old order. Obviously, the neo-racists resort to the use of force in order to secure territorial gains and to acquire land by force under the smoke screen of ethnic cleansing. Within the practice of ethnic cleansing emerges an unmistakable pattern at work. Intensely bestial instincts of mass murder and destruction break loose, contrary to all norms of human discipline and civilized conduct. Therefore, we are all duty-bound to resist and suppress this criminal tendency in order to reassure all peoples of their sense of human community and common destiny. In this context, I wish to pay tribute to the leaders of South Africa and to congratulate the people of South Africa on their triumph over the system of apartheid. We know too well the great sacrifices they made and the long hard path they forged to reach where they are now. I am confident that the emergence of a non-racial South Africa to the arena and the resumption of its role in the United Nations will in time contribute significantly to multilateralism in terms of consolidating the principles of justice and equality. There is no question but that the struggle of the people of South Africa to eliminate racism will probably remain for a long time to come a rich source of inspiration for all of us. In the crucial area of peace-building on the basis of justice, the Middle East region has recently seen dramatic developments that could indeed prove to be historic turning- point, which may well be recorded in the annals of peace achievements despite the enormous problems arising from the many hotbeds of tension that jeopardize security and stability in different regions of the world. Following their agreement to end the state of war between them, Jordan and Israel signed an accord to serve as a basis for a just settlement. Also, the Palestinian National Authority started to assume its responsibilities in the local administration of Gaza and Jericho in the Israeli-occupied territories as a first and important step towards the exercise by the people of Palestine of their inalienable right to self-determination. Furthermore, contacts are now under way to ensure the resumption of negotiations on both the Syrian and the Lebanese tracks, which would lead to a just peace that would address, as we hope, in a an equitable and responsible manner, the concerns of all parties directly involved. Kuwait has expressed its support for these endeavours. It also participated in the multilateral meetings, while fully convinced that this formula is doomed to failure unless concrete and significant progress is achieved on all bilateral tracks. The multilateral formula, as we must always bear in mind, is an arrangement to back up the bilateral tracks, and not a by-pass to skirt them. It was in this spirit that Kuwait participated in the regional meetings, and out of our conviction that endorsement of and support for the peace process in the Middle East was in the final analysis a collective responsibility to be shared by the international community inasmuch as the entire world, not just certain protagonists, stands to gain from its benefits. For the record only, let me recall that Kuwait had participated in the ad hoc meetings on economic development for the territories subject to self-government. We contributed $25 million towards building the institutions required for the creation of the Palestinian National Authority. The People of Palestine have suffered over the past several decades unspeakable injustice and deprivation as a result of the loss of their land, the denial of their right to self-determination and from being prevented from establishing their national State. It is our hope now that this people, which is recognized for resourcefulness and a sense of purpose, will at long last be able to exercise its full rights like all other peoples, including the establishment of its State, whose capital would be Al-Quds Al-Shareef. Let me reiterate that the underpinnings of lasting stability and comprehensive peace as envisioned in Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), together with the concept of land for peace, require a firm political commitment to ensure progress on all tracks - especially the Syrian track, which is the cornerstone of the peace-building process. Full withdrawal from occupied Syrian territory is therefore essential. Equally essential is the complete and unconditional implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978), which requires a total Israeli pull out from southern Lebanon. In today's world, which is characterized by interrelated and complex interests and civilized conduct on the basis of compliance with the rule of law and respect for international treaties; in today's world, when the winds of modernism have been blowing even to the most distant regions, the Iraqi regime continues to be a menace to security and stability in our region. It persists in defying the collective will of the international community as represented by the Security Council. This is demonstrated by its failure thus far to comply unconditionally with all the Council resolutions relating to its aggression against the State of Kuwait. Its reaction has invariably been characterized by subterfuge, procrastination, equivocation and selectivity. Although more than four years have now passed since the Iraqi regime was defeated and its forces evicted from Kuwait, and regardless of its acceptance of all Security Council resolutions, including Security Council resolution 687 (1991), which set forth cease-fire conditions and highlighted regional security arrangements, the regime continues to refuse to address the core issue of the whole problem, namely recognition of the State of Kuwait and of its sovereignty within the international borders as demarcated, approved and endorsed by the United Nations and guaranteed by Security Council resolution 833 (1993), adopted under Chapter VII of the Charter. The international community's firmness in the face of the Iraqi regime's manoeuvres, the Security Council unanimity in its insistence on seeing the Iraqi regime fulfil all its obligations under Council resolutions are the right and appropriate response to the defiant stand of the Iraqi regime. At this juncture, let me outline Kuwait's policy regarding this fateful question. First, Iraq must unconditionally implement all Security Council resolutions relating to its aggression, especially resolution 687 (1991). Secondly, Iraq must accept Security Council resolution 833 (1993) regarding the demarcation of borders between Iraq and the State of Kuwait. Here, Kuwait insists that such acceptance should come in a clear and unequivocal manner. It should be formally documented by the Iraqi Revolutionary Command Council and the Iraqi National Council and published in the Iraqi Official Gazette. All the above should then be set out in a letter addressed to the Security Council and deposited as an official document in the records of the United Nations. Thirdly, Iraq should cooperate in good faith and in a responsible manner with the International Committee of the Red Cross in accounting for all Kuwaiti and third- country prisoners and detainees. Serious efforts must be made to resolve this long-standing humanitarian issue, which has long been exploited by the Iraqi regime as a bargaining chip for securing narrow gains. Fourthly, all provisions of Security Council resolutions relating to the return of Kuwaiti property and to compensation must be carried out. We would also like to see concrete implementation of the paragraphs relating to the Iraqi armament programme, the elimination of weapons of mass destruction and the export-import permanent control system. Fifthly, Iraq's regional behaviour should not jeopardize security and stability in the region. Iraq should respect the norms of good neighbourliness by renouncing its greedy claims and its policy of blackmail; it should cease intervening in the internal affairs of neighbour countries and abstain from sponsoring and supporting terrorism, and it should renounce the aggressive tendencies which have been its hallmark for too long. Once again, we would like to underline the fact that we in Kuwait are aware of the suffering of the people of Iraq and sympathize with the Iraqis who have had to endure hardship as a result of the policies pursued by a regime imposing itself by force on the Iraqi people. That is the very same regime which declines to utilize the mechanism offered to export oil under Security Council resolutions 706 (1991) and 712 (1991). In the same vein, let me emphasize that we would like to see the territorial integrity of Iraq preserved and safeguarded. This too is an essential component of regional stability. The whole set of Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq constitutes one indivisible political and legal whole. We cannot and should not tolerate the selective approach pursued by the Iraqi regime in implementing Council resolutions. Core issues must be addressed squarely by Iraq, otherwise it will remain under the illusion that it can dent the steadfast position of the Security Council. At this point, I wish to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Security Council, which demonstrated unanimity in its recent review of sanctions against Iraq on 14 September. The Council reaffirmed that the sovereignty and boundaries of the State of Kuwait under its resolution 833 (1993) are the essence of the matter and that this will form the basis of the Council's priorities in dealing with the sanctions regime. High among Kuwait's national priorities comes the issue of stability in the Gulf region. Accordingly, we have been working in close collaboration with other members of the Gulf Cooperation Council to resolve all the outstanding problems between Iran and the United Arab Emirates in regard to the three islands - Abu Moussa, Greater Tumb and Smaller Tumb - through dialogue and on the basis of respect for national rights and international treaties. Hence, we have supported the recent initiative by the United Arab Emirates to have recourse to the International Court of Justice, which is the international judicial organ that has the competence to resolve disputes between States. In the meantime, we are confident that both parties to the conflict will demonstrate reason and prudence and that they are eager to reach a just and peaceful settlement of the litigation through legal channels and in such a way that would not compromise the rights of the United Arab Emirates. Kuwait is following with deep concern the situation in Afghanistan. We appeal to all factions there to put the interests of the Afghani people ahead of all other considerations. We sincerely call upon them to put an end to the fighting and to help facilitate the current efforts of the United Nations to bring about national unity and channel energies towards reconstruction. We are distressed also by the increasing deterioration of the situation in sisterly Somalia. Again, we appeal to all factions that are engaged in the conflict there to demonstrate wisdom by acting in accordance with the interests of all Somali people. We pray for national reconciliation that will preserve the unity and independence of Somalia. The tragedy of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina is of great concern to the Government and people of Kuwait. Initially, we were optimistic that the efforts of the Contact Group would prove to be successful in reaching the comprehensive Peace Plan. The Bosnian Muslims and Croats gave the internationally supported peace plan their approval despite the fact that it did not satisfy all their legitimate demands. However, the Bosnian Serbs, in open defiance of the international will, rejected the Plan and, instead, relied on the use of force to impose a fait accompli and to exact territorial gains, at the expense of other parties. Kuwait believes that the Security Council should, without any further delay, lift the embargo imposed on arms supplies to the Bosnian Muslim to enable them to exercise their legitimate right of self-defence in the face of blatant aggression. In today's world it is totally unacceptable that we should all remain virtually passive witnesses to an exercise in which a minority, through the use of overwhelming military force, tramples the legitimate rights of the majority. In the context of global realities on the ground, the international community should not underestimate the gravity of problems faced by the developing nations in their pursuit of economic development and progress. Economic readjustment and restructuring, foreign-debt burdens and pressures of inflation are but a few of these weighty problems. These obstacles to development were recognized by Kuwait at an early stage. Hence, Kuwait took the initiative to write off loans of developing countries whose repayment was overdue. Parallel to that action, we have expanded the operations of the Kuwait fund for economic development. We have also increased our contributions to the regional and international financial institutions. For more than two decades now my country has been playing a leading role in the provision of aid to developing countries. The total assistance provided by Kuwait exceeds 4 per cent of its annual gross national product and is more than four times the suggested level of official development assistance. That being the case, we hope that developed countries will increase the level of their assistance with a view to reducing the current disparities in standards of living. An effort to narrow the gaps between the living conditions of peoples around the world would make a powerful impact on world peace and stability. Equally, the creation of job opportunities and the maintenance of hope in the future are essential for a peaceful life at home and to harmonious relations between nations. In this context, Kuwait welcomes the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade agreement that was achieved after long and arduous rounds of negotiations, and it looks forward to the entry into force of that agreement following the required endorsements. Dialogue, understanding and rapprochement are valuable tools in international relations. They facilitate our cooperation and our collective endeavours, as a family of nations, to meet our needs and fulfil our aspirations. If the fruits of technology and science can be fully harnessed for this purpose we shall reap the benefits thereof. The whole planet has indeed become a global village, in which we can closely follow world events as they unfold, thanks to the great leaps forward in the areas of science, technology, transportation, communications and information technology. If anything, this is a testimony to impressive human cooperation. Such cooperation, when anchored in dialogue and understanding, is perhaps the most viable option for bringing us closer to peace, stability and progress. Permit me first of all to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I am confident that under your skilful guidance the Assembly will move forward in responding to the many complex issues on our agenda. You are equally assured of the full and unstinting support of Guyana in the discharge of your responsibilities in the period ahead. Guyana was very honoured to have held the presidency of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. On behalf of the Government and the people of Guyana, I would like to express our gratitude and appreciation for the confidence and support given to Ambassador Insanally during his tenure of office. I have every confidence too that the work of the Organization will benefit much from the dynamic leadership of Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali and his dedicated staff. They deserve our admiration and encouragement in the performance of their praiseworthy but often difficult tasks. The forty-ninth session of the General Assembly takes place at a momentous time. There have been changes, many of which have had a significant impact on global relations. World events now testify to the need for an Organization which is equipped to meet every challenge posed to it. The world is observing the United Nations and will not fail to pass judgement on its activities. While much has been accomplished, there are still considerable challenges ahead of us. An overview of the United Nations and its achievements has pointed to a greater awareness of its role in the world. Increasingly, the Organization is being called upon to respond to and resolve critical situations confronting our global community. Our responses, while effective in many cases, are still inadequate. It is now imperative that we move beyond merely responding to individual crises to address the fundamental causes of conflict and threats to global stability. In the year ahead, Guyana will work with the Assembly to make the United Nations more responsive to the altered situation we face in the post-cold-war era. We shall strive with others to make the Security Council more equitable and effective, so that it may better discharge the functions allocated to it under the Charter. As a priority, we shall seek to promote the work of the Organization in the formulation and implementation of an agenda for development, which should complement “An Agenda for Peace”. Equally important, we will press for the revitalization of this Assembly in order that, as the most representative body of the United Nations, it may harmonize our efforts to promote global peace and development. Efforts to achieve peace and security in the face of overwhelming odds reflect the desire of Member States to dwell in harmony, however difficult such an aim may be. They also reflect the increasing importance of peaceful negotiations to settle conflicts and to solve economic, social and human problems. The eruption of conflicts, primarily within States, and the ever-present threat of eruption in other States has stymied the hope of a new international order that would address these issues and hopefully proffer solutions. In this context I wish to refer to the proposals of President Cheddi Jagan on a new global humanitarian order, in response to General Assembly resolution 47/106 of 16 December 1992. In his work, President Jagan has stressed the debilitating effects of poverty and hunger and the urgent need for concerted action to alleviate their effects. But apart from these classic humanitarian concerns, he has sought to broaden the tableau to include the entire spectrum of human development and related issues. Thus, he promotes the principles of international interdependence and cooperation which will recognize the primacy of human development as a sine qua non for a peaceful and orderly existence. He has emphasized the need for good governance and popular participation in decision-making as the cornerstone for a new type of development, which will take into consideration the satisfaction of basic human needs in health, education, housing and the right to productive employment for all. My Government has recognized that the question of basic human needs cannot be ignored. It is a prerequisite for good order and stability, which would in turn produce a stable political environment. Governments cannot afford to allow the growth of social discontent that is engendered by the vicious circle of debt, poverty and economic deprivation. There are many countries, not least my own, which suffer, not from open and violent conflict, but from the residue of a crushing external debt and the debilitating effects of an ongoing structural adjustment programme. In spite of all this, my Government is committed to providing for its people the basic necessities of health, housing, education and an economic and a social environment for both men and women to achieve their full potential. Some of the factors that inhibit advances towards a new economic and social order are attributed to the prevailing inequitable terms of trade and the persistent reduction in commodity earnings of exporters of primary products. However, social and economic problems are now not confined to developing countries. In this era of greater interdependence among nations and increasing globalization, issues and problems of economic growth and development, poverty, population growth and environmental destruction have become global. It is therefore necessary to first of all address the root causes of these problems before any tangible and lasting solutions are achieved. President Jagan’s proposals for a New Global Humanitarian Order have therefore taken into account the globalization of these pressing issues. His proposals directly relate to the work of the General Assembly on “An Agenda for Development”; the Rio de Janeiro Conference of 1992; the Conference of Small Island Developing States; the recently concluded World Conference on Population and Development; the forthcoming World Summit on Social Development; and the Fourth World Conference on Women. It is therefore my Government’s fervent hope that this forty-ninth session will result in positive measures being taken to address the economic, social and humanitarian problems prevailing in the world today. We have shown the capacity to resolve supposedly intractable problems. I may refer here to the end of the iniquitous system of apartheid, when we all felt a sense of pride and accomplishment at the readmission of South Africa to the United Nations on 23 June 1994. I may also refer to the Middle East where we have seen a marvellous example of what can be achieved through patient diplomacy and dialogue, by the recent signing of a Peace Accord between Israel and Jordan. 2 The earlier signature of the Declaration of Principles, together with the current self-rule in Gaza, point to the statesmanship of the leaders of Israel, the Palestinian people and the other parties to a conflict which has dragged on for far too long. We have seen the convening of a World Conference on Human Rights and the appointment of a High Commissioner for Human Rights, events which point to the increasing concern of the United Nations for the protection of human rights and for the improvement of the economic and social conditions of mankind. In my own region, we see the possibility of the restoration of democracy in Haiti. The multinational operation now under way, of which Guyana is a part, offers the hope that, notwithstanding its inherent difficulties, the illegal government will finally abandon power. Guyana is pledged to participate in the process leading to the prompt return of peace and stability in Haiti. The international community must now work together to assist in the rebuilding of that country’s institutions, as well as its economy, as a safeguard to its future welfare. We are happy that the United States and Cuba were able to meet here in New York and come to a positive agreement on the migration issue. We hope that the maturity displayed in those negotiations will spill over to a correlative issue, the economic embargo, and that Cuba will be allowed to pursue its economic rehabilitation for the benefit of its people. A peaceful resolution of the Cyprus problem, which has seemed to be elusive, continues to be our great desire. Guyana remains hopeful that the efforts of the Secretary- General and the goodwill of the parties involved will lead to a satisfactory solution. I am convinced that this Organisation can and will achieve greater success for a better world. I would therefore urge serious consideration of the “New Global Humanitarian Order”, which is aimed at fusing various aspects of past and future undertakings by this Assembly. This new order will effectively bridge the gap between rhetoric and implementation, and will succeed in dealing directly with the common problems which face us all. As we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, I appeal to those present here today to reflect on the spirit of solidarity which inspired the Charter of the United Nations. Let us therefore work together to enhance the role of this august body. Let us also, through mutual respect and tolerance, work to promote better relations between all nations and peoples. I bring with me the greetings and good wishes of His Majesty King Mswati III, Her Majesty the Indlovukazi, the Government and people of the Kingdom of Swaziland to all our friends and fellow Members of the United Nations. On behalf of Swaziland, may I begin by offering my sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. We are confident that with your able leadership our deliberations will be guided towards a successful conclusion, for the benefit of the global community. Let me also offer Swaziland’s gratitude and praise to your predecessor, whose wise direction ensured the success of the deliberations of the Assembly at its forty- eighth session. The past 12 months have presented many challenges to our Organization, in its pivotal role as an effective instrument for fostering global peace and security, and as a dynamic forum for promoting a spirit of understanding and cooperation among the nations of the world. Clearly, significant progress has been made in meeting these challenges, and my delegation recognizes the role of the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose diplomatic skills and untiring efforts have contributed so greatly to the continuing ability of the United Nations to achieve the successes on which the whole world depends. In April this year, the eyes of the world were focused on South Africa as the people of that country went to the polls to elect, for the first time, a Government that would represent all South Africans, regardless of race, religion or creed. Today, in a triumph for the spirit of reconciliation, peace and compromise among all South Africans, we welcome the new, non-racial and democratic South Africa back into the family of the United Nations. While congratulating the people of South Africa for their substantial achievement, the Kingdom of Swaziland also salutes the role of the United Nations in bringing about an end to a regime it had long opposed. As a result the millions of South African people who had been denied a voice in this Hall will once more be heard. South Africa’s triumph is therefore also a victory for the principle of universality, on which the United Nations was founded. As neighbour, partner and ally, Swaziland, and the other countries in the subregion, have particular reason to rejoice at the successful process of transition in South Africa. Quite apart from the benefit of peace to the area brought about by a successful political transformation, we all look forward to enjoying the fruits of closer economic and trade cooperation with the region’s most influential country. Swaziland has been most impressed with the very clear policy of His Excellency President Mandela, stated consistently since he took office in May, on the importance of close cooperation with others in the region. We have already welcomed South Africa into the Southern African Development Community, and other initiatives are under way to forge closer trade and economic links between our newly liberated neighbour and the rest of the subregion, for South Africa cannot expect to stand on its own in the future. It is a fact that the economic destinies of the nations in our subregion are inextricably bound together. Even as we celebrate the return of peace and stability in South Africa, our continent continues to provide some of the worst examples of people’s inhumanity to one another. Swaziland watched with horror as the tragedy unfolded earlier this year in Rwanda. Many words have been spoken here about the dreadful scenes we all witnessed, and our hearts went out to the millions whose lives were shattered by the effects of the civil war there. No other justification is needed to spur on our efforts to address the issue of conflict prevention and resolution than the loss of so many lives, so quickly, in Rwanda. We pray that a formula for true, lasting peace may be found, and that the two peoples may be able to find some way of living side by side with each other. The situations in Burundi, Liberia, Sudan and Somalia also continue to give us cause for grave concern. Swaziland supports all peaceful efforts aimed at bringing about negotiated settlements to the problems in these countries. Despite the many set-backs to peace on our continent, the past twelve months have also seen substantial progress among a number of countries - progress which owes much to the efforts of our Organization. I have spoken already of our admiration for the developments in one of our neighbouring countries, South Africa, which took the path of reconciliation and peace towards the much-needed process of reconstruction and development. The same degree of respect applies to our other neighbour, Mozambique, which, after so long a period of bitter hatred amongst its people, has at last chosen to lay down weapons in favour of the ballot box. Swaziland joins the world in praying for a peaceful election process later this month, and calls on the leaders to allow the same spirit of reconciliation and unity that brought an end to the war after so many years to continue after a new government has been chosen. We appeal to the international community to continue to provide the financial, technical, moral and material support that will be necessary for Mozambique to rebuild itself, and to give its people a chance to fulfil their high potential. The Kingdom of Swaziland warmly welcomes the agreement that brought about a peaceful solution to the situation prevailing in our sister Kingdom of Lesotho. We welcome the opportunity presented now for the Basotho people themselves to address their concerns. It is our fervent hope that the agreement will be implemented successfully, without undue delay, so that lasting peace and stability may come to the kingdom. The direct effects of developments on our continent are of obvious concern to the Kingdom of Swaziland. But in this day and age of global interdependence, the potential effects on us of situations outside Africa are of equal importance. Two recent developments provide particular cause for hope in areas of long-running dispute. In the Middle East, the seeds of peace and reconciliation, sown last year by Prime Minister Rabin and Chairman Arafat, and encouraged by the United States, Norway, the United Nations and others, are at last bearing fruit. Talk of trade and cooperation is replacing 2 the noise of gunfire, as the bitter rivalries of generations give way to a new order of peace in the region. Swaziland salutes all those who contributed to the process of peace in the Middle East; we appeal to the leaders of the region to join in the process and to allow it to continue without disruption, so that precious resources may be directed towards worthwhile development goals. The Kingdom of Swaziland has long been concerned about the spread of nuclear weapons, and the effect this has had on world stability. We were therefore encouraged by the recent initiatives on the part of the United States and Russia to substantially reduce the number of their weapons. We also support all efforts on the Korean peninsula, where disaster has been pending, to bring about real progress on the nuclear issue. This issue has been the focus of major instability for the entire far-east region, and Swaziland fully supports all efforts to bring about a peaceful resolution to the problem. We look forward to the peaceful reunification of the two Koreas, and encourage all moves to bring this to fruition. Wars and conflict situations in Africa and around the world continue to stretch our belief that people can ever live peacefully with one another. More and more, the resources of the United Nations are being overextended to meet the challenges these situations present, and conflict resolution finds itself close to the top of the agenda for action by this Assembly. Mercifully, the Kingdom of Swaziland has been spared the horrors of internal conflict, but no country can really feel immune to the effects of war and confrontation, wherever these may be occurring. Deciding on the best way for the world to cope with conflict situations is therefore a problem we all share, and we in Africa are conscious of our particular responsibility for deciding on mechanisms to limit, prevent and cope with conflict situations developing on our continent. This issue has been central during discussions at subregional and regional conferences. Most recently, important resolutions were adopted at the Organization of African Unity (OAU) summit in Tunis, and at the Southern Africa Development Community summit in Gaborone, which went some way towards deciding on the regional response to one of Africa’s most pressing problems. But despite almost unanimous willingness for our countries to become involved more directly in the continent’s conflicts, it was clearly recognized that the majority of us lacked the resources to lend an effective hand. The Kingdom of Swaziland therefore supports the growing call for an integrated approach to conflict resolution on our continent, which would bring close cooperation between Africa and the rest of the world by establishing mechanisms to coordinate the resources of both in the most effective way. The OAU is clearly in the best place to mobilize the efforts of its members - and most important of all, to undertake preventive diplomacy before a situation has the chance to develop - while the United Nations can continue to play its role as coordinator of the international response. Many of Africa’s present conflicts could well have been prevented or contained if properly coordinated mechanisms had already been in place. The Kingdom of Swaziland welcomes discussion here so that a plan of action can be agreed upon quickly on this vitally important issue. In this regard, and as a measure of Swaziland’s acceptance of her responsibility to the rest of the world, His Majesty King Mswati III announced at the OAU summit in Tunis this year that he would be taking steps to decide how best the Kingdom’s small defence force could be used alongside other troops in multinational forces for the benefit of global peace and stability. His Majesty has begun the process of investigating under what conditions the nation’s soldiers can be offered, bearing in mind the small size of the defence force and our relative lack of appropriate weapons and equipment. Clearly, we cannot allow our soldiers to enter into potentially dangerous situations without proper protection and without adequate training. These are some of the issues to be looked at before we can fully commit ourselves to taking this more active role in global peace-keeping, and we will be approaching the Secretary-General for consultations on this important initiative. This session of the General Assembly is entrusted with the task of discussing 'An Agenda for Development'. The focus of the world is on the requirement now to channel our resources towards achieving lasting global stability through the sustainable 3 development of our countries, providing us with improved standards for all our peoples. The welcome end to the period of confrontation between the world’s super-Powers should mean that increased global resources can now be redirected to achieving a new and more balanced world economic order. Closer attention can now be given to the plight of all developing countries, which continue to suffer the effects of serious development neglect. This crucial point was discussed at length at last weekend’s meeting of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Madrid, where the view of the developing world was made very clear. The continent of Africa contains the highest number of the world’s poorest countries, and any agenda for development should take into account the special circumstances surrounding the inability of this region to develop effectively. We in the region know ourselves, all too well, what factors continue to obstruct our progress. It is a familiar catalogue, including resource constraints; inappropriate development policies; the slow pace of industrialization and transformation into producers of processed goods; inadequate infrastructure; natural disasters; and a continuing round of armed conflicts. We know the problems, and we are trying our best to overcome them. We understand our responsibility to our people to mobilize our resources in the most effective way to overcome the obstacles to national development. The need is clear, and our resources and abilities are limited, but we are trying hard. We also recognize that we cannot hope to achieve long-term sustainable development without, at least, the short-term assistance of the rest of the global community. Much of what we need is contained in the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, and our continent’s collective appeal is for the swift and full implementation of its many programmes. But each nation has its separate, distinct needs. Swaziland welcomes recent initiatives towards strengthening South-South cooperation, and we believe they will result in real progress towards overcoming the economic challenges facing us all in that grouping. In trying to meet our national economic development objectives, the Kingdom of Swaziland has adopted a broad and integrated approach aimed at achieving sustainable, 'human-centred' development, through policies that focus on the priorities of the reduction of poverty, universal access to primary school, and affordable primary health care. Recent United Nations initiatives also guide us in our Government policies. As a follow-up to the Earth Summit, for example, we have established a national environmental authority to ensure that environmental concerns are properly integrated into all stages of public policy and national development strategy formulation. Swaziland welcomed the opportunity to address the recent United Nations Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, and the adoption of the Programme of Action constitutes a significant step in our collective aim. The Kingdom had already embraced the option of acceptable child spacing as the cornerstone of our population growth policy, and we have begun a comprehensive programme of education for our people in the realities of and efforts to deal with overpopulation. These and all aspects of the economic development of the Kingdom will be debated by the whole nation during the process of national economic consultation, which was recently initiated by His Majesty the King. The process is designed to allow all Swazis the opportunity to be involved in deciding the future direction of the Kingdom’s economy, and will embody the nation’s wishes for future priorities and strategies. These in turn will form the basis of our request for future support from our friends in the international community, and we will be keeping the United Nations fully informed of developments. The process follows on from last year’s very successful political reforms, resulting from a similar period of national consultation, which concluded last October with direct elections to Parliament under a new system of secret ballot. The democratic elections were declared free and fair by the international community and, more importantly, were what the Swazi people themselves had chosen. Both processes - political and economic reform - show clearly Swaziland’s principle of rule by consensus of the people. We believe this principle is at the heart of the peace and stability we have enjoyed for many generations, and it has spared us the horrors of internal conflict suffered by so many on our continent. 4 I spoke earlier of South Africa’s return to the international community, as, among other things, a triumph for the United Nations in upholding the principle of universality. The Kingdom of Swaziland urges the Assembly to apply the same principle to investigate the merits of the case of the Republic of China in Taiwan. His Majesty King Mswati III joined a number of other Heads of State in raising this issue at the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. His Majesty called for the establishment of an ad hoc committee to determine whether or not the Republic of China had a reasonable case for rejoining our Organization. This call has been taken up by an increasing number of countries that support the idea of looking into the issue in more detail. Quite apart from the principle of universality, there are other important factors for us to consider when reviewing the case. The Republic of China in Taiwan has much to offer to the world community. It clearly has the resources to be of more use to the rest of the international community. More important, though, is the desire of the Republic of China to be of use - and assistance - to the rest of the world. The Kingdom of Swaziland, along with a large number of other developing countries throughout Africa, Asia and the Americas, has had first-hand evidence of the Republic of China’s willingness to offer generous humanitarian and development assistance. As more and more worthy targets appear for the United Nations resources, we can surely ill afford to reject the call to investigate further whether that country’s assistance can be put to wider use through the agencies of our Organization. At the heart of the issue, though, is the fact that 21 million people believe that they are not represented in the United Nations. These people believe that they are excluded from our founding principle of universality. In consideration of this right, which they believe has been denied them, the time has surely come for us to listen to their voices. The Kingdom of Swaziland welcomes and supports the participation of the Republic of China In Taiwan in the activities of the United Nations, and we therefore call once more for the establishment of an ad hoc committee to review the case for their re-admittance to the Organization. The United Nations has a distinguished history of 49 years of growth and achievement. The challenges we faced almost 50 years ago, as the world emerged from global conflict, have changed in substance but not in importance. We have the opportunity now, in this forum, to lay the foundations for an agenda for development that will bring about the stability and peace we all desire. The Kingdom of Swaziland is proud of its membership of the United Nations and commends the work of all who have contributed to the many successes over the years. The nation is deeply indebted to the United Nations agencies, whose efforts are contributing so much to the attainment of our development goals. On behalf of His Majesty King Mswati III, Her Majesty the Indlovukazi, and the whole Swazi nation, I should like to reaffirm my country’s full support for, and commitment to, the Charter of the United Nations. May Almighty God bless these deliberations with the success they deserve. First, I should like to offer you, Sir, my personal congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, and also those of the European Union, on whose behalf I am addressing the Assembly today. We wish you luck and success in your high office. We thank Ambassador Insanally for the wise leadership with which he guided the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly to a successful conclusion. I am addressing the Assembly on behalf of a Europe that has become more closely integrated as a result of the Maastricht Treaty, a Europe which in a few weeks’ time will admit four new members, and which intends to broaden its cooperation based on partnership with the world’s other regions as well. I am speaking for a Europe that is committed to world peace and development and whose political actions are determined by its belief in individual freedom, democracy and the rule of law, a Europe which sees in the realization of justice a crucial precondition for avoiding war and the use of force and which is prepared to play its part in promoting the economic development of all regions, the struggle against hunger, and measures to protect the Earth’s natural sources of life. But I am speaking above all on behalf of a Europe that wishes to place the United Nations in a better position to meet its foremost obligation as guarantor of peace and security in the world. Next year’s fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations coincides with that marking the end of the Second World War. The founding of the United Nations was the response to that catastrophe, which had its origins in Europe. Today we can look back on impressive achievements by the United Nations. The 51 members in 1945 have grown into a membership of 184. The United Nations has thus developed into a truly universal Organization. By recently concluding the negotiations on the Law of the Sea Convention, the United Nations has made outstanding progress in promoting the reconciliation of interests and the peaceful settlement of disputes around the world. The choice of Hamburg as seat of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea is a token of confidence in Germany and an obligation for my country. The achievements of the United Nations are considerable, yet it is often the object of unfair criticism. The United Nations can be only as good as its Members allow it to be. It needs their active support. Many of its personnel, both soldiers and civilians, have done their utmost to help alleviate distress and save lives. No small number of them have lost their own lives in the process. We pay tribute to them and honour their memory. 15 Many of us believed that the ending of the cold war would usher in an era of peace. Today we know, unfortunately, that that hope was premature. Day in and day out, hundreds of people are falling victim to hostilities and thousands more are dying of starvation or disease. What has happened and is still happening in Bosnia, Somalia and Rwanda is appalling. The European Union sees a response to these global challenges in a strengthening of the United Nations and of the multilateral system for the safeguarding of peace world wide, in more intensive preventive diplomacy and conflict prevention within the United Nations and regional institutions, in respect for human rights in the world and for the rule of law, and in closer development cooperation in and among the regions. We Europeans therefore welcome the report of the Secretary-General on an Agenda for Development. An Agenda for Development must soon find its place alongside the Agenda for Peace. With his report, Mr. Boutros-Ghali has again pointed the way for our Organization’s future development and work. I wish to convey to him the appreciation of the European Union. We pledge a constructive contribution to the debate on this document. Following the disaster of the Second World War, Europe had the opportunity for political renewal and it took that opportunity. We Europeans derive courage and strength from that renewal. No other region in the world has such a dense network of regional, intergovernmental and supranational institutions, and no region in the world has such close relations with other nations and their organizations. In the field of security, therefore, it is our aim to create a network of mutually supporting institutions which will include, together with the European Union (EU), the Western European Union (WEU), the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). All must work closely with the United Nations. NATO and the WEU are already helping the United Nations to carry out its difficult mission in the former Yugoslavia. Because our interests are interwoven as they have always been, we will not allow ourselves to be discouraged by set-backs and will therefore do our utmost to bring about a peaceful settlement in the former Yugoslavia. The United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) has our unreserved support. The terrible war of destruction in Bosnia and Herzegovina must be brought to an end. Federation is, we believe, a first and indispensable step towards a peace settlement. Winter will be here soon and the people will once again have cold and hunger to contend with. But the precondition for lasting progress and for peace is the will for reconciliation among all ethnic groups. The European Union is trying to help, and we shall continue to do so. For that reason we have established an administrative office in Mostar, which began its work in July under the courageous leadership of Hans Koschnick. The entire international community must constantly make it unmistakably clear to the Bosnian Serbs that in rejecting the peace plan they cannot reckon with tacit approval. There must be no toleration of a policy of war and expulsion. We seek a solution for the Croatian territories under UNPROFOR protection which will be acceptable to both sides. The territorial integrity of Croatia must be respected. Autonomy arrangements will have to be found for the Krajina Serbs. We Europeans believe that an extension of the mandate of UNPROFOR is absolutely essential for this purpose. The United Nations envisages a world in which it is not the law of the strongest but rather international law that prevails. We Europeans share that vision. We are even more convinced by what has happened in the former Yugoslavia that a relapse into divisive nationalism must be prevented. We, the Members of the United Nations, must summon the strength to make a great joint effort to provide the United Nations and its Secretary-General with the means to meet their global responsibility. The United Nations must become what its founding fathers aspired to in their noble vision nearly 50 years ago: mankind’s principal guardian of the peace. But we, the Members of the United Nations, must above all be prepared to stand up for the cause of peace. The members of the European Union have played, and are continuing to play, a major role in helping maintain or restore peace in many of the world’s trouble spots on behalf of the United Nations. We Europeans are guided by the following basic principles. First, for its peace-keeping measures the United Nations should be able to rely on the broadest possible support and involvement of its Members. Such operations ought to foster peace and unity among them but not divide the community of nations. 16 Secondly, we Europeans will always be in favour of giving priority to non-military means of safeguarding peace wherever possible. But aggressors must also realize that the United Nations is capable of military intervention where other means of achieving the aims of the Charter have failed, and that it has the will to take such action. Thirdly, the use of military force cannot be an end in itself. Successful peace-keeping presupposes an unequivocal mandate based on international law, a convincing political plan for settling the conflict, and the equitable participation of the Member States. Fourthly, we Europeans welcome the idea of stand-by arrangements developed by Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali. It can effectively help reduce the length of time between the decision to mount a peace-keeping operation and its actual implementation. Many members of the European Union, including Germany, are willing to contribute to stand-by arrangements. Fifthly, in many countries military training is geared solely to the traditional duties of the army. The specific tasks of peace-keeping require a completely different kind of training. The national preparation of Blue Helmets needs to be coordinated to a greater degree by the United Nations. What is needed for this are common training guidelines and the training capacity of the United Nations. Joint training and exercises are, at the same time, important steps in confidence-building. Speaking as the Foreign Minister of Germany, I would add that last year I stated in the Assembly that my country was willing to shoulder more responsibilities with regard to United Nations peace-keeping operations. Today I can confirm that Germany will be able to join fully in peace-keeping operations of the United Nations, the German Federal Constitutional Court having cleared the way a few months ago. The European Union looks for the revitalization of the United Nations and its various organizations. In the course of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly a working group considered all aspects of the question of increasing the membership of the Security Council and other matters related to the Security Council. The working group had a substantive and constructive discussion. Its report states that '... while there was convergence of views that the membership of the Security Council should be enlarged, there was also agreement that the scope and nature of such enlargement require further discussion.' (A/48/47, para. 8) Security Council reform is an important issue which requires a productive outcome. These days, the most important decisions on security and peace are made in the Security Council. We therefore look forward to a report on enlargement of the Security Council membership and related issues from the open-ended working group, and to productive results. Transparency in the Council’s decision-making processes is important, particularly in peace-keeping, where the interests of contributor nations are involved. Indeed, the cost of establishing and consolidating peace is enormous. The explosion of the peace-keeping budget has almost brought the United Nations to a standstill. In order to overcome the financial crisis, three tasks must be accomplished. The United Nations urgently requires more efficient management and better organization. The creation of the Office of Internal Oversight Services by the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session was an important step towards this objective, and the fact that a German has been appointed as the first head of that Office is a mark of confidence in my country. Members’ contributions must be brought more into line with their actual capacity to pay. The aim of comprehensive financial reform must be to establish a scale that is transparent and reliable, reflects Members’ financial situations, is automatically adapted to changed national circumstances, and gives consideration to the needs of countries with low per capita incomes. But it is crucial that all Members be willing to meet their membership obligations. We cannot have a situation in which the United Nations has difficulty carrying out its responsibilities because individual Members feel exempted from their duties. It is always better to prevent a fire than to have to put it out. The European experience is that conflicts must be prevented -but this is not a purely European experience. We bank on the power of preventive diplomacy, confidence-building and the early detection of conflicts. The United Nations must further enlarge and strengthen its instruments of preventive diplomacy. This includes helping countries along the road to democracy and observing elections. The establishment of and respect for human and minority rights, as well as measures to bring about economic and social stability, are other basic elements of prevention. 17 The Declaration and Programme of Action of the World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna calls for more active implementation. Our priority must be to support the High Commissioner for Human Rights. In addition, we must substantially increase the resources available in the United Nations for human rights activities. It is, I believe, inadequate for the United Nations to provide only 1 per cent of its funds for this task. Work on the establishment of an international criminal court must proceed apace. Human rights and the protection of minorities are indivisibly linked. Ethnic or cultural arrogance and the curtailing of minority rights are one cause of the ever-swelling refugee flows in our world today. That is why minorities need the protection of the United Nations. We Europeans are striving to implement this objective. In Europe, the Pact on Stability is designed to promote political stability and the protection of minorities. We do not want to close our eyes to our own shortcomings. There must be no room for racism and xenophobia in Europe. That is why we have made it our goal to develop a Union-wide strategy against racism and xenophobia in the course of the coming year. We need more efficient management of humanitarian relief actions. The need for resources and measures to alleviate emergency situations through disaster relief operations is likely to increase rather than decrease. We expect the United Nations Disaster Relief Coordinator to ensure more effective coordination of measures within the United Nations system. He must be able to intervene before it is too late for the people affected. I should like to stress that point. Work on the drafting of a convention for the protection of the work of humanitarian organizations must be brought to a speedy conclusion. One task of preventive policy as we understand it is to combat terrorism. There is no justification for terrorism. Drugs and organized crime are an ever-increasing danger not only to our young people, but also to the social and political stability of whole societies. To combat these dangers we need international alliances, and we need them urgently. The European Union offers comprehensive cooperation and the experience it has gained in this field. Disarmament policy, too, is preventive policy. Over the past few years, major successes have been attained in this field. These must now be made irreversible. The START Treaties must be implemented quickly. In Europe, the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces has proved to be a milestone. Uncleared mines are amongst the worst legacies of war and civil war. We Europeans are in favour of the establishment of a United Nations fund for mine-clearing and of more stringent provisions under international law to protect civilian populations. The increasing proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the continuing operation of unsafe nuclear plants and the smuggling of plutonium and other nuclear materials are among the new global dangers of our age. We must counter them at the national and global levels. We Europeans urgently appeal to North Korea to fulfil its international obligations. We in the European Union are committed to the indefinite, unconditional extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In Geneva, we want to arrive at a universal and universally verifiable comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. I believe that it is also high time that consensus was reached there on negotiations to bring about a ban on the manufacture of weapons-grade fissile material. The European Union, together with its partners, is providing considerable funds for improving the safety of nuclear plants in the neighbouring countries to our east. What happened at Chernobyl must never, ever be repeated. That would indeed be terrible. I appeal to all signatory States to ensure speedy ratification and implementation of the chemical weapons Convention at the national level in order for it quickly to become fully effective. The dangers I have just mentioned affect us all. As those dangers have a global dimension, action by the United Nations, too, is called for. At its summit meeting on 31 January 1992, the Security Council rightly stated that the proliferation of all weapons of mass destruction constitutes a threat to international peace and security. The United Nations, the Security Council and all of us must resolutely shoulder our responsibility to overcome these new threats. A fair balancing of interests through the ever-closer regional integration of States and ever-increasing cooperation between regions of our planet in the spirit of Article 1 of the Charter of the United Nations are the necessary response to the huge economic, ecological and social challenges and the manifold ethnic conflicts we are facing today - unfortunately, I might add. No one region 18 alone can master the global tasks confronting us. Nor can the United Nations accomplish everything itself. The burden on the United Nations can be substantially reduced with the help of regional associations and cooperation. We should strive to achieve that objective. For Europe, the post-war era has finally reached an end. A few weeks ago, the last Russian soldiers left Germany. Russian troops have also withdrawn from the Baltic States and other Eastern European countries. Now the aim must be to prevent new divides from emerging in Europe. The European Union will become not a 'Fortress Europe' but a Europe based on partnership and solidarity. The European Union is supporting the countries of Central and Eastern Europe on their way to democracy and the establishment of market economies. The peoples in the reformist States fought for their freedom. We encouraged them in their struggle and we will not now abandon them. We will gradually smooth their path towards the Euro-Atlantic institutions. It is important to mention that there will be no pan-European order of peace without or against Russia. The European Union has concluded partnership and cooperation agreements with Russia and Ukraine. The North Atlantic Alliance’s 'Partnership for Peace' enhances Europe’s security. The CSCE, as a new instrument of conflict-prevention, confidence-building and conflict resolution, can set an example for other regions of the world. And it can, as a regional arrangement under Chapter VIII of the Charter, relieve the United Nations as the guardian of peace. At the CSCE Summit in December the European Union will urge, on the basis of a German-Dutch initiative, that the CSCE be given priority in conflict settlement and prevention within its area and that it be equipped accordingly. The European Union wants to further extend and tighten its network of regional cooperation. Transatlantic relations with the United States and Canada remain the cornerstone of European policy. The Summit meeting between the European Union and the United States in Berlin in July this year confirmed our resolve to further strengthen transatlantic relations. We are seeking closer relations with the countries of Asia. In Germany a few days ago we discussed with the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) the possibilities for even more intensive political and economic cooperation. We are following with interest ASEAN’s initiative to launch a policy dialogue on security in South-East and East Asia, and I wish to emphasize the European Union’s interest in and willingness to cooperate more closely with the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC). The European Council meeting in Corfu reaffirmed that it attaches great importance to relations with the countries of Latin America and with their regional associations. The institutionalized dialogue with the Rio Group has become for us an important element for the consolidation of democracy and peace. We intend to broaden the cooperation agreement with the States of the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR). Through its policy on the Mediterranean, the European Union will have made available a total of roughly $9.6 billion between 1975 and 1996. Europe attaches great importance to security in the Mediterranean. From the outset the European Union actively supported the Middle East peace process, playing a leading role in international assistance for the development of the Palestinian economy and society. With the roughly $600 million earmarked for direct aid from 1994 to 1998, the European Union is the Palestinians’ largest international donor. Cooperation in southern Africa has made great strides. The course South Africa has embarked upon under Nelson Mandela shows that it is possible for former adversaries to be reconciled and to shape a common future, given the necessary political will and wise leadership. At the Berlin conference with the States of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) early this month the European Union initiated a new phase of cooperation with southern Africa. We in Europe want closer dialogue with the Organization of African Unity (OAU) on conflict prevention and security cooperation because we want partnership with the countries of Africa and thereby a greater United Nations peace-keeping capacity. Agreement on an agenda for development is becoming ever more urgent. One billion people in this world are still living in absolute poverty. Global expenditure on arms still amounts to as much as the income of half of the five and a half billion people on our planet. Poverty, increasing demographic pressure and irresponsible harming of the environment have made the 19 dangers to peace and stability greater, not smaller. The Conference on Environment and Development in Rio and the International Conference on Population and Development, which ended in Cairo a few days ago, confirmed that there are no simple answers to global problems. The two conferences none the less sent out an encouraging signal: there is growing recognition that we must tackle such problems together, and this I believe is a very important basis for the World Social Summit, which will be held next year in Denmark. In many countries women are still excluded from active participation in public life. We expect the World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing next year, to heighten awareness of this. In the Maastricht Treaty we Europeans for the first time made development policy an integral part of a treaty system for Europe. We undertook to seek the sustainable economic and social development of the South, to promote its integration into the global economy and to combat poverty. Despite the huge budget difficulties facing its member States, the European Union has increased its development assistance from over $1 billion in 1988 to almost $3 billion today. Funds for emergency disaster relief and food aid were increased to $1 billion this year. Even more important than such financial transfers, however, is the task of integrating the countries of the South into the world economy. Without doubt, the conclusion of the Uruguay Round improved the chances of growth for all States participating in world trade. The aim now must be for the Treaty to enter into force on 1 January 1995, as planned, and for the newly-established World Trade Organization to commence work. The treaty-based cooperation between the European Union and the other regions of the world is designed to further liberalize world trade. Every region should be able to participate in the European market. That is why we want to complete the forthcoming review of Lomé IV, including the new finance protocol, on time, and we are working to achieve that end. Speaking here last year I suggested the development of an early detection capacity for environmental disasters in developing countries, and for the European Union I can today say this: World-wide energy consumption is increasing, although the use of fossil fuels is already endangering climatic stability. In particular, we, the industrialized countries, therefore need a more environment-friendly and resource-friendly attitude on the part of producers and consumers and increased recycling of raw materials. Reducing carbon dioxide emissions must be tackled as a matter of urgency. The destruction of the forests continues mercilessly. Soil erosion, loss of bio-diversity and impaired regeneration are the consequences. This destruction must be halted. We Europeans will seek better international cooperation in the United Nations for the sustainable utilization and protection of the forests. The United Nations is the guardian not only of peace, but also of the environment. The historian Arnold Toynbee was right when he concluded that people are entirely capable of learning from disasters and finding responses to historic challenges. Today we Europeans know that only integration and cooperation lead to the desired goal, and the international community’s response to the global problems is and has to be to strengthen the United Nations. Our central tasks for the future are: first, to secure peace world-wide; secondly, to respect human rights and the rule of law; and, thirdly, to create the conditions for lasting stability through economic and social development. Our common goal is to create a better world for all. But the determination with which we implement this goal in practice is the precondition for success against which we will be measured. Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth regular session and to offer you the fullest cooperation of the Guatemalan delegation in the important tasks before you. I also wish to express deserved appreciation to Ambassador Samuel Insanally for the manner in which he discharged his duties as President during the last session. The Latin American and Caribbean region is justifiably proud of his performance. I wish also to convey our appreciation to Secretary- General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for his skilful helmsmanship of the activities of the Organization. We again offer him our support in his endeavours. In the light of the great changes that have taken place in recent years, we come to this Assembly full of hope and expectation. In some regions of the world events make it possible for us to look ahead with optimism to a future of peaceful coexistence between nations. At the same time, in other regions we look with concern on the inflammation of new hotbeds of tension that lead to a weakening of the power of the State as the catalyst among various social sectors. This situation seriously threatens the social fabric and the very norms that make it possible for human beings to live together in peace. As far as Guatemala is concerned, international relations must be grounded in profound respect for the principles and norms of international law. Peaceful coexistence can be achieved only by means of absolute respect for the sovereignty, independence and legal equality of States. 19 Multilateralism has been given new impetus in the new international context and constitutes a more intense, more comprehensive contribution to the search for solutions to problems old and new. To the extent that we place our faith in multilateral action and are able to define it properly and efficiently, we will be able to move forward in developing a stable international order that enables us to foster peace and well-being for mankind. Within this international landscape, which has also transformed the concept of global security, we face the challenge of understanding and coping with the new risks looming over mankind. Guatemala is at a moment of special importance in its history. Still fresh are the historic and unprecedented events in which the people of Guatemala organized and mobilized and demonstrated its profound democratic convictions, making it possible to restore constitutional order, which had broken down, and carrying the former human rights prosecutor to the presidency. The background of our President Leon Carpio is well known and constitutes the best guarantee of the commitment and determination of the Government of Guatemala to struggle for the full enjoyment of human rights and the search for peace through dialogue and negotiation. The Government has amply demonstrated its political will through concrete actions aimed at resolving a very broad and complex range of problems. It has done so by pursuing an economic, social and cultural policy that takes into account the multicultural nature of our country, including proposals from civilian society, which naturally include those emanating from the indigenous population of Guatemala. Our commitment to human rights has also been unquestionably strengthened by the important progress made in the peace negotiations with the Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca (URNG) with a view to ending one of the lengthiest armed conflicts in Latin America. Among the elements of progress made in the negotiations, the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights, with international validity and verification, is of particular importance. In the process of negotiations, the following agreements have been signed this year: the Framework Agreement for the Resumption of the Negotiating Process, signed in Mexico on 10 January 1994, which provides for all agreements to include national and international verification mechanisms and that the United Nations be responsible for the international ones; the Agreement on a Timetable for the Negotiation of a Firm and Lasting Peace; the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights signed in Mexico on 29 March 1994; the Agreement concerning the resettlement of displaced persons, signed in Oslo on 17 July 1994; the Agreement on the Commission of Inquiry, signed in Oslo on 23 June 1994. All Guatemalans and the international community are fully aware of the firm resolve of the Government to negotiate responsibly and with determination to achieve peace agreements within the agreed timetable. The patience and flexibility of the Government of Guatemala are well known and have made it possible to reach agreement despite many difficulties. The representatives of the countries in the Group of Friends - Mexico, Colombia, Spain, Norway, the United States and Venezuela - can testify to this. The Framework Agreement and the Timetable establish the parametres for negotiations, limiting both parties to a certain format and time-frame. The moderator convenes meetings in accordance with the Timetable and the parties attend and negotiate in conformity with the established procedures. These are the agreed rules and no party can capriciously change them, much less try to usurp the function of verifying compliance with the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights. Full compliance with that Agreement is to be verified by a machinery requested of the United Nations by both parties. On this basis, the mandate of the mission known as the United Nations Human Rights Verification Mission in Guatemala was established by General Assembly resolution. My country would like to thank the international community, the Group of Friends and the United Nations for their assistance in the quest for peace. It is clear that fundamental rights and freedoms, political democracy and the right to development are indivisible and interdependent. Those countries like ours that have experienced the tragedy of armed conflict know from experience that there are other, broader connotations to the right to development and that it is not possible to have development and social evolution without peace. At the same time, the full enjoyment of human rights is not possible without development or peace. The international community has been firm and decisive in its political support for democratic processes. We have to believe that it will pursue this course in seeking to strengthen and 20 refine them. Regrettably, however, the processes involved in national reconciliation have not been understood, and support for the processes of development has been insignificant; worse yet, development has been blocked, thus impeding access to sources of finance and to international markets. If the development model and reconciliation are allowed to fail, democracy will fail too and we shall never achieve secure and lasting peace, because if the population loses faith in the democratic system we shall inevitably return to authoritarianism. The international community has the responsibility to support economic and social development and to foster the processes of reconciliation if it would have all the nations of the world living under democracy. International condemnation and pressure might be effective in fostering democracy, but they are not sufficient in and of themselves to establish it on a solid and lasting footing. The Government of Guatemala reiterates its policy of wide-ranging cooperation with the United Nations system in the field of human rights. It has also demonstrated to the international community its readiness to negotiate peace agreements within the scheduled timetable. It hopes that, in the face of a refusal by the URNG to return to the negotiating table or to disarm and demobilize itself after its non-binding signature, that party’s sources of finance will be closed off to prevent armed action that would be totally unwarranted. The people of Guatemala has shown itself to be a champion of democracy and dedicated to its improvement. We urge the other party to recognize that its integration into legitimacy by means of negotiation is the only feasible course that would allow it to participate in the building of a new Guatemala. Guatemalans believe that the authority of the State should be based on the mandate of its people, that any Government must act with the consent of the majority of the governed, and that the voice of the people must be heard in the formulation and implementation of government policy. As far as we are concerned, these are vital and fundamental components of democracy. We understand that there may be differences of opinion as to the form of the people’s expression of this mandate and its participation in the various political forums of the State. We also believe that no State has the right to impose its political system on any other. For us, the fundamental characteristics of the system should be the legitimacy of the people’s mandate, the authenticity of its consent to be governed and the effectiveness of its participation. Similarly, democracy between States requires strict and meticulous respect for the United Nations Charter. Guatemala participates with the Central American countries in a process of regional integration that has undergone institutional renewal. We consider integration to be a process deeply rooted in our common history and culture and an instrument of momentous importance for the development of our peoples. For this reason, together with the other countries of the region, we are pursuing important initiatives such as the Alliance for Sustainable Development, whose principles are based on improving the quality of life of our peoples, respect for and development of the diverse potential and vitality of the Earth in a sustainable manner, the promotion of peace and democracy as basic forms of human coexistence and respect for human rights and the multicultural and multi-ethnic nature of our region. Furthermore, Guatemala is active in other regional initiatives, such as the forthcoming ecological Summit in Nicaragua and the International Conference on Peace and Development, which will take place in Honduras. Both of these events are part of the region’s endeavours to promote economic and social development in Central America. In connection with the territorial dispute over Belize, the Government of Guatemala will now be assisted by a council made up of distinguished citizens, whose advice will make it possible to define and give impetus to the procedure for solving this dispute in the framework of the position, well-known to the international community, that is set forth in document A/49/94 of 14 March this year. The Government of Guatemala reiterates its readiness to continue direct discussions with the Governments of Belize and the United Kingdom, in conformity with the norms established for the peaceful settlement of disputes, in order to arrive at a definitive solution to the territorial dispute that exists between our States, a position that Guatemala has unswervingly and constantly upheld. Guatemala wishes to reiterate its support for and solidarity with the people of Haiti, reaffirming its commitment to democracy and consequently to the legitimately elected Government. In addition, it urges the international community to seek a lasting solution to the Haitian crisis that would set out not merely to restore 21 democracy but also to meet the basic needs of the population. My country feels bound to express its wish to see in Cuba a peaceful transition to a democratic and pluralistic regime. At the same time, we wish to express our gratification at the new possibilities for dialogue that have been developed in connection with the situation in that country. We also wish to mention our satisfaction with the agreements reached between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization and between Israel and Jordan. These represent a momentous step forward in the quest for a solution to one of the most complex regional conflicts. Such agreements are unquestionably proof that peaceful coexistence and understanding among States and nations is possible, even in certain parts of the world where walls of hostility and mistrust have been built up over the years. We hail all the peoples of that region and call on them to continue in their efforts to build peace. Alongside these positive actions, we feel duty-bound to voice our profound concern at the events that have taken place in Rwanda. International cooperation must be generously channelled to that country. It should be regarded as part of an integrated effort to assist its Government in the difficult process of rebuilding the State with a view to ensuring that it is effective in tackling the serious problems still persisting in the country. We also share the concerns about the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The international community must continue in its efforts to convince the parties to the conflict of the imperative need to find an appropriate solution that will put an end to this irrational conflict. This conflict cannot be allowed to become a permanent situation. Guatemala is a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural country, and it views with great satisfaction the international instruments that are being developed with a view to integrating indigenous peoples into development. Consistent with the precepts of our Magna Carta, the Government is pursuing policies designed to recognize, respect and encourage their lifestyles, customs, traditions, social organization, languages and dialects, while also providing protection to indigenous agricultural lands and cooperatives. With respect to the question of women, I should underscore that the policy of the Government has been to cooperate with other sectors of Guatemalan society in order to pursue measures designed to expand the scope for participation by women in the productive process and in decision-making. Within the structure of the State itself, there is an ever-growing number of women holding high positions, at the same time bearing a share in major responsibilities relating to the building of a prosperous future for our society. At the same time, Government action is designed to strengthen mechanisms designed to protect women, mechanisms which are in conformity with the resolutions adopted by this Organization designed to advance the rights of women. Turning now to attention given to children, the Government is fostering joint activities with non- governmental organizations in the private sector with a view to combating drug addiction, illiteracy, malnutrition, abandonment and other problems of children. The World Summit for Social Development offers us an opportunity to tackle development as a priority of the international community and to redress the inequities that are increasingly widening between developed and developing countries. The progress that has been achieved in the course of the work of the Preparatory Committee must be further pursued, achieving the consensus needed for the adoption of the draft declaration and the programme of action. The common interests of the developing world must find reflection in the agendas of international forums and agencies. To this end, mutual cooperation is the proper vehicle, and the coordination endeavours of the developing countries among themselves should be stepped up. Guatemala has acceded to the international instruments designed to eradicate drug trafficking. The present Government attaches priority to combating this scourge. It goes without saying that we need solidarity and international cooperation in order to eradicate it. The economies of the developing world have had to make great efforts to adapt and open up to world markets, efforts which, in most cases, have had a high social cost. Guatemala takes the view that trading relations among States need to be based on the free exchange of goods and services. We all need trade, and this makes it vital to break down the barriers placed in its way, in accordance with the spirit and principles of the World Trade Organization. 22 As a consequence of the changes taking place in the international arena, the United Nations has undertaken a process of restructuring in an attempt to respond to the new requirements of international relations. Guatemala believes there is a need to reform the world Organization, and in this respect we support the revitalization of the Economic and Social Council, which would enable it to function in keeping with present requirements. We are also in favour of establishing a better balance between the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretariat that would allow the Assembly to play a more decisive role as a forum for deliberation, negotiation and decision-making on all global problems. In this connection, Guatemala believes that the question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council holds pride of place in the process of reforming this Organization. During this process structures that emanated from and operated within a world of confrontation should be reformed. The Security Council should be restructured with a view to achieving representation that is proper and equitable and reflects the current international situation. Guatemala notes with satisfaction the measures taken by the Secretary-General to adapt the Organization to the new international environment and to equip it with the means to fulfil the objectives of the Charter. In this respect, Guatemala has offered to participate in the formation of the stand-by forces. Peace-keeping operations are multiplying daily. No one can deny that the role played by these forces in dealing with a very large number of conflicts has prevented them from worsening and has allowed latitude for dialogue and negotiation. For this reason, they need to be given the appropriate means for carrying out their activities, which should always be based on the consent of the parties concerned so as to safeguard the sovereignty of States and respect for their domestic jurisdiction. They should act on the basis of clearly defined mandates and well-delineated fields of action. The promotion of world peace should be one of the central issues addressed by this Organization. In this context, the limitation of arms production continues to be necessary. All the resources used in weapons research and development should be released and used to promote the well-being of our peoples. Nuclear disarmament should also be one of the major objectives on the agenda of the international community in the coming years. For this reason, and because of our peace-loving tradition, we shall continue to strive to ensure that at the meeting of States parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to be held in 1995 the Treaty’s validity should be extended indefinitely. The ultimate aim of the contribution of each and every one of our nations to this Organization is the overall development of the human being. All nations wish to see all their citizens enjoying the benefits of comprehensive development. To achieve this there must be cooperation between all the nations of the Earth. My Government therefore is very pleased to associate itself with the cordial welcome extended by the Organization to South Africa on the occasion of its reintegration into the United Nations, as well as to the new Observers, especially the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, whose humanitarian impact on the world has been of great importance. This gives full validity to the principle of universality, which should prevail in the United Nations. And this belief prompts us to touch on the question of a country which is capable of making a significant contribution to the search for solutions to the problems that the nations of the world must face. The entry of the Republic of China, Taiwan, into the United Nations would strengthen the Organization, permitting and encouraging it to deal properly with topics with global implications. Guatemala reaffirms its firm and resolute determination to meet the commitments and responsibilities it has undertaken in relation to its own people and the international community, in order to assist in building a fairer, more peaceful and developed world. May I offer you, Sir, our sincere congratulations on your election to the high post of President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. We are confident that under your able guidance the General Assembly will make significant progress on the important issues before it. We express our deep gratitude to Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana for his admirable work during his presidency. At the outset, I wish to extend our heartfelt felicitations to the Republic of South Africa, which has begun its advancement along the road of democracy by dismantling the apartheid regime of racial discrimination and has assumed its rightful place in the community of nations. This historic event testifies to the fact that the purposes and principles that guide the United Nations, including that of respect for human rights, can be translated into reality. A number of other meaningful positive developments have taken place on the international scene over the last year, events that are inextricably linked to the tortuous emergence of a new atmosphere in the wake of the cold war. None the less, instability continues to plague various corners of the globe, bearing witness to the extreme difficulty of finding solutions to problems; hence the urgent need to harmonize our efforts and enhance the role of the United Nations. The international community is on the threshold of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. As part of the world-wide preparations for this event, a committee has been established in Mongolia to coordinate national activities. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations coincides with the demise of the cold war, the advent of a new era of mutual trust and partnership among nations and the emergence of unprecedented opportunities to implement the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. This anniversary will serve as an important moment of reflection on the Organization’s 4 past, the lessons from both its successes and its failures and the tasks ahead of us. The world community expects the anniversary session next year to be crowned by the adoption at the summit level of a visionary document embodying its hopes and aspirations and outlining meaningful objectives for the new millennium. It is against this background that we see the special significance of this session of the General Assembly, which is to lay a sound foundation for the anniversary. The Secretary-General’s report entitled “An Agenda for Development” is a highlight of this session of the General Assembly. My delegation expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for producing a thought-provoking report which offers a comprehensive approach to development and innovative ideas for consideration. We hope that the upcoming discussion of that report will help in the search for an adequate response to persistent inequalities and imbalances, as well as ways to combat the abject poverty, external debt burden and environmental degradation that negatively affect the developing countries. “An Agenda for Development” is expected to promote people-centred sustainable development through, inter alia, a meaningful North-South partnership. In this connection, it would be advisable that the targets of earmarking 0.7 per cent of the industrialized countries’ gross national product (GNP) for official development assistance and allocating 20 per cent of that assistance for human priority concerns be reflected in that “Agenda”. We also wish to see included in the “Agenda” the idea of allocating 20 per cent of the budget of the developing countries for the aforementioned purpose. An active South-South cooperation is of vital importance for the sustainable development and self- reliance of the developing countries. In this regard the establishment of the South Centre will have a significant bearing on the strengthening of the foundations of such cooperation. The problems facing the countries in transition and the need for international cooperation to overcome them have found, in our view, a proper reflection in the “Agenda”. In order to ensure the success of transition, which has a direct bearing on the future of world developments, it is only fair that greater attention be given to enhancing the effectiveness of international cooperation towards that end. Furthermore, this cooperation should be tailored to the yspecific conditions of countries in transition. In the case of Mongolia, aside from such handicaps as a low level of development and a disadvantageous geographical location, our economy, in fact, finds itself dependent on another crisis-stricken country in transition. We believe that the time has come to make every effort to resolve the external debt problem of developing countries, taking into account the vital interests of their socio-economic development and the urgent need to lay the foundation for equitable economic cooperation. On the other hand, it is incumbent upon the creditor nations to display the political will to deal resolutely with that intractable problem. One might add that the realistic assessment of the underlying political and economic causes of the multiplying debt burden should be borne in mind in addressing this issue. The successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the ensuing decision to create the World Trade Organization represent an important step towards a fairer trading system. We hope that the entry into force of the Convention on the Law of the Sea will facilitate the solution of problems confronting, above all, the least developed, land- locked and geographically disadvantaged States. The post-Rio period has registered a welcome shift towards the broadening of international cooperation in addressing environmental issues. Nevertheless, we have to admit that there is a significant disparity between the importance that the international community attaches to this problem and the actual results of the work done in protecting the environment and halting the ecological crisis and remedying its consequences. In this regard, I wish to emphasize that commitments, especially those related to the flow of financial resources and the transfer of technology, have to be faithfully honoured. As a country exposed to drought and desertification, Mongolia welcomes the conclusion of the negotiations on, and the signing of, the international Convention to combat desertification. The convening of the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen next year is a clear manifestation of the fact that social issues are being brought to the centre of the international agenda. We trust that the Summit will serve as a powerful engine for marshalling political will at the highest level and will bring about a viable action programme to effectively address social challenges. This Summit, taken together with the recent International Conference on Population 5 and Development and the future conferences on women and on human settlements constitute an intertwined continuous process of international consensus building. Mongolia is advancing along the road of reforms, relying on the active support of the donor community and of international organizations. The International Monetary Fund-supported enhanced structural adjustment facility programme is in its second year of implementation. There is a positive trend towards checking economic decline and inflation and stabilizing the national currency. The role of the private sector in the national economy is growing considerably. Relying on the experience of the years of transition, we are on our way to finding effective ways and means for the State-governed economy. A great deal has been accomplished in laying down the legal foundations for societal life. Yet underlying problems continue to persist. At times, we face a situation in which one problem succeeds another. The fuel and energy sector is in a critical state. The living standards of the population continue to decline; poverty and unemployment are on the rise. There is a severe shortage of internal financial resources. In order to make substantive progress in overcoming these and other difficulties, foreign aid will continue to play a decisive role for some time to come. In this respect, we are looking forward to the fourth donor meeting to be held in Tokyo this November. As hardships seem to persist, the practice of holding regular donor meetings under the auspices of Japan and the World Bank remains essential. We trust that we will receive support and understanding from the parties concerned. However, this is not to say that we are pursuing a lopsided approach to overcoming the crisis and implementing structural economic adjustments, relying solely on outside assistance and ideas. It goes without saying that the only way, eventually, is in the development of equitable and mutually advantageous cooperation. Proceeding from this premise, we endeavour to attract foreign investment, including private investment, and to create the necessary legal, economic and other conditions. For any State, and for small States in particular, peace and stability in their respective regions are of vital importance. By and large, positive trends are prevailing in our region, despite the continued existence of hotbeds of conflict and tension. An important factor contributing to these trends is the development of Russian-Chinese relations and cooperation within the framework of friendly partnership. Mongolia welcomes the recent agreement between Russia and China not to target each other with strategic nuclear missiles; we see this as a development that augurs well for stability and confidence-building in the region and beyond. The maintenance of good- neighbourly relations with these two countries is of paramount importance to Mongolia, and today these relations are based on new Treaties on friendly relations and cooperation. As opposed to the headway made in resolving and preventing crisis situations in Asia, there seems to be no discernible shift for the better on the Korean Peninsula. We hope that the new leadership of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the other parties concerned, bearing in mind the international dimensions of the problem, will display great responsibility in addressing the problems at hand. The agreement between the Government of Tajikistan and the opposition group on a temporary cease- fire constitutes a first, important step towards national reconciliation in Tajikistan, and should be built upon. Last year’s truly historic developments in the Middle East paved the way for the positive steps that we are witnessing today in the efforts to bring peace to the region, inching towards a comprehensive settlement of the Middle East conflict. We hope that the United States-Cuba bilateral agreement on the immigration question will prove to have a far-reaching impact on resolving the outstanding issues between these two countries. We commend the peaceful manner in which the goal of restoring democracy in Haiti was achieved. The wars that continue to rage in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Afghanistan and the tragedies in Rwanda and Somalia testify to the highly complex nature of these problems and remind us again that the efforts of the international community to resolve them should by no means decrease in intensity. Bold steps are needed, particularly by the nuclear- weapon States, to solve the mutually interlinked problems of the indefinite extension of the non-proliferation Treaty and the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty in 1995, as well as credible security assurances for the non- nuclear-weapon States. 6 It is gratifying to note that the five nuclear-weapon States supported Mongolia’s declaration of its territory as a nuclear-weapon-free zone and expressed their intention to respect that status. The Non-Aligned Movement has also welcomed that initiative as a commendable contribution to regional stability and confidence-building. In an effort to contribute to the establishment of an effective verification system for the future comprehensive test-ban treaty, Mongolia has expressed its interest in being part of the global seismic monitoring network. We stand ready to cooperate on this question with the interested parties. The unchecked arms trade and its increase to global proportions, and especially its extension into volatile and unstable regions of the world, is fraught with dangerous consequences. We believe that it is high time for the United Nations to take a close and comprehensive look at the issue with a view to formulating the legal parameters of the conduct of States in this respect. In recent years the role and influence of the Non- Aligned Movement in world politics have grown. Considerable progress has been achieved in implementing the Jakarta Final Document, which epitomized the new strategy of the Movement in the post-cold-war era. The Cairo Ministerial Conference, held last June, contributed to the enhancement of the Movement’s activities. Here, I should also like to mention that this Conference emphasized the need to augment the Movement’s efforts with a view to adequately responding to common problems facing the developing countries. I wish to make a few more comments on the United Nations. In the wake of the cold-war policy that limited the capacity of the United Nations to implement fully the purposes and principles of its Charter, new opportunities have opened up before the world Organization. All at once, the eyes of the world, full of hope and expectation, have turned to the United Nations. The United Nations has exerted a great deal of effort, and it can be credited with impressive accomplishments, especially in the areas of peace-keeping and humanitarian assistance. Nevertheless, many Member States have voiced their concern over and criticism of the restructuring of the United Nations and have stressed the need to ensure a proper balance in its activities. We can well understand the justified criticism that our Organization is disproportionately preoccupied with peace- keeping and security issues at the expense of its urgent development agenda. We expect that with deliberations on and the subsequent adoption of the Agenda for Development there will be less grounds for such criticism. The composition of the Security Council and its methods of work do not reflect the realities of the time. My delegation hopes that the ongoing deliberations in the Working Group on this issue will be intensified and successfully concluded by the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We commend and support the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in his efforts to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the Secretariat. We are confident that the Secretary-General will persevere in his reform process, and wish him every success in his future endeavours. The Mongolian people is approaching an auspicious event, which will be observed this coming November — namely, the seventieth anniversary of the proclamation of the Republic, which represents an important juncture in restoring our independence. My people has accomplished since then an arduous journey marked by ups and downs. Today we are continuing our reforms in line with our democratic Constitution of 1992. In keeping with its foreign policy concept, Mongolia will continue to endeavour to make its own contribution to the common cause of developing friendly relations and cooperation between nations and ensuring peace, security and progress. I should like to convey to Mr. Essy of Côte d’Ivoire our sincere congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I am certain that his experience will be a positive factor in ensuring the success of the session’s deliberations. Iraq is one of the founding Members of the United Nations. Over the past five decades it has taken an active part in all the Organization’s activities, has cooperated effectively with its various organs and has contributed generously when it was able to do so. Iraq has also adhered to the decisions of the Organization in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Charter. At the international level, Iraq has participated actively and responsibly in the Movement of Non-aligned Countries, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the League of Arab States. During the 1970s it provided assistance and soft loans amounting to about $10 billion to developing countries in Africa, Asia and Latin and 15 General Assembly 22nd meeting Central America. Iraq has called for justice in political and economic relations and has affirmed the need to respect international law. These positions of Iraq are known to all. What now concerns my country is the nature of the current stage of the relationship between Iraq and the Security Council, which is based on the Council’s resolution 687 (1991), adopted in April of that year. That resolution, which imposed a number of obligations on Iraq, has no precedent among United Nations resolutions throughout the history of the Organization. This is how it is seen today in international circles, both legal and political. However, despite its cruel and extraordinary nature, Iraq informed the Security Council that it was ready to comply with it within the requirements laid down by the Charter’s provisions regarding resolutions adopted under Chapter VII. Since that date, despite the harsh conditions obtaining in our country as a result of the total war waged by the most powerful States of the world — a war in which more than 100,000 tons of explosives were dumped on civilian utilities throughout the country — and despite the effects of the comprehensive and harsh embargo, Iraq has striven to implement the resolution. In March 1992 — less than a year after the adoption of the resolution — and in November of the same year we came to the Security Council to explain the substantial and serious steps that had been taken by Iraq in the process of implementing its provisions. On both occasions, we requested that positive and fair consideration be given to what had been achieved and that steps be taken towards easing the comprehensive blockade imposed upon Iraq in accordance with the terms of the resolution and, specifically, the unbearable suffering of the 20 million people of Iraq. However, our requests were not heeded. In the middle of 1993 Iraq’s relationship with the Special Commission and with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) saw a breakthrough in the field of positive and constructive cooperation with a view to completing the implementation of part C of Security Council resolution 687 (1991) — the provisions relating to proscribed weapons, which the resolution legally ties to the lifting of the embargo on oil exports. In the process of this cooperation — on 26 November 1993 — we presented our official letter concerning compliance with Security Council resolution 715 (l991). The letter dealt with the monitoring of weapons. This was done after we had been assured that Iraq’s official acknowledgment of compliance represented the most expeditious means of securing the application of paragraph 22 of resolution 687 (1991). This clear and categorical assurance is referred to in the report issued as document S/26571 on 12 October 1993. However, what we were told would be done has not been done. During the past 11 months we have witnessed transparent tactics to delay and obstruct. These have taken various forms. Their purpose is to delay indefinitely the lifting of the embargo. In spite of the official acknowledgment by the Special Commission and the IAEA of the relevant Iraqi authorities’ continuing cooperation, as well as the notable achievements of completion of the work required by those bodies over a period of more than a year, we still confront deliberate ambiguity with regard to the Security Council’s discharge its obligations under paragraph 22, which permits the export of Iraqi products and commodities, including oil. The blockade imposed on Iraq represents the most comprehensive regime ever imposed by the Security Council in all its history. With the exception of food and medicine, it includes everything and affects all aspects of life. As a result of the freezing of Iraqi assets in foreign banks, Iraq is denied all the financial resources that would enable it to pay for the food and medicines its people need. This has rendered practically redundant the exceptions relating to food and medicines. In addition, the Sanctions Committee, which the Security Council entrusted with the task of authorizing the importation of material to Iraq, agreed on the consensus method of making decisions. However, the reality is exactly the opposite: decisions are required to be unanimous. It is sufficient for the objection of one member to frustrate any request for imports. It is worth noting that only three of the members of the Committee have been the source of constant objections on the vast majority of the import requests relating to the provision of humanitarian civilian needs. What has made the situation in the Sanctions Committee even worse is that it proceeds on the basis of procedures which do not recognize precedents and deals with each case individually. This has led to confusion, disorder and ambiguity in the work of the Committee in regard to what is permitted, both in relation to quantity and quality. It is not difficult to see, therefore, the harmful negative consequences of this method of work by the Committee on the flow of 16 General Assembly 22nd meeting humanitarian goods, which are of a limited quantity anyway. Let me refer to some glaring examples. The Sanctions Committee refused on numerous occasions to permit the importation of shrouds, pencils, cloth of all kinds including the type used for hospital bed sheets, threads of all kinds, paper for printing school books, leather, car tires including used tires, nails; the list is long and it is well documented in the records of the Committee. This situation makes it incumbent upon the international community to reflect upon the philosophy of the sanctions regime of within the Charter of the United Nations. Is that regime a means to an end or is it an end in itself? Further, what is the nature of that regime? Is it punitive, or is it a series of procedures designed to achieve the purposes of the Charter irrespective of the unilateral goals and whims of foreign policies of Member States? It is well known to all that the sanctions regime under the Charter is nothing but a series of procedures adopted to achieve certain results that lead in turn to the achievement of the purposes and principles of the United Nations, and that such procedures should end with the cessation of their causes. What then is the state of correct application of these procedures following all the cooperation and progress achieved in complying with the resolutions of the Security Council by Iraq? What is clear to us is that the application of sanctions and the embargo in the manner described against Iraq is a process of vengeance, a process aimed at depriving the people of Iraq, a nation of with great history, a nation which has contributed immensely to human civilization, depriving it of the simplest requirements of human life. The reports of the relevant specialized agencies indicate the continuing deterioration of living conditions of the Iraqi citizens. The Iraqi Government makes available to every citizen a limited rations of flour, rice, tea, cooking oil, soap, baby formula and whatever other items might be available. This share is however to meet the basic nutritional needs of human beings. Of late, we have been forced to reduce this ration due to the lack of financial resources and as well as poor agricultural output resulting from the embargo. Consequently, the largest number of citizens cannot buy what they lack of these and other items because of the high prices, especially for protein items, and they are therefore suffering from malnutrition. This situation has affected the physical wellbeing of the individual citizen in Iraq. Despite the efforts of the Government to support and develop the agricultural sector, great difficulties continue to be faced due to the embargo. For example, the lack of pesticides, insecticides, agricultural machinery and equipment, water pumps and fertilizers. We do not have the financial means to offset these shortages; and when we do have some financial resources, the Sanctions Committee promptly obstructs their importation. The Joint Mission of the Food and Agricultural Organization and the World Food Programme, which visited Iraq in June 1993, did indicate in its Special Alert No. 237 (1993) the magnitude of the danger resulting from the blockade on the agricultural capabilities of Iraq, which caused the loss of food-security and generated persistent deprivation, chronic hunger and endemic malnutrition among the vast majority of the population. The third FAO Special Report of May 1994 dealt with the grave problems of providing food and crops in Iraq due to the shortages of agricultural requirements. The same Report noted that these problems cannot be solved by the provision of food aid and that the permanent solution to the present food crisis lies in reviving the Iraqi economy which cannot be achieved without resuming the activity of international trade. It is also indicated that the rationing system used by the Iraqi Government, though very successful, provides only about one-half of the average caloric intake which used to be available to the citizens of Iraq before the imposition of the sanctions. In the public health sector, health services have deteriorated, after they had been amongst the relatively advanced in the world. Due to shortages of medicine and the deterioration of medical equipment, cases of death have reached 384,022 cases from August 1990 to March 1994. The cases of death among infants have also increased and now reach 126 cases per l00,000 live births whereas it had been only 32 per thousand in the period 1985 to 1990. There are those who claim that the Government of Iraq is the party responsible for not making available food, medicine and essential civilian needs to the people because it has refused to accept Security Council resolutions 706 (1991) and 712 (1991). Such allegations are mere falsifications. Fair and objective consideration of the full picture of the arrangements adopted in these two resolutions would lead one to the conclusion that they do represent 17 General Assembly 22nd meeting a political programme aimed at violating the sovereignty of Iraq, interfering in its internal affairs and dividing its people along ethnic and sectarian lines, rather than ensuring the satisfying of humanitarian needs of the people of Iraq. Through five rounds of talks with the Secretariat in Vienna and New York in 1992 and 1993 we have sought to reach acceptable modalities through sound arrangements in order to ensure the satisfaction of the humanitarian civilian needs of our people. However, despite the sustained efforts that have been made, such efforts have failed to reach an appropriate solution, a solution free of the objectives of the biased political programme through the pressures brought to bear by the United States. One of the major ironies during those talks was that the oil and banking experts who were part of the United Nations delegation did acknowledge that the arrangements adopted in the two said resolutions were not at all customary in the oil and banking fields. Could it be deemed reasonable by anyone involved in the oil industry that the signing of an oil-export contract should require no less than 30 procedural steps? Do Members realize that the banking arrangements stipulated by the two resolutions totally ignore the existence of a developed banking sector in Iraq? Do Members realize that a simple contract for the importation of food or medicine requires no fewer than 20 bureaucratic steps in order for those goods to reach Iraq, and that even after their arrival they are subject to monitoring by hundreds of United Nations monitors from the time they leave the Iraqi border until they reach the consumer? This is the true story of resolutions 706 (1991) and 712 (1991). Those two resolutions were never intended to meet the humanitarian needs of the people of Iraq. In the course of the Security Council’s periodic reviews, which take place every 60 days and the latest of which took place on 14 September last, the United States falsely accused Iraq on various counts in order to justify its position of delaying the lifting of sanctions indefinitely. We find it useful to refer to some examples of these accusations so that the General Assembly may see the picture clearly. The United States charges that Iraq’s cooperation with the Security Council has been sporadic, selective and opportunistic. This is a baseless accusation. It is well known that Iraq agreed to comply with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and sought persistently to implement their provisions correctly and legally. We believe that the majority of the members of the Security Council do not join the United States in its accusation. The United States also charges that Iraq’s record with respect to the implementation of its obligations in the area of proscribed weapons was a partial and grudging acquiescence to United Nations demands. The facts, however, prove otherwise. This is made clear in the reports of the Special Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency, especially those issued since July 1993. The latest of those reports, circulated in document S/1994/860, states, “The Special Commission and the IAEA noted with appreciation the constructive cooperation received from Iraq and the efforts made by the competent Iraqi authorities in the conduct of their tasks.” (S/1994/860, para. 6) Another accusation is that the Government of Iraq cut off electricity from certain areas in the northern Iraqi Governorates. Those who make this accusation ignore the fact that the comprehensive embargo imposed upon Iraq does not make sufficient financial resources available to the Government to import spare parts and equipment for ensuring the maintenance of electrical service in the country. Moreover, the accusers are the very ones who constantly object in the sanctions Committee to Iraqi requests for importing material with which to maintain the electricity grid, in the event we have some resources available to that end. The United States also accuses the Government of Iraq of draining the marshes in the southern part of the country in pursuit of a political programme aimed against the population of the area. According to the allegation, this action destroys their cultural heritage and causes harm to the environment. I say that this accusation, like the others, is baseless. It is utterly at odds with the sense of objectivity expected of a permanent member of the Security Council. The truth is that the Government of Iraq carried out extensive irrigation projects in the southern part of the country, including the area of the marshes, in order to reduce salinity in the water and soil, which is a problem in central and southern Iraq, thereby increasing the amount of arable land. The planning for these projects goes back to the days of the Rehabilitation Board in the fifties. American, British, French, German, Dutch, Russian and Canadian companies and consultants participated in drawing up and revising the plans and, in part, in their implementation. 18 General Assembly 22nd meeting After the imposition of the comprehensive blockade the competent Iraqi authorities completed the projects by themselves. One of the ironies of the situation is that the principal proponent of draining the marshes of southern Iraq in the fifties was an American expert working for the Iraqi Board. It is also ironic that one of the rivers in the area is still called the Dutch River because a Dutch company carried out a project there. I have been prompted to mention some of the accusations levelled at Iraq in order to shed light on the real situation and the fabrications and falsifications used as pretexts to prolong the iniquitous blockade against us. But it is even more important to refer to some glaring examples of the conduct of those who accuse us, to wit, the United States of America. The United States, the State that is so concerned with respect for Security Council resolutions, imposes two no-fly zones in the north and the south of Iraq without any authorization from the Security Council or any legitimate justification under international law. The United States Administration, which pretends to be so concerned over the rights of the Kurds in Iraq, was the very party that prevented the leaders of the Kurds from honouring an agreement that, after four months of dialogue, was freely entered into with the Government of Iraq in 1991. The United States Administration stated openly that that agreement would have strengthened the authority of the present national Government in Iraq, which was contrary to the United States objective of changing that Government. Is this attitude in harmony with the Security Council resolutions that provide for respect of sovereignty and the achievement of international peace and security and stability in the region? Is it acceptable, under the resolutions of the Security Council, for that Administration to obstruct the operation of flights transporting pilgrims from a friendly Muslim State to Iraq’s sacred religious shrines under the pretext that a number of politicians from that State were among the pilgrims? That very Administration also obstructed, under flimsy pretexts, the aerial shipment of meat from the Sudan to Iraq. Lastly in this connection, I should like to affirm that Iraq expressed, in the words of its leader, President Saddam Hussein, its sincere desire to turn a new leaf with its neighbouring Arab countries in order to establish relations based on the Charter of the League of Arab States, the Charter of the United Nations and on the basis of mutual respect for one another’s sovereignty and regard for each other’s interests. However, it is well known to all that the United States Administration is the party that obstructs those efforts and brings pressure to bear on the States of the region to prevent dialogue with Iraq. The article by United States Secretary of State Warren Christopher published in The New York Times last April is, we believe, the most telling evidence in that respect. Despite the harshness of the Security Council’s resolutions concerning Iraq, we have implemented many of their provisions fully. We are legally and correctly continuing with the implementation of whatever provisions remain in the relevant resolutions. Within this process, we are also prepared to satisfy and allay the concerns of the members of the Security Council of which we have become aware in our contacts, although some of them have been introduced in legally irrelevant contexts. In the meantime, however, we wonder: is it the duty of the State in question under the Charter to implement the provisions of the Security Council resolutions adopted under Chapter VII, without expecting any counter- obligations from the Council to implement the same provisions? The just, legal view is that resolutions of the Council adopted under Chapter VII of the Charter are binding upon the State in question and all other States, particularly the members of the Security Council, and even more particularly the Permanent Members of the Security Council. This, undoubtedly, is the rule of the Charter. It is therefore a foregone conclusion that the members of the Security Council, and especially its Permanent Members, should be keener than any other to abide by the resolutions they themselves adopt. However, the facts of the situation now are that one Permanent Member, namely the United States of America, is persistently obstructing any steps towards the correct legal application of the resolutions of the Council, particularly those provisions relating to the lifting of sanctions from Iraq, and is conducting itself on the basis of biased political motives that bear no relation to either the resolutions of the Council or the Charter. The General Assembly is the general organ entrusted with deliberating on the world Organization as a whole under the Charter. Under the Charter, Member States have conferred on the Security Council the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, and have agreed that in carrying out its duties under this responsibility, the Security Council acts on their behalf, in accordance with the Purposes and Principles of the United Nations Charter. Consequently, under the Charter, the members of the Security Council, 19 General Assembly 22nd meeting both individually and collectively, bear the joint responsibility of the membership of the Organization. The collectivity of membership, as represented by the General Assembly, does not, on the basis of the delegation of power, lose the right to seek, through all available means, the correction of any failure that might arise in performing that responsibility. Proceeding from this, we request that the members of the Security Council, the General Assembly and the international community as a whole look into the iniquitous and illegitimate situation in which one or two Permanent Members obstruct the correct legal application of the resolutions of the Security Council and consequently continue to impose upon the Iraqi people, a nation of ancient history, cruel suffering afflicting all aspects of human life. It is within Iraq’s right to demand strongly that this iniquitous and illegitimate situation be changed as soon as possible and to seek full clarification of the position of the Security Council on its just demands. First, allow me, on behalf of the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, to congratulate you warmly, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I am confident that, under your guidance and with the active contributions of member countries, this session of the General Assembly will have a successful outcome. I also wish to take this opportunity to express our admiration for the efficient performance of your predecessor, Mr. Samuel R. Insanally. We greatly appreciate the great efforts made by Mr. Boutros-Ghali in his high post as Secretary-General of the United Nations in the cause of peace, national independence and development. 5 The United Nations is approaching the final year of its first half century of existence. The most appropriate way for us to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization is to help it act in a manner commensurate with its global role and with the important, difficult and complex tasks set out by the new world situation. Since the last session of the General Assembly, we have witnessed immense and profound changes in the world as a whole and in each region. Mankind is confronted by both opportunities and challenges. It is the task of each country and of the international community as a whole to realize the noble aspirations of mankind, to overcome the obstacles to settling global and pressing issues and to promote peace, cooperation and development. The world panorama is full of contradictions. While the threat of a destructive world war has been further checked, ethnic, religious and territorial conflicts continue to persist or even multiply in a number of regions. Against this disturbing backdrop, there have been some rays of hope that certain conflicts in the world will be settled. The success of the struggle waged by the South African people to abolish apartheid and establish a new united, democratic and non-racist State in South Africa constitutes a historic achievement for the South African people, the United Nations and the world community. The Vietnamese delegation warmly welcomes the delegation of the new South Africa to the General Assembly. In the Middle East, encouraging progress has been made, particularly between Palestine and Israel and between Jordan and Israel, in the negotiating process and the search for peace. These developments foster hopes of reaching a just and lasting peace in the region and of restoring the Palestinian people’s rights to self-determination and an independent State in their own land. Over the past year there have been certain positive developments in the world economy. In a number of countries there have been signs of recovery. Globalism and regionalism have accelerated. Economic competition is acute and, in this context, the developing countries continue to bear innumerable disadvantages. A considerable number of these developing countries, however, are beset by poverty and backwardness; with every passing day millions of people are threatened by starvation. The developing countries hope that, with the conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the decision to establish the World Trade Organization, trade and investment will be expanded, thus strongly enhancing international economic cooperation on the basis of equality and mutual benefit. They cannot, however, help being worried about attempts to use social and environmental issues as fuel for protectionism. This will affect the common sentiments amongst the world’s nations at a time when joint efforts are needed to solve global issues in the interests of the development and advancement of every nation and of the entire international community. In an increasingly interdependent world in which globalism is being strengthened, there is continuous pressure to facilitate increased cooperation on the basis of equal and mutual benefit and to narrow the gap between the level of development of the North and that of the South with a view to securing sustainable and lasting peace throughout the world. We therefore welcome the Secretary-General’s initiative in producing his 'Agenda for Development'. We believe that through wide consultations between Member States we shall arrive at an agenda that responds to common demands and will ensure that the United Nations plays an active role in facilitating economic and social development and the eradication of poverty in Member countries, thereby strengthening the Organization’s important role in international economic relations. We share the view - expressed by many delegations - that the maintenance of international peace and security and the promotion of development are the two paramount tasks of the United Nations. It is our hope that the role of the United Nations in the field of development will be strengthened in response to the expectation of the countries of the world. There is an increasingly irresistible trend towards dialogue and international and regional cooperation. In our view, international cooperation should be based on observance of the principles of respect for independence and national sovereignty, non-interference in the internal affairs of other States, mutually beneficial cooperation on the basis of equality, the settling of disputes through negotiation and without recourse to force or the threat of force. In today’s world of increasing awareness of national independence, respect for the right of nations freely to determine their own course of development and to maintain their national identity is an essential condition for the maintenance of peace and stability and for the strengthening of international cooperation. Blockades, embargoes, sanctions and the imposition of conditions in international relations are relics of the 6 past. They run counter to the aspirations of peoples and to the common trend and are contrary to international law. In this connection, we wish to express our deep sympathy with the Cuban people in respect of their current difficulties. We demand an end to the economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed on Cuba. We demand also prompt and effective implementation of the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly. We welcome the joint communiqué recently signed by the United States of America and Cuba on the question of Cuban emigrés. We hope that the two countries will continue their dialogue with a view to settling other outstanding differences between them. At a time of opportunities and challenges, of hope and fear, the United Nations bears, more than ever, a heavy responsibility in regard to the maintenance of international peace and security. Never before has the United Nations been directly engaged in dealing with so many hotbeds of tension throughout the world. Despite the Organization’s efforts, satisfactory solutions to the conflicts in Bosnia, Somalia and Rwanda have yet to be found. The tendency to resort more and more to measures of enforcement and intervention to try to resolve intra-State conflicts has prompted legitimate concern among many countries. We share the view that United Nations peace-keeping operations should strictly observe the principles of respect for national sovereignty and territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of other States. We believe that the best way to secure the peaceful settlement of conflicts is to persevere with dialogue. Lessons should be learnt from the successes and the failures of peace-keeping operations in recent times. This would help the United Nations the better to discharge the tasks that the Member States as a whole have entrusted to it. The complex world situation and the increasingly important role of the United Nations urgently require restructuring of the Organization. In view of the growing democratization of international relations, we join those delegations that are demanding reform to democratize the United Nations system. This would include an increase in the membership of the Security Council to make it more representative, more in keeping with the changes that have taken place in the world and more transparent in its decision-making processes. Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly as the body most representative of the interests of Member States is also necessary. Through the convening of international conferences, such as the recent International Conference on Population and Development, the coming World Conference on Women and the World Summit for Social Development, the United Nations has clearly demonstrated its commitment to the promotion of international cooperation in the resolution of global social issues of vital interest to all nations. I should like to mention in this important forum a particularly significant coincidence of history. As the United Nations prepares to celebrate its fiftieth anniversary, the Vietnamese people are looking forward enthusiastically to commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of President Ho Chi Minh’s solemn declaration to the entire world of the birth of an independent, free and democratic Viet Nam. Only now, half a century after its birth, is Viet Nam able to really concentrate its efforts on socio-economic development. Located in the most dynamic development zone in the world, Viet Nam is fully aware of the danger constituted by the widening gap between its level of development and that of other countries of the region. It has therefore set itself the urgent task of rapidly overcoming its state of poverty and underdevelopment in order to join the stream of progress and development in the region and in the world. Viet Nam has embarked upon the path of reform and renewal in every sphere of its society’s life. The core of this reform and renewal is the development of a multi-sector economy operating through a market mechanism and employing State regulation at the macro-economic level with a view to maintaining the country’s socio-economic stability, along with the step-by-step establishment of a state of law of the people, by the people and for the people. The reform and renewal process has achieved important initial results. The average annual growth rate of our gross national product for the three years from 1991 to 1993 was 7.3 per cent; for the first six months of this year, the rate rose to 8 per cent. Our international economic cooperation and trade relations and foreign investment in our country have grown rapidly. Our people’s living conditions have been improved. Further progress has been made in the cultural, social, educational and health-care areas, especially regarding the care of children. Along with economic reforms, Viet Nam has gradually carried out the reform and renewal of its political system in order to build a society in which the 7 rights of each and every one will be increasingly ensured. We continue to move forward in our efforts to establish a state of law, perfect the legal system and undertake national administrative reform. After the promulgation of the new Constitution in 1992, our National Assembly adopted a number of important laws, including the civil law, the labour law, the land law, and the law on the promotion of domestic investment. With these achievements, Viet Nam is now shifting towards a new stage in its development - that of the industrialization and modernization of the country. This long and arduous process has as its final objective a prosperous people, a strong nation and an equitable and civilized society. To create a favourable international environment for national construction and development, Viet Nam has been pursuing a foreign policy of openness, diversification, and multilateralization of its relations, while carrying out our desire to become the friend of all countries in the interest of peace, independence and development. We are pleased to note that our policy is developing in complete harmony with the general trend throughout the world, and especially in South-East Asia - that is, the trend towards pursuing peace and cooperation in the interest of development, after decades of war and confrontation. In its implementation of this foreign policy, Viet Nam gives first priority to enhancing the relations of friendship and cooperation with neighbouring countries in the region, and to creating peace, stability, cooperation and development in South-East Asia. Our bilateral relations with each of the members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and with the Association itself, are experiencing rapid and satisfactory growth, primarily in the economic and commercial areas, particularly since Viet Nam became an ASEAN observer in 1992. At the ministerial Conference of ASEAN held in Bangkok last July, the ASEAN Foreign Ministers unanimously supported Viet Nam’s full membership in this Association. With the increased support of the ASEAN countries, Viet Nam is actively preparing to take all the necessary steps to join this Association as a full member. Viet Nam’s accession to ASEAN is in conformity with the general trend towards responding to the interests of the countries of the region and reinforcing regional cooperation, especially in the economic and commercial areas, and at the same time facilitates the expansion of our relations with other countries and international organizations. In keeping with the new regional context, all 10 countries of South-East Asia recently participated, for the first time, in the Conference of foreign ministers of ASEAN; an ASEAN Regional Forum, at which regional security was discussed, was also held for the first time on 25 July last in Bangkok. All this demonstrates the growing cooperation in South-East Asia, as well as the robust movement towards the attainment of the common goals of the region: peace, stability and security. In order to ensure the peace, stability and development of each country and of the region as a whole, Viet Nam is of the view that the countries of the region should consolidate existing points of agreement, narrow differences and settle disputes, including those regarding the Eastern Sea, through bilateral and multilateral negotiations among those parties directly concerned, without resorting to the use or threat of force. While waiting and working for a fundamental and durable solution, all the parties concerned should restrain from any act that might further complicate the situation, and at the same time strictly respect each country’s right of sovereignty on the continental shelf and in the exclusive economic zones, in keeping with international law and particularly with the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. With regard to the Kingdom of Cambodia, Viet Nam ardently wishes to see its neighbour become an independent, peaceful, neutral, non-aligned country, maintaining friendly relations with all countries. It is Viet Nam’s policy to strengthen good-neighbourly relations with the Kingdom of Cambodia and to respect the Cambodian people’s right to self-determination. We consider that all signatories to the Paris Agreement on Cambodia are bound to scrupulously observe that Agreement, to refrain from interfering in that country’s internal affairs and to actively contribute to the process of national reconciliation and the restoration of peace and stability in Cambodia. In the interest of maintaining and strengthening the traditional friendly relations between Viet Nam and Cambodia and of protecting the legitimate rights of the Vietnamese residents who have been, for many generations, living in Cambodia, we wish to draw attention to the Immigration Law promulgated by the National Assembly of Cambodia on 26 August 1994. Certain articles of that Law have given rise to some concern. His Royal Highness King Norodom Sihanouk and the Royal Government of Cambodia share the legitimate concern of the Government of Viet Nam and have undertaken to avoid any regrettable consequences and agreed to begin negotiations with Vietnam soon to settle this problem. 8 The lifting by the United States of the embargo imposed upon Viet Nam has opened up new prospects for building and broadening multi-faceted cooperation between our two countries in the interests of the two peoples and in the service of peace, stability, cooperation and development in the region and throughout the world. We firmly believe that multilateral relations, especially within the framework of the United Nations, are playing an increasingly important role in international life. As we move towards the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of our Organization, we shall be reviewing all the activities of the past 50 years, drawing the necessary lessons to enhance the capacity and effectiveness of the United Nations system and to pursue tasks worthy of the confidence and expectations of the peoples of the world. For its modest part, Viet Nam will unceasingly strive to make positive contributions to the common cause of the United Nations for peace, development and social progress throughout the world. Allow me to congratulate the President on his election to his high office, and to thank the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, for his wise leadership during the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Many had hoped that the fall of the Berlin Wall would put an end to the divisions of the world and usher in a new era of peace and harmony among nations. This has not happened. Today humanity faces a new division or fragmentation far more dramatic in essence. The world is torn between hope and despair. This is the new division we are facing. On the one hand, hope: the spirit of democracy is kept alive. The global commitment to the universal principles of respect for human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms has been maintained. On the other hand, despair: the eruption of long-suppressed evil forces, such as ethnic and xenophobic nationalism, racism and tribalism, has caused new conflicts. They have emerged as new threats to international peace and security. On the darkest side, there are new instances of genocide. Slogans of racial hatred have resurfaced. Hundreds of thousands of people have been killed or wounded; hundreds of thousands of people have become refugees or displaced persons. Human dignity has been violated. On the brightest side, historic breakthroughs have been achieved in South Africa and the Middle East. The courageous stand of some eminent statesmen has been instrumental in translating the basic vision of the United Nations into reality. In this respect, our praise goes to the leaders of Palestine, Israel and South Africa for their courage and far-sightedness. Their bold steps towards peace fostered our optimism to counter the negative trends. In order to be able to plan a better future, we must take account of the achievements and the failures of the past and meet the challenges of the present. The time has come to start to contemplate realistically how to create new and workable mechanisms to respond effectively to the challenges of our times. But we first have to accept the fact that euphoria is almost always short-lived. Today we observe two contradictory trends, one towards fragmentation and conflict and the other towards globalization and cooperation. This new dialectic defines the framework within which we have to work together to find a balance between optimism and pessimism, between the integrity of the nation-State and the demands of an ever more interdependent world. This Organization was built on the ashes of the Second World War. The war’s aftermath left its imprint not only on the United Nations Charter, but also on the rules that govern its work and its structure. Hence, the crucial challenge before us today is to make the United Nations the real centre of universal solidarity, by improving its effectiveness and harmonizing its work with these new imperatives. It is in line with this reasoning that we attach the utmost importance to the process of reform and restructuring of the United Nations. In this exercise, the pivotal point should be the Security Council. The widespread demands to make that principal body more representative, more responsive, more transparent and more accountable have imposed upon us a historic task which we must fulfil. The democratization of the Security Council is a challenge of our times, one that requires an adequate response. The moral authority of this body needs to be reinforced. We have to enhance the representative weight of the Security Council by enlarging it and by establishing a fairer and more orderly system of rotation within the geographical groups. We must make sure that the Security Council is not perceived as a tool of a small group of big States that seek to impose their will and their national policy objectives on others. Indeed, the moral and legal authority of the Security Council’s decisions emanates from the fact that the Council, in accordance with Article 24 of the Charter, acts on behalf of all States Members of 23 the United Nations. Consequently, it is essential that the working methods of the Security Council be reviewed to reflect the spirit of democratization. With this understanding, my country, Turkey, has been actively participating in the deliberations of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council. We expect this Working Group to become a genuine driving force for real reform of the Security Council. Therefore, any 'quick-fix' solution in which the reform may be interpreted in a rather narrow sense cannot be accepted. In the same vein, we also fully support the efforts under way to revitalize and rationalize the work of the General Assembly as the central and universal deliberative forum. The ongoing conflicts and tragedies all over the world underscore the urgency of our task of strengthening the United Nations, particularly in the field of collective security. In the past five years, United Nations peace-keeping operations have undergone considerable expansion. The nature of peace-keeping is changing. Preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-enforcement, peace-building and global human security have emerged as new concepts on which further reflection is needed. As an active participant in the peace-keeping operations of the United Nations, Turkey believes that their success depends ultimately on the support and assistance received from the community of nations. This, in turn, requires the awareness of a sense of shared responsibility in addressing our common concerns. The United Nations stand-by forces, in which we have decided to participate, would play an essential role in promoting such awareness. Only when a potential aggressor clearly perceives that the international community will retaliate in a timely and effective manner might it change its behaviour. The challenges we are facing today go beyond the means and resources of a single organization. Accordingly, there is a need for a new collective security architecture of mutually-reinforcing institutions in which all elements would have a role to play. The interaction between global security and regional security requires effective cooperation and coordination among the United Nations and regional organizations. One thing is clear: only the United Nations can provide legitimacy to regional arrangements and institutions in the fields of peace-keeping and peacemaking. From Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Caucasus to Rwanda, the peoples of the world, faced with threats of racist hatred, are desperately demanding the helping hand and protection of the United Nations. Regrettably, the tragedy of Bosnia and Herzegovina has continued to be at the top of the international agenda during the past 12 months. Despite numerous Security Council and General Assembly resolutions, the international community has been able neither to put an end to the ethnic cleansing, nor to roll back the brutal aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the contrary, the lack of effective enforcement measures has encouraged the aggressors to proceed further with their genocidal campaign and their blatant defiance of international law. Decisive and firm action to stop the aggression is long overdue. The Washington and Vienna Agreements laid down the foundation for a just and viable peace in Bosnia. These Agreements define the framework of a federation which preserves the territorial integrity and unity of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a multicultural, multireligious and multi-ethnic State. They are also open to the participation of Bosnian Serbs. The Bosnian Government accepted the latest international peace plan proposed by the five-nation Contact Group in the spirit of peace. However, the extremist Serbs, longing for an ethnically homogeneous Greater Serbia, have insisted on their defiance of the will of the international community and have rejected the peace plan. Their rejection has demonstrated, yet again, that aggression cannot be halted on the shifting sands of promises and declarations. The five-nation Contact Group has committed itself, in case of rejection, to the tightening of sanctions on Serbia and Montenegro. We deeply regret that the Security Council, by adopting resolution 943 (1994) on 23 September 1994, moved in the opposite direction despite the efforts of the Contact Group of the Organization of the Islamic Conference. Once again, aggression has been rewarded. Genocide remains unchecked. The Bosnian people are yet again completely disappointed with the international system. Their disappointment is shared more and more by the rest of the world, especially in the Islamic countries. We have arrived at a critical juncture. The international community should stand by its commitments and should begin to act resolutely. We have to admit 24 that only diplomacy backed by sufficient force can make the extremist Serbs realize that war gives them more pain than gain. There should be no further easing of the sanctions until Serbia and Montenegro recognize all the successor States within their international borders. As winter approaches, the need to provide security, shelter and humanitarian assistance to the civilian population becomes ever more pressing. The safe areas should be extended and effectively protected by the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR). The strangulation of Sarajevo should be ended. The humanitarian corridors should remain open. As a matter of principle, the Bosnian Government must be provided with all the means necessary for self-defence, so that it may exercise its inherent right under Article 51 of the Charter. This is a moral, legal and political obligation on the part of the international community - but primarily a moral one. President Izetbegovic´, in his address at the 7th plenary meeting, on 27 September 1994, from this rostrum, announced a new formula in this respect. On the condition that certain conditions be fulfilled, he limited his just demand for the lifting of the arms embargo to the adoption of a formal decision, deferring the implementation of the decision for six months. This is a new sacrifice motivated by the international community’s inability to provide security for the victims or to recognize their basic right to self-defence. We must praise this noble gesture and support the new formula. Realization of the commitments to a just and viable peace in Bosnia - commitments that have so far remained unfulfilled - is vital for the restoration of the credibility and moral authority of the United Nations. If we fail the test of history in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the so-called 'new world order' could turn into a permanent 'new world disorder'. We are witnessing further potential threats to the peace and stability of the Balkans. With the increasing tension between Greece and Albania there is, regrettably, a risk that yet another crisis may be created in the region. In addition, the Republic of Macedonia is suffering from an illegal economic blockade imposed by Greece. Moreover, Macedonia is still waiting to be represented at the United Nations under the name and the flag it has chosen. The Balkans can in no way stand the pressure of additional tensions. Compliance with the basic international norms - respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, non-intervention in internal affairs, and the need to resolve disputes by peaceful means rather than by threat or coercion - is today more than ever before a pressing need in the Balkans. My country lies at the very epicentre of the vast geography and the new geopolitics of Eurasia. Most of the conflicts which are high on the international agenda are taking place around Turkey. Fully aware of our responsibilities for the peace and stability of our region and beyond, we are trying to contain conflicts. We seek to reverse destabilizing currents. We strive to promote the rule of law and democracy on our periphery. We remain a factor for stability. We believe that regional economic cooperation is a driving force for shared prosperity and increased confidence among nations as well as the most effective way to prevent the spread of ethnic conflicts and potential hegemonic tendencies. With this awareness, we have developed new creative and cooperative regional initiatives to enhance solidarity and to consolidate the new geopolitical pluralism. We have established the Black Sea Economic Cooperation with Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation and Ukraine. The Economic Cooperation Organization, originally founded by Turkey, Iran and Pakistan, has been enlarged to include Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Another blatant example of defiance of international law has been unfolding in the Caucasus, where Armenian forces continue to occupy one-fifth of Azerbaijani territory. More than a million Azerbaijanis have been displaced. Constant calls by the international community for the immediate, unconditional and total withdrawal of occupying forces, as stipulated in relevant Security Council resolutions, have fallen on deaf ears. This unlawful situation, created by Armenians, constitutes a serious threat not only to the stability of the region neighbouring Turkey, but also to international peace and security. As a member of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) Minsk Group since its inception, Turkey remains committed to the CSCE peace process. We firmly believe that a solution should be found through collective efforts under the authority of the CSCE. In this respect, we fully support the endeavours 25 of the Chairman of the Minsk Group to organize a multinational force to assist the parties to reach a just and lasting solution. We stand ready to contribute to these endeavours. In this context, I should like to reiterate our consistent and firm position, which we have expressed from this rostrum on many occasions: Neither in the Balkans nor in the Caucasus, nor, for that matter, anywhere else, will Turkey ever accept the acquisition of territory by force. Nor will Turkey ever allow misinformation and unashamed official propaganda - even from this rostrum - to continue to lead the international community to tolerate and perpetuate the living conditions imposed upon the Turkish people of Cyprus. Turkish Cypriots remain totally isolated in their part of the island because of innumerable restrictions that Governments and international organizations have placed on their trade, travel, cultural and sporting contacts with the rest of the world. This arbitrary embargo is maintained as a result of a relentless campaign to distort the facts relating to the history of events on the island over the last 31 years. Even a United Nations-sponsored confidence-building package, which was aimed at partially alleviating the ill effects of this embargo, was deliberately torpedoed by the short-sighted policies of the other side, and, unfortunately, prospects for a just and durable settlement have been further eroded. A realistic and viable negotiated settlement continues to be the objective of the Turkish Cypriot side. We support this, and we believe that the only way towards a comprehensive solution of the question of Cyprus lies in removing the obstacles to the confidence-building measures. As a neighbouring country, Turkey follows very closely developments in Georgia. We look forward to the restoration of peaceful conditions in that friendly country and stand prepared to participate in the concerted international action within the framework of the United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia. Turkey has set out on a lasting path of solidarity with the newly independent Central Asian republics, with which it has historic, cultural and linguistic ties. Turkey fully supports the efforts of those secular republics to build pluralistic societies and will assist them in integrating into the world community. I should like to underscore that Turkey’s relationship between sovereign countries is one of cooperation and solidarity; it is a relationship between sovereign countries. It is neither in competition with, nor exclusive of, other countries’ relations with them. We attach great importance to the unity and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. We had hoped that a broad-based national reconciliation process including all groups could have started. However, we have been greatly dismayed by the resumption of armed conflict. We once again call upon all the Afghan parties to put an end to the fratricidal fighting and start working for the establishment of internal peace so that the rehabilitation and reconstruction of this devastated country can begin. In the Middle East, the end of the cold war has fundamentally altered the bleak picture and opened new horizons for peace. The Israeli-Palestinian agreement and the ensuing Israeli-Jordanian agreements have opened up a new era in which enmity is giving way to reconciliation and despair to hope. The historic breakthrough in the peace process, which promises concord and cooperation between the Palestinians and Israel, and between Israel and its Arab neighbours, will undoubtedly have positive ramifications on a much wider regional and global scale. The establishment of permanent peace in the Middle East will also create the necessary conditions for harmony, economic cooperation and shared prosperity. As a country neighbouring the Middle East, Turkey has a record of constructive involvement in the region’s affairs and good traditional ties with all the parties. It is actively participating in all tracks of multilateral negotiations. It remains ready to contribute to the economic restructuring efforts of the Palestinians in Gaza and Jericho. It will take part in the temporary international presence upon the request of the parties. I should like to reaffirm our strong support for the process towards a just and lasting peace in the region. The rather optimistic prospects for the future of the Middle East need to be tempered, however, with a degree of realism, in the face of the hardship the Iraqi people have been suffering. Four years after the outbreak of the Gulf crisis they are still waiting to return to normality. We are fully aware of the fact that, in order to take its rightful place in the international community, Iraq has to comply with all the relevant Security Council resolutions. However, we cannot and should not turn a blind eye to the fact that Iraq has almost completed its compliance with the disarmament requirements under Security 26 Council resolution 687 (1991) and deserves encouragement in this respect. It should also be borne in mind that the sanctions have caused great economic problems not only for the Iraqi people but also for a number of countries, especially Iraq’s neighbours. The great economic losses of the most adversely affected countries, particularly mine - Turkey - still have to be addressed. Here, I must also underline once again our principled stand that we will remain committed to the territorial integrity and unity of Iraq, which are vital for peace and stability in the Middle East. The elimination of apartheid in South Africa closed a long and dark chapter in the history of humanity. Apart from South Africa, the picture is still gloomy in many parts of Africa. The United Nations conducts half of its peace-keeping operations in that continent and is actively involved in maintaining and building peace in Somalia, Mozambique, Angola, Liberia, Rwanda and Burundi. The efforts of the United Nations in Africa should be based on a twofold and consolidated strategy. They should be directed not only to maintaining peace, but also to accelerating sustained economic development, through which the major causes of continued armed conflicts may be defused. Indeed, the root causes of conflict require new global commitments. In full agreement with the Secretary-General, my Government subscribes to the view that it is time to balance the old commitment to territorial security with a new commitment to human security; to shift from providing security through arms to ensuring security through development. The end of the cold war has also ended the compartmentalization of major components, such as political security and social issues. It is now mostly recognized that security cannot be viewed in political and military terms alone, and that peace and prosperity are indivisible. At a time when disorder and disintegration, both at national and international levels, seem fated to increase, the concept of crisis prevention needs to be elaborated and expanded. We strongly endorse the view that peace, development and democracy are interrelated and mutually reinforcing. We all recognize the pressing need to promote a new culture of development. The United Nations new agenda for development must bring sustainable and people-centred development to the forefront. For this, a stronger role for the United Nations is needed. Democracy is the underlying imperative for human security, social integration and good governance. Indeed, during the Vienna Conference last year, the international community reiterated its commitment to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and to the common struggle against racism, xenophobia and intolerance. Today a pluralistic civil society, free and fair elections, and the rule of law are defined as the common goals of humanity. Dialogue between different cultures can only be achieved within the context of democracy. Violence and terrorism could not, and should not, be justified under any circumstances. In this spirit, the General Assembly in its resolution 48/122 reaffirmed the Vienna Declaration and described terrorism as an activity which aims at the destruction of human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy, as well as threatening the territorial integrity and security of States, destabilizing legitimately constituted Governments, undermining pluralistic civil society and having adverse consequences on the economic and social development of States. We call upon the international community to stand by its commitments and to take the necessary steps to combat and eradicate terrorism. Lack of tolerance is the underlying cause of various conflicts which constitute the most important threat to international peace and security. Therefore, promotion of a culture of tolerance has a direct bearing on crisis prevention. We should inject the spirit of tolerance into the young generations. It is a pleasure for me to recall here that on Turkey’s initiative, the General Assembly last December proclaimed 1995 as the United Nations Year for Tolerance. By the terms of resolution 48/126, the entire United Nations system has been asked to contribute to its successful observance. Its celebration will contribute to the acceleration of efforts to prevent all forms of racism, discrimination, fanaticism and fundamentalism. Disarmament should also be seen within the context of preventive diplomacy. We must recognize the fact that the end of the cold war has not removed the danger of nuclear weapons. On the contrary, in some cases the danger has actually increased. Hence, another field where 27 progress is needed is the prevention of nuclear proliferation. As we prepare for the Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which will be convened next year, the creation of a climate of confidence will be vital. Measures need to be taken now to create that climate. In the same vein, we hold the view that full compliance with existing arms control and disarmament instruments at regional and global levels is of primary importance. As the Secretary-General has rightly stated, the children’s Summit in 1990, the Earth Summit in 1992, the human rights Conference in 1993, the population Conference in September 1994, the social development Summit in March 1995 and the women’s Conference to be held in September 1995 are all linked. By 1995, in time for the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we should reach a global consensus on the way forward to new commitments towards building a better world. To complete the agenda, we must also add to these major events the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), which will be held in June 1996 in Istanbul. In this context, we welcome the Secretary-General’s call to declare the Habitat II Conference as the 'City Summit' to increase world awareness on this subject and to commit the world’s leaders to making our cities, towns and villages healthy, safe, just and sustainable. High-level participation in this Conference will ensure its success. We will commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization next year. It is the most opportune time, on the threshold of a new millennium, to take stock of what we have achieved, and where we have failed, with a sense of realism and vision. We are obliged to realize the dreams of the founders of the United Nations. We hope that our deliberations will help to generate a new impetus for positive action to this end. Member States have set their hopes on the United Nations, which reflects diversity united in a common cause. To the extent that it succeeds, we will have a better world for all peoples, and peace, security, democracy, development and prosperity will be enhanced. This requires cooperative action, which all nations should be engaged in. We have to give full scope to our imagination to keep pace with the winds of change and strive for the realization of the shared dreams of humankind. If we fail, future generations will pay dearly for our mistakes. I am convinced that after all the bitter experiences of the past, humanity has the cumulative wisdom not to make such mistakes. Allow me, at the outset, to commend Mr. Samuel Insanally for the able manner in which he conducted the work of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I would also like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of this, the forty-ninth session. I wish you success in pursuing this very important task. I thank you for giving me this opportunity to speak on behalf of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina at this distinguished gathering. I come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, a far-away country that has currently been the subject of many discussions. Unfortunately, I have to begin my statement by repeating facts that, for most of you, may be or should be well known. At the time - some three years ago - when Yugoslavia experienced its dissolution, we were doing our best to carry out the separation in a peaceful fashion and without any violence. For reasons already known, our initiatives did not bear fruit. 5 When Slovenia and Croatia seceded, and the dissolution of Yugoslavia had become inevitable, we organized a referendum in order to decide, in a democratic manner, the fate of Bosnia. By a two-thirds majority - exactly 64.4 per cent of the body of registered voters, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, opted for the country’s independence in the referendum of 1 March 1992. International recognition of our country followed soon thereafter, and so did the aggression against it. The decision on its recognition was made on 5 April 1992 and was announced the following day, 6 April 1992. The Serbian and Montenegrin aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina began on 5 April 1992, the very day when the decision on recognition of the country was adopted. The aggression has continued to this day with more or, at times, less intensity, and without any prospect of its coming to an end in the near future. The war that was forced upon Bosnia and Herzegovina and its peoples - and that has now entered its thirty-first month - is one of the bloodiest wars in the history of mankind. At the very beginning, it was not a war but rather an attack by a well-armed and equipped army, the former Yugoslav army, against defenceless citizens. The results of this uneven struggle are as follows: 70 per cent of our country came under occupation in the first months of the war; more than 200,000 civilians have been killed; over 1 million - or one fourth - of our inhabitants have been expelled from their homes; hundreds of cities and villages have been destroyed and burned. This cannot be described as a classic example of warfare between two armies. This has been a war of an army against civilians, followed by genocide and, to date, unprecedented destruction of cultural and religious objects. The world has not responded in an appropriate manner to such barbarity. Whether it was because of the brutality of the attack, or because it was morally and psychologically unprepared, or perhaps because of its entanglement in its conflicting interests, the world seemed confused and hesitant. When the news and pictures of new concentration camps in the heart of Europe came out, the public was astonished or shocked, but for the most part those responsible kept silent. Tens of thousands have perished in those camps and many thousands have disappeared without a trace. The more brutal an attack, the more hesitant the world became. The free world neither defended nor supported freedom. Our people, facing the threat of extermination and a clearly pronounced death sentence, decided to defend itself. But then it encountered a new absurdity. It found its hands tied. In short, before the war broke out against Bosnia and Herzegovina the United Nations imposed a notorious resolution that banned any import of weapons into the territory of former Yugoslavia. Everything changed: the war began, the aggressor and the victim were clearly discernable, but the arms embargo has remained in place as if nothing had happened in the interim. Justice was turned into injustice because the aggressor had weapons - weapons that had been stockpiled over the course of 40 years - while the victim was unarmed and its hands were kept tied. The resolution on the arms embargo became its own contradiction. By maintaining the imbalance in weaponry, it has prolonged the war and turned the peace negotiations into diktat by the better-armed aggressor. We said to the world, 'You do not have to come to defend us, but do at least untie our hands and allow us to defend ourselves. While they kill our children, rape our women and destroy all our relics, do recognize our right to self-defence.' So far, however, the arms embargo has remained in place. With only guns and rifles in their hands, our defenders have faced artillery and tanks. We have lost many people, and reports indicate that more than 90 per cent of them have been killed by grenades and artillery shells. Our cities and villages have been left at the mercy of the powerful military technology in the hands of the murderers. In the capital city of Sarajevo alone, more than 10,000 people have been killed and more than 50,000 wounded. Not a single family is without casualties, either killed or wounded. To all this, the world has sent us one message: negotiate. In the belief that the only right path was to continue to defend our land and that in this just struggle the peace-loving and freedom-loving peoples of the world would support us, we refused for a very long time to negotiate with war criminals. Finally, faced with the unbearable plight of our people and the world’s indifference, without any choice we accepted negotiations. It turned out that the aggressor had only been using negotiations as a way to bargain for time and to cover up its continuation of the aggression. 6 In March 1993, after long and painful negotiations and with many concessions from our side, we signed the so-called Vance-Owen plan. The aggressor rejected it. The next bloody round in the war ensued, to be followed by another round of negotiations that resulted, on 5 July 1994, in a peace plan drawn up by the Contact Group consisting of five great Powers: the United States of America, the United Kingdom, France, Germany and the Russian Federation. Again, we chose peace and the attackers, once again, opted for a continuation of the war. We accepted the unjust peace offer in order to halt the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We did so in the hope that the injustice of the peace plan could still be corrected in the years of peace. Knowing the Bosnian soul, we believed - and we still believe - that peace can save - but that war will destroy - all that we call Bosnia. What we call 'Bosnia' is not merely a small piece of land in the Balkans. For many of us, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not only a homeland: it is an idea; it is a belief that peoples of different religions, different nationalities and different cultural traditions can live together. Were this dream to be forever buried, were this idea of tolerance among the peoples of the area to be irretrievably lost, the guilt would lie not only with those who have been relentlessly killing Bosnia with their mortars for over 30 months now but also with many of the powerful elsewhere in the world who could have helped yet have chosen to do otherwise. Two days ago, I left Sarajevo. I did not leave by plane because the airport was closed. I had to take land routes through woods that are constantly exposed to fire and where many people are killed daily. For days there is no electricity, water and gas in the city. The capital is completely blocked and is virtually dying. Yesterday, after I had arrived at United Nations Headquarters, I received a letter from Srebrenica, a small town on the river Drina. The letter was supposed to be a report, but it was also a cry from a real human hell. I could not find the strength to read it a second time. Over three months ago 'ethnic cleansing' was reignited, and there is now a new wave. Thousands of civilians whose only fault is that they are not Serbs have been expelled from their homes in Banja Luka, Bijeljina, Janja and other towns under the control of Karadzic’s army. Once again, nothing has been done. The world seems to have grown gradually accustomed to unpunished violations of the basic norms of international law. This is a sorry situation, and one that concerns every man and every woman in the world, no matter how near or far from Bosnia they may be. For a very long time I rejected - indeed, I still reject - any so-called conspiracy theory, the theory that all that has happened to Bosnia has happened because its majority nation is Muslim and there are dark powers that consciously impel the Serbs towards the extermination of Bosnian Muslims. Those who support this theory have their arguments, and I believe they have been heard here before. They maintain that overt aggression, followed by genocide, concentration camps and other forms of the darkest fascism, is at work in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the world must be blind not to see it. Is the world blind? Does it consciously condone all these evils? It cannot be blind, and there is thus only the other alternative. This is the argument that has gained an increasing number of supporters. It will not be a good thing if the world’s billion Muslims come to accept it. The latest events surrounding the plan of the Contact Group have given the supporters of the so-called conspiracy theory an additional argument, namely, that Bosnia and Herzegovina has been offered a proposal backed by five major Powers and, therefore, by the majority of the international community, and it has been clearly stated that the side that rejected the plan would be punished while the side that accepted it would be protected. Yet the opposite has happened. The Serbs rejected the plan, and they have been rewarded by the suspension of sanctions. We have accepted the plan, and we have been punished by a complete blockade of Sarajevo. Both processes have occurred simultaneously, in parallel. Today, the highest civilian and military United Nations authorities are warning us: If you demand and succeed in achieving the lifting of the arms embargo, the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) will pull out of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so on. I have certainly not undertaken this long and arduous journey from Bosnia to America solely to convey facts that may be known to the majority of those here. We in Bosnia believe that, despite the hardships, good and justice cannot be defeated. We do not abandon our faith 7 that the world can be better and that we should all work and strive continually to make it better. In this conviction, and despite all our disappointments and frustrations, I have come to speak here before the Assembly and to present some of our proposals. From the General Assembly and the Security Council, we are asking the following: first, that all resolutions on Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted by the Security Council and the General Assembly be implemented; secondly, that measures be taken effectively to monitor the border between Serbia and Montenegro, on the one side, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the other, so that any transport of troops, weapons and military equipment across that border may be prevented or detected in timely fashion; thirdly, that should this transport occur, the decision on the suspension of some of the sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro - Security Council resolution 943 (1994) - be immediately revoked and that tightened sanction measures be imposed in accordance with the plan of the Contact Group of July 1994; fourthly, that there be no further easing of the sanctions towards Serbia and Montenegro until they recognize Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia within internationally recognized borders; fifthly, that a resolution be adopted, without delay, to strengthen the protection and mandate the extension of the safe areas provided for in Security Council resolutions 824 (1993) and 836 (1993), and in accordance with provisions of Article 6 of the Contact Group plan; and, sixthly, that decisions be taken to ensure an immediate end to the strangulation of Sarajevo and to prevent a recurrence of such a situation. The last-mentioned of these measures should envisage, as an integral element, the opening of the city along the north communication route - road and highway - through the creation of a demilitarized belt 2.5 kilometres wide on both sides of the thoroughfares. In this demilitarized belt, only United Nations troops and police might remain. The potential use of force against the strangulation of Sarajevo is envisaged under Article 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s decision of 9 February 1994. Provided that the above conditions were fulfilled, and on condition that UNPROFOR continued to carry out its mission, the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina would be willing to accept a new, modified formula to deal with the problem of the arms embargo. Under this formula we would limit our demand for the lifting of the arms embargo to the adoption of a formal decision, and the application or consequences of that decision would be deferred for six months. In this case UNPROFOR troops could remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Contact Group would fulfil its promise, and a clear message would be conveyed to Karadzic’s Serbs. I should like, in conclusion, to state our two commitments. First, our irrevocable objective is a democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina within internationally recognized borders, and with full ethnic, religious and political rights for all its citizens. In such a Bosnia and Herzegovina the Serbs will have all rights, up to the highest level of autonomy, but they cannot have a state within a state. Secondly, we consider that, like all other nations, we have an inalienable right to self-defence. Therefore, if our compromise proposal on the arms embargo is rejected for any reason, we shall ask our friends to secure the immediate, and even unilateral, lifting of the embargo. Unfortunately, I have to inform representatives that, just today, I learned that this compromise proposal is meeting resistance, and even rejection, from some Contact Group countries. Finally, I take this opportunity to express our sincere gratitude to all friends of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have supported its struggle for survival and freedom. Mr. President, at the outset, I should like to extend to you, brother Minister Amara Essy our congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. Allow me also to extend through you our congratulations to the sisterly country Côte d’Ivoire, with which Egypt enjoys bonds of friendship and cooperation. I take this opportunity also to commend your predecessor, Ambassador Insanally, the representative of Guyana. I would be remiss if I did not pay special tribute to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who is conducting with his well-known acumen and ability the work of this Organization amid turbulent political waves and rapid international changes, and in the face of rising expectations regarding the role that the United Nations could play in the world of today and tomorrow. As we know, earlier this month, the International Conference on Population and Development was held in Cairo. We in Egypt are greatly satisfied that the Conference concluded with a Programme of Action that deals with population questions from their cultural and development perspectives, on the basis of a profound understanding of the various dimensions of this problem. Undoubtedly, the clamour that accompanied that Conference was justified. Quite rightly, some have called attention to the fact that as the cultures of various nations differ from each other, there is no justification whatsoever to the imposition on any nation of a way of life it does not approve of, a way of thinking it does not palate or practices which it does not accept. On top of all that, there is the need to respect all religions, and to take into account the virtues they preach and the guidelines they embody for the conduct of individuals and nations. It might be important in this connection to refer to the consecutive conferences that have been held in the 1990s to deal with the social aspects of development. We believe that henceforth, the attention of developing countries and of all other societies should be focused on dealing with these aspects. This is what all peoples of the world have aspired after throughout the long years of international conflict which led to social and economic convulsions that resulted in backwardness, misery and untold suffering for millions of people. While we emphasize our interest in this approach that relates to social development and its global character, we also believe that the role of the United Nations therein is highly significant. Undoubtedly, the United Nations sponsorship of international conferences to this end consolidates its role in shaping the world of tomorrow, which must be a world of equitable development, collective security and social stability. I have made a point of beginning my statement by addressing the social dimension, in order to underline a new tendency and a renewed awareness of this significant aspect of international life. I call upon all countries to accord that aspect the high priority it has denied for decades, during the cold war with its international conflicts that impacted negatively, not only on the social agenda, but also on international action in that respect and beclouded people’s awareness of its significance and effects. During the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, Egypt called for a new international social 17 contract, to be formulated by all the world cultures and societies, so that it may act as a safety valve for the international community both now and in future. Realization of this vision will require, first and foremost, the creation of an appropriate international social environment, that would be inspired by the specific and distinctive characteristics of all societies and that would enrich the heritage of mankind. This could be done only through awareness of and respect for the integration and interaction of cultures. Proceeding from its awareness of the movement of history, Egypt was the first to sow the seeds of peace in the Middle East. Today, Egypt is determined to continue to assist all parties to overcome the obstacles that impede negotiations, and to lay the foundations of new, just and secure conditions in the Middle East. You may recall that last year, on behalf of my country, I called on the Governments and peoples of the Middle East to reflect on the future of our relations after the settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict. My call was based on the deep-seated Egyptian conviction that the only guarantee of a durable and stable peace in the Middle East is organically linked to the extent of the parties’ success in working out and laying the foundations of a new relationship between the countries of the region that would be based on a threefold foundation of political settlement, socio-economic development, and regional security and arms control. In dealing with our vision of a new Middle East, I am going to deal with each of those underpinnings in a context that has to do with the creation of a new situation which would allow all the creative energies of the region to be unleashed in a climate of security, stability and confidence in the future. I speak first of political settlement. Last year, we met here a few days after the signing of the historic agreement between President Arafat and Prime Minister Rabin in September 1993. Under that agreement, the Israeli and Palestinian parties mutually recognized each other and agreed on a Declaration of Principles regarding the arrangements of interim self-government. The wave of optimism that was generated at the time was tempered by the customary caution which lasted until an agreement enforcing the Declaration of Principles was signed in Cairo on 4 May 1994. That agreement constituted a significant step on the long road of peace towards the exercise by the Palestinian people of their legitimate national rights. The sight of the Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat entering Gaza on 1 July 1994 has thus epitomized the long history of the Palestinian people’s sacrifices and steadfastness, with which they gained the support and sympathy of all peace- and justice-loving peoples everywhere. President Arafat’s return was the first dividend of the peace option that heightened international respect for the Palestinian people’s responsible position and courageous decision at this historical and crucial juncture in their long struggle. Allow me to pay tribute from this rostrum to the advocates of peace, on both the Palestinian and the Israeli sides. At the same time, I call upon both sides to continue to tend the shoot of peace until it becomes stronger and more deeply rooted. Moreover, I call for the expeditious adoption of new concrete measures that would assure the Palestinian people in the occupied West Bank that the peace dividends will embrace all the Palestinian territories occupied since 1967. One of the most important of such measures is the alleviation of the burden of occupation and mitigation of the daily suffering of the Palestinian people. The organization of Palestinian elections in all the Palestinian territories would enable them to move from the first step of self-government in Gaza and Jericho towards the exercise of their full political rights, in the framework of self-determination that is the appropriate and genuine resolution of this conflict. Moreover, I appeal to both sides, in equally strong terms, to confront all acts of violence and practices of terrorism firmly and persistently to ensure safety for all and guarantee that peace will have the upper hand. Egypt has commended the progress achieved on the Jordanian-Israeli track. The 25 July 1994 agreement to put an end to the state of war between the two countries is a positive landmark on the road to peace. Egypt welcomes this significant step and is confident that the rising momentum will soon help achieve tangible progress on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks, based on full withdrawal from the occupied territories of both countries. Secondly, I wish to speak of economic development. Scrutiny of the Middle East situation makes it clear that there is an organic link between peace and development in that region, whose peace and security are pivotal to the world’s peace and security. The laying of the groundwork for the social and economic development of the countries of that region is a necessary step, without which peace will remain meaningless and pointless. At 18 the same time, the process of development can be successful only within the context of balanced and well- planned strategies that take into account the interests of all parties. In this regard, hopes are high and prospects are spacious enough. Nevertheless there is no room in all this for the domination by one economy of another. The Middle East can accommodate a comprehensive process of the production and marketing of all that each country of the region can excel in. Egypt, which is undergoing at present a stage of radical economic reform that aims at ensuring for its trade, industry and private sector a significant breakthrough, is qualified to play a leading role in the economic development of the region. This should enhance the image of the Middle East as a region that attracts increasing tourism, flourishing trade and thriving investment, side by side with an advanced productive capacity. We nominate the Middle East to be the cradle of new economic giants. Egypt does not seek opportunities of rapid gains, but rather an advanced economic framework that would contribute significantly to changing the climate of the Middle East and reshaping the region’s ability to contribute to the interactions of the developed world economy. Thirdly, I speak of regional security and arms control. Comprehensive peace, in its wider sense, will never be upheld in the Middle East unless we change our old perceptions. These were the products of years of wars and enmity that engendered the belief that security could be assured only through the acquisition and stockpiling of weapons of mass destruction. This regional arms race, that plagued the region and accelerated in a climate of mutual suspicion and hostility, must be tamed in order that we may adapt to the new realities prevailing in the region. Egypt believes that peace in the Middle East must be strengthened by taking arms-control measures, of which the first would be a reduction of the levels of armaments. The region’s experience has shown that a higher level of quantitative or qualitative armament, in the case of any country has never deterred aggression nor guaranteed security. If such experience is reason enough for reassessing our policies in this respect, the political achievements which have put us squarely on the road to peace make us question the wisdom of escalating armament under conditions of peace. If the first prerequisite is arms reduction, the second is the achievement of a better security balance amongst the countries of the region. The emergence of a new more stable Middle East will never take place unless we renounce the concepts of military superiority and agree to rid the region of the weapons of mass destruction. The persistence of such concepts can only jeopardize the existent possibility of creating a new and different Middle East. Any disruption of the security balance in the region, is bound to generate suspicions that may cause the region to slide once again into competition, escalation, dispute, conflict and confrontation. If we are seeking normal relations between the parties, we have to ensure the co-equality of the obligations of all countries in the region. It is unacceptable that one party, to the exclusion of all others, should be accorded a special exceptional status. Unless this is addressed, serious cracks will develop in the foundations we are laying which may deepen and widen, and undermine the whole edifice. Proceeding from this, the Egyptian initiative launched by President Mubarak in April 1990, in which he proposed that the Middle East should be declared a zone free of weapons of mass destruction, was commensurate with the concepts of the new international era at the regional level and came as a natural extension of Egypt’s 1974 initiative to declare the Middle East a nuclear-weapons-free zone. In this regard, Egypt strongly urges all countries of the region to accede to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and accept the application of the safeguards regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency. This, if it takes place, will be a major step towards peace and reconciliation in the Middle East that would safeguard against any setbacks in future regional relations. Egypt attaches great importance to Israel’s rapid undertaking of this step as we approach the date of the Conference for the Review and Extension of the non-proliferation Treaty in 1995. Otherwise, the extension of this Treaty, which aims at halting nuclear proliferation, would lead to the consecration of an adverse reality that is neither balanced nor proper and which runs counter to the principle of universality. We would find the persistence of such an exceptional situation strange and unacceptable. Egypt takes this opportunity to urge Israel to respond positively to this extremely earnest call which safeguards the region against the evils of an unnecessary arms race. It is a step that would help strengthen regional security. In this era of peace, we should rethink our priorities and view the prerequisites of security from a different point 19 of view based on the new relations of peace instead of from considerations which had the upper hand at a time of regional conflicts. Israel should also conform to, rather than depart from, the international way of thinking that calls for universal adherence to the non-proliferation Treaty. We adamantly insist on this in order to avoid a race in this dangerous field. While discussing issues of general concern to our world and its problems, I must also refer specifically to the prevailing situations in our region that create turbulence, problems, hopes and pain. Brotherly Yemen is healing its wounds after discord and strife. We are hopeful that sufficient patience will be demonstrated to bring about national reconciliation in accordance with the values of the Yemeni people and in such a way as to ensure their continued march towards development and prosperity. In Iraq, the brotherly Iraqi people remain in the grip of the tragedy that befell them and we look forward with them to the day when their suffering will come to an end. This would require the Government of Iraq to respond to the demands of international legality and the unambiguous and formal recognition of the identity of Kuwait, its sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence. While addressing the issues of the Middle East, we call on Iran to extend good-neighbourliness to its Arab brethren. In this regard, serious work is needed to resolve the problem of the occupied Arab islands in the Gulf. This would represent a positive indication that relations in the region can be conducted on the basis of a positive dialogue dealing with the political tendencies that are a source of concern in various parts of the region. I turn now to Egypt’s closest neighbours in the region. In this connection, I may say that the people and Government of Libya have now the clear political will to put an end to the Libyan-Western crisis concerning Lockerbie by putting the accused on trial and attempting to reach practical solutions for the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions. An objective view of the problem confirms the importance of respecting international legality since the trial of persons accused of an international crime is a necessity and the more expeditiously it takes place the better it is for the process of justice. Similarly, in addressing the issues pertaining to its neighbours, we must also mention Sudan, with which we have had very special ties since the dawn of history. Today, Sudan is suffering from a challenge to its sovereignty in the south as well as an impediment to the development and prosperity of its people. In both instances, Egypt stands firmly and clearly in support of the unity and territorial integrity of Sudan. We cannot accept its fragmentation or division. With the same strength and clarity, Egypt supports the right of the Sudanese people to a tranquil and stable life that would afford them the opportunity to look to the future. In this framework, Sudan has a well-known history of tolerance and cordial relations amongst its people and with all its neighbours and brethren. There is no doubt that Sudan’s implementation of policies in this direction would ensure a change in the strained relations in that region. During Egypt’s chairmanship of the Organization of African Unity, which expired in June, the African continent witnessed a number of important achievements, the most important of which was the success of the organization in creating a mechanism for the prevention, management and resolution of African conflicts. This is a development that contributes to the international efforts deployed in that area. It also complements the role of the United Nations within the framework of the principles and objectives of the Charter. Over the same period, Africa has also witnessed the entry into force of the convention establishing the African Economic Community. This represents a significant step by the African continent towards the realization of economic integration, which will enable it to deal with the new international economic realities and to face up to the potential consequences of international economic developments that may not be entirely in the interests of the African States. Moreover, we in Africa are currently studying, in all earnestness, the social and economic situation in the continent. We are fully aware of the high priority of this problem to Africa’s present and future generations. This will be the subject of a special meeting of African foreign ministers soon to be held in Cairo. The African continent’s share of human tragedies has been abundant enough, as demonstrated by the horrendous events in Somalia, Burundi and Rwanda. While Africa reaffirms its principal responsibility to deal with such sorrowful events by providing the necessary troops to undertake peace-keeping and peace-building operations, experience has shown that the humanitarian, political and economic dimensions of such events require a positive contribution by the entire international community, primarily within the context of the United Nations. Such contribution has been forthcoming and represents a unique international and regional solidarity. 20 As regards Somalia, the tragedy is still unfolding, despite strenuous African and international efforts to achieve national reconciliation between the warring Somali factions. The crisis remains elusive owing to tribal rivalries and self-centered interests. The persistence of this situation has further frustrated the international community, to the extent that a number of States have decided to withdraw their troops from the peace-keeping operation or to call for the complete termination of the United Nations Operation in Somalia. We are fully aware of the motives that have led to such decisions and proposals, and we emphasize that the responsibility for putting an end to the current deteriorating situation in Somalia and for reaching a solution to the crisis rests essentially with the leaders of the warring factions. We are of the view that it is unacceptable and unwarranted that the major Powers should impose a certain solution or a particular leader in Somalia. At the same time, we cannot wash our hands of this problem. There is still an obligation on the part of the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity and the League of Arab States to assist in achieving a just settlement to the crisis. From Somalia we turn to Angola, in which recent developments indicate a glimmer of hope that a final and peaceful solution may be close at hand. Egypt welcomes the official acceptance by the Government of Angola of the proposals concerning national reconciliation. We call for the intensification of efforts to achieve peace in order that the Lusaka Conference may succeed and for the full implementation of the peace agreement, as well as Security Council resolutions 864 (1993) and 932 (1994). We also strongly urge UNITA to show its goodwill by negotiating constructively to reach a peace agreement without delay. It was our hope that a just solution to the Bosnian crisis would be found before the commencement of this session. Unfortunately, the painful reality is that the crisis is still with us. While we accept the position of the Contact Group in its proposal of the peace plan which has been accepted by the Bosnian Government regardless of its shortcomings, yet we demand the most basic level of rationality and justice in managing this crisis. Frankly speaking, we believe that lifting or easing the sanctions imposed on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Serbia and Montenegro - without deploying credible and capable international observers along its borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina or securing its recognition of Bosnia as a sovereign State amounts to a negative development that is bound to hinder a just settlement, that bespeaks acquiescence in considerations that run counter to the norms of justice and is tantamount to surrender to the policies of aggression and racism. A few days ago, the Security Council adopted a rather hasty resolution easing the sanctions imposed on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Serbia and Montenegro. It would have been more useful if the Council had given priority to a review of the extent of the implementation of its many previous resolutions, adopted under Chapter VII of the Charter. Those resolutions contain provisions and requirements that should have been implemented prior to any consideration of the easing or reviewing of sanctions. The rules of international justice should not be twisted to reward the aggressor for mere promises that lack credibility or effectiveness. Moreover, the effectiveness of the observers currently deployed on the Bosnian-Yugoslav border is highly questionable. Indeed, in our view, they are ineffective and insufficient. Egypt, as a country contributing troops to the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), reiterates that the purpose of the presence of these troops is to provide genuine protection for those areas until such time as the Bosnian armed forces would be in a position to undertake the task of defending their territory. The withdrawal of UNPROFOR while the power vacuum continues - an idea that is being floated - would be a further step towards handing the protected areas to the aggressors, who have the necessary power to control them. This would certainly have negative implications for international relations as a whole. We are at a unique juncture in history: our generation has been afforded an opportunity to lay the foundations of a new era. Today, as we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we feel that all nations, industrial and developing alike, must contribute to the development of a common vision of the new world order - a vision that will consolidate the foundations of our common future on the principles of democracy, humanity and equality, arrived at through consensus by all members of the international community. We wish to make it clear that any attempt to marginalize the role of the developing countries in formulating the global vision for the coming era would involve the risk of drawing new lines of confrontation in place of those that existed during the cold war. Those new lines of confrontation would be ruled by economic 21 and developmental criteria and considerations that may ring down a curtain thick enough to separate the North from the South, deepen disagreement between them, and give rise to a situation inconsistent with the interdependence and cohesion of the present era. In this connection, I refer to demands of the developing countries voiced during the meeting held in Cairo this summer under the umbrella of the Non-Aligned Movement. The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations coincides with the flagging of initiatives and proposals for the restructuring of the Organization’s mechanisms. Such efforts will never rise to the level of expectations unless they are preceded by an effort to reform our thinking, to bring it into line with the changes in the international situation and thereby to translate the new collective vision into a concrete programme of action that would be based on genuine consensus and that would afford us a real opportunity to ensure the stability of international relations. In this context, it is needless to point out that such a process of thought reform as the one I have just referred to must impact on our efforts as we embark on the process of restructuring the United Nations and, in particular, of reforming the Security Council with its extensive competence. We must emphasize several points regarding the process of reforming the work of the Security Council. First, it must be carried out on a regional basis, not on a specific-country basis. Secondly, the new seats - and there may be two additional ones each for Latin America, Asia and Africa - must be allocated on the basis of the criteria stipulated in the Charter. Thirdly, it is not essential at this stage to specify the two States from each region that are to occupy the additional seats. The principle of rotation could be applied to several States satisfying the criteria agreed upon, taking into account the specific characteristics of each region. Fourthly, agreement must be reached simultaneously on a number of issues concerning reform of the Council’s working methods and procedures and the need to increase its transparency. Fifthly, the framework within which the right of veto is used should be reviewed and defined. We should not pursue our work in this regard under pressure of time or on the assumption that consideration of the matter must be concluded by the time designated for the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. Finally, it must be emphasized that rational restructuring is infinitely preferable to what might result from a hasty decision that may please some States, upset the overwhelming majority of States that suffer from lack of representation in the Security Council and put the Council itself in a position of extreme lack of credibility. In this regard, I wish to state that a number of countries are eligible for membership of the Security Council in accordance with the criteria to which I have referred. One of those countries is Egypt, which has made significant contributions to the maintenance of international peace and security in all the political, economic and social fields, and which continues to contribute to the cause of peace and prosperity at the regional level and in the context of its various affiliations. Economic clout has become the principal tool of competition and the determining factor in the distribution of power and influence on the political and economic map of the globe. At the same time, social development has become a goal which we all pursue and technological development has become a prerequisite of economic progress and social advancement. It is a challenge that must be faced by those who aspire to progress and development. Recent international developments have highlighted the strong link between peace, stability and development. Global stability cannot be achieved without balanced and sustainable development. The existing structural imbalances in international economic relations will continue to cause the social turmoil and conflicts that turn under our eyes to disputes which threaten international peace and security. On its new journey - starting in New York, moving on to Rio de Janeiro and Vienna, passing through Cairo to be continued in Copenhagen and Beijing - the United Nations has proved that it remains the global umbrella under which different ideas and positions interact. We call on the United Nations not only to contribute to but to lead the process of formulating the new concepts and ideas required to lay the foundations of the new international order and the relations between the North and the South, particularly in the area of social development. This requires an overall process of rationalization, as indicated by the Secretary-General. In 22 his current report on the work of the Organization he refers to 'the common misperception of the United Nations as an organization dedicated primarily to peace-keeping.' (A/49/1, para. 1) He states that economic and social questions should be at the forefront of United Nations efforts. That is what should happen. I should like sincerely to congratulate Mr. Essy on his election as president over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. His country and mine maintain friendly diplomatic relations and close links strengthened by the historic ties between Africa and Latin America. I wish him success in his endeavours and offer him the fullest cooperation of the Peruvian delegation. We live in an age that confronts the international community as a whole, and the United Nations in particular, with big challenges. Representative democracy and the market economy have spread throughout the world, along with an intensification of integration processes and the globalization of trade. Nevertheless, international peace and security have not yet been consolidated in all regions. We have witnessed events such as the unexpected collapse of States that had seemed to be solid, episodes of massive violence within some countries and the tragic and complex situations that resulted, persistent aggression against a Member of this Organization and the exacerbation of nationalism in many parts of the world. All these things challenge the present capacity of the United Nations to respond. Faced with such challenges, the United Nations must reaffirm its central role as the indispensable leader in the maintenance of international peace and security and in the promotion of world-wide development. This is its duty, not only because of the universal character of the United Nations system, but also because of the contractual significance of the instrument by which it was established. In this respect, we must bear in mind that the potential of the United Nations as the foremost international Organization can be reinforced by increased and more efficient coordination with the regional organizations. By the same token, we attach special importance to the General Assembly’s exercise of the powers assigned to it by the Charter, as well as to the expansion and reform of the Security Council. With regard to the latter, we should seek to correct the imbalances in its present composition, improve its decision-making machinery and make its working methods more transparent, while striving to make its composition truly representative of all Member States of the Organization. As the Secretary-General pointed out in his reports, 'An Agenda for Peace' (A/47/277) and 'An Agenda for Development' (A/48/935), it now appears to be politically feasible to respond to the multiple requirements of international peace and security while encouraging cooperation in the social and economic field, because the complementarity of these elements is such that without economic development there can be no peace or security. 'An Agenda for Peace' must therefore be complemented by an agenda for development. In this way the United Nations could lead the international community, in accordance with the purposes and principles of its Charter, and integrate the actions of our Organization with the work of the Bretton Woods institutions, and above all the World Trade Organization. In this regard, we share the concern of the Secretary- General, who has warned that the subject of development is in danger of vanishing from the United Nations agenda. We must therefore emphasize that the grave problems related to development must be included in our Organization’s work and that developed and developing countries must agree on the need to address, urgently and adequately, critical situations such as dire poverty. The coming World Summit for Social Development offers us an opportunity that we must seize. Peru, which took part in the early stages of the process that led to the decision to convene that Summit, will contribute to it the national programme for social development that the Government of President Fujimori has been carrying out, a programme that gives priority attention to the basic 10 services of health, education and the administration of justice, particularly for the poorest. In the same context, Peru believes that the internal efforts of developing countries in the vital spheres of social and economic advance must be matched by high-priority multilateral and bilateral cooperation. I must also observe that in most of our countries social development also means stability. Therefore, continuing democratization and modernization is largely dependent on the assignment of high priority to this inescapable challenge. Along with the problems of development, the rapidly evolving situation today presents us, as an international Organization, with a number of particularly complex subjects. Outstanding among them is the process of reconciliation and peace in the Middle East, which will have important effects on regional and world stability and security, as well as on trade, regional cooperation and disarmament. Peru supports this process, and believes that resolutions adopted in the General Assembly must properly reflect that reality and contribute to the maintenance of an appropriate political climate to advance the negotiating process. We also welcome the new South Africa, which embodies the fulfilment of the essential principles of the Charter and which is a possible factor for regional stability. It also provides an example of democratic change. The tragic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has made clear the serious limitations of multilateral organizations, demands increased efforts by the international community to ensure an early and lasting peace. I now wish to address a subject that we cannot ignore, one that affects the international community as a whole and that is particularly delicate for my own country: the drug problem. Peru reiterates its resolve to continue to fight illegal drug trafficking, as well as its conviction that this serious problem urgently requires the unwavering political commitment of the international community. That alone will make it possible to adopt concrete and realistic measures to stand up to this scourge in accordance with the mandates of the Global Programme of Action adopted by the General Assembly in 1990. International coordination and cooperation against drug-trafficking are indispensable. In that regard, I am pleased to point out that the recent Summit of Presidents of the member countries of the Rio Group accepted the proposal of the President of the Republic of Peru, Alberto Fujimori, to coordinate legislation to penalize money- laundering, allow the confiscation of property linked to drug-trafficking, establish swift extradition procedures, promote judicial and police cooperation on this matter and bolster cooperation for alternative development. My country also pays special attention to human rights. Their promotion and defence constitute an inescapable obligation of the international community, which must therefore reinforce and improve current mechanisms of the system for the protection of human rights, in order to increase their efficacy. We are pleased to note the growing recognition and support by this international Organization for those countries that, like us, are continuing to struggle to defend life and civilized ways of coexistence against the unjustifiable and irrational violence of terrorism. For us, this means that the international community has made progress, by recognizing that in countries such as Peru terrorist groups are the primary, the true, violators of human rights. In the current context of renewal, we supported the creation of the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in an effort to improve United Nations measures to prevent and monitor violations of human rights, whether the violators be government agents or others. It is a matter of pride for our region that a distinguished Latin American diplomat is the first to fill this high office. Within this chamber last year, the President of Peru announced that the leader of the bloodiest terrorist movement in the Western Hemisphere - caught as a result of our successful campaign for national peace - had acknowledged in writing the clear defeat of his totalitarian aims and his bloodthirsty methods. Today I am pleased to confirm that Peru is swiftly progressing towards reconciliation and peace. The Peruvian strategy, which involves the State and civil society, has borne fruit, as evidenced by the mass desertions of terrorists as a result of the 'repentance law' passed on repentance and the return of peaceful villagers to their homes, with the support and backing of the State. My country, having guaranteed democracy and economic freedom, now has, after many years, excellent prospects. We have established a new national 11 environment by consistently applying economic, social and pacification policies. The results prove that we have taken the correct path, as shown by the growth in gross national product - 7 per cent last year, and projected to be between 9 per cent and 10 per cent this year, figures which constitute the highest growth rates in the hemisphere. This new situation will allow us, for the first time in decades, to give social issues the priority they deserve. The economic policies followed in Peru have made possible a social programme implemented through non-inflationary investment, with our own resources. This programme has the technical backing of international financial institutions and is in line with the conceptual approaches on social development promoted by the World Bank, the United Nations Development Programme and a growing number of non-governmental organizations that share a belief in putting the human being at the core of development efforts. To do otherwise would be to make sustainable long-term growth impossible. This essential task for the whole of Peruvian society requires the cooperation and support of the international community. My country’s contribution to change in the world has been made possible by the efforts of our people, who have enabled us to enjoy internal peace, security, stability and economic growth. The path we are taking leads the most tenacious nation in South America, a people of long-proven creativity, on the threshold of a new millennium with the enthusiasm, the ability and the necessary tools for its development. Allow me at the outset to extend to Mr. Amara Essy the warmest congratulations of the Greek Government on his election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We are particularly pleased that his presence this year will provide the African States, with which Greece maintains excellent relations, with a further opportunity to make an essential contribution to the successful outcome of our work. I would also like to thank Ambassador Insanally for the constructive and efficient manner in which he performed his duties as President of the General Assembly during its forty-eighth session. I wish to take this opportunity to address sincere congratulations to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who is striving with courage, energy, political will, vision and perspicacity for a new world, a world in which law and ethics will prevail, and for the restructuring of the Organization to enable it to meet the challenges of our time. He has our full support in his efforts to fulfil his mission. The Foreign Minister of Germany, in his capacity as President of the Council of the European Union, delivered a statement yesterday on behalf of the European Union and its member States. My Government subscribes to its content. However, I should like to address some issues of particular interest to Greece which, apart from the statement of my German colleague, Klaus Kinkel, are further elaborated in the European Union’s memorandum. The United Nations is facing the challenges and preoccupations of our times. And now, more than ever, it must become the forum to which all those who are suffering injustice will naturally resort, knowing that justice will be done. To this end, it is the duty of all to abide by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, which they have accepted of their own free will, and to observe the rules, to the development and establishment of which they have contributed. In this context, all must respect United Nations resolutions, particularly those of the Security Council, the body on which the international community has conferred primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. This is the only way in which we can strengthen the moral stature of the United Nations and contribute to the attainment of its goals. Bearing this in mind, we welcome and strongly support the efforts of the Secretary-General in the area of preventive diplomacy and the maintenance and promotion of international peace and security, within a broader framework which, in addition to the political and military aspects, also has an economic and social dimension, particularly with respect to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Respect for human rights constitutes one of the most important factors for the maintenance of international peace and security and must be regarded as a prerequisite for development in all areas and for democratic existence. The Vienna World Conference on Human Rights was an important milestone, as was the establishment of the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights, whose mandate we fully support, and the mission of the Centre for Human Rights. The principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, as well as other international acts and instruments, should guide the actions of all Member States on a daily basis. The international community is called upon to confront many problems among the Members of the Organization. Fortunately, considerable progress has been achieved during the past year with regard to some of them. I should like first to refer to the case of the Middle East. Greece, a neighbouring country and a traditional friend of the peoples in the region, is particularly pleased by the continuous and promising steps taken recently to strengthen peace and security and to arrive at satisfactory arrangements for the Palestinian people, steps which will open up prospects for a final, generally acceptable, settlement of the long-lasting Middle East crisis. The other case I should like to mention is that of the restoration of democracy in South Africa. Who would not agree that the peaceful change achieved in that country by leaders such as President Mandela and Vice-President De Klerk, is an example to follow? This change was made possible, however, only because both men had the will to abolish the system of apartheid and to establish a democracy based on tolerance and respect for human rights. In both cases Greece did its utmost to contribute to the successful outcome of the efforts pursued to achieve these results. 23 However, during the same period of time, mankind has had to endure crises which have caused incalculable loss of human life and tremendous suffering. Unfortunately, there are many such examples that could be mentioned in Africa, Asia, Central America and Europe. Rwanda, whose tragedy borders on genocide, is one of the most telling cases. Greece, as a member of the European troika, took part in a mission of the European Union to Rwanda and its neighbouring countries, in order to assist in the task of finding solutions to this tragic political conflict and to the problem of the refugees. As a representative of a Balkan country that has a primary interest in stability in the Balkans, and contributes decisively to its consolidation, I will now refer specifically to the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, which continues to be a source of serious concern to the international community, and to European countries in particular. In spite of the major efforts of the international community, war is raging in the region for the fourth consecutive year. The victims on all sides are countless and the number of refugees is increasing dramatically. Greece actively participates in all international peace-making efforts. During the first part of this year when Greece held the presidency of the European Union, my country undertook a series of initiatives, aimed at arriving at a political solution of the conflict through negotiations. The proposals of the contact group constitute a realistic basis for a settlement and must be accepted by the Bosnian Serb side as well. President Milosevic’s decisive stance vis-à-vis the Bosnian Serbs strengthens this approach, and we hope that it will lead the Bosnian Serbs to accept the peace plan. In this context, we welcome Security Council resolutions 942 (1994) and 943 (1994). The concentration of efforts aimed at ending the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina does not mean that less attention should be paid to a solution of the problem of the Krajinas, nor that its importance should be underestimated. Greece is willing to contribute actively to the rapprochement of the parties involved, so that a mutually acceptable settlement might be achieved. We have, however, inherited yet another problem since the dissolution of the former Yugoslavia, that of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. It lies in the fact that the new State insists on calling itself 'Macedonia'. The Greek people and the Greek Government cannot accept this denomination because, together with provisions of the Constitution of Skopje, of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the propaganda against our country, as well as the appropriation of Greek national and historical emblems on their flag, it indicates irredentist claims against Greece. We hope that the good offices of Mr. Vance, on the basis of Security Council resolution 817 (1993), and the ensuing negotiating process within which Greece has demonstrated its good will and constructive approach, will soon bear fruit. Another serious international and European problem, which is of considerable interest to the United Nations, the European Union and Greece in particular and which, unfortunately, remains unsolved, is that of Cyprus. More than 20 years after the Turkish invasion of Cyprus and 20 years after this body, in this very Hall, demanded the immediate withdrawal of all foreign occupation troops, a considerable part of Cyprus is still under occupation. Basic human rights are still being violated, and the tragedy of the refugees and of the missing and enclaved persons persists. Furthermore, in spite of the relevant United Nations resolutions, the mass establishment of Turkish settlers continues unabated, thus distorting the demographic composition of the island. The Secretary-General, in his latest report to the Security Council, unequivocally acknowledged that it is the lack of political will of the Turkish Cypriot side that, over a number of years, has impeded any progress in the peace process. In spite of the many face-saving efforts being made, the Secretary-General’s conclusion cannot be questioned. But even if some would wish to deliberately hide from the truth, the recent decision of the Turkish Cypriots, which rejects the very basis for a settlement - namely the Federation - that had been agreed and sought from the start, as well as the unequivocal and unconditional support that this decision received from Ankara, revealed the true Turkish sentiments and objectives: contempt for the United Nations resolutions and the preservation of illegally acquired territories following the invasion and the occupation. There can be no doubt that this Turkish attitude of provocation is supported by the Turkish military presence on the island, which has gone unpunished for so many years. That is the reason why we believe that the efforts of the international community should focus, as a matter of priority, on the withdrawal of the Turkish occupying troops. In this context, President Clerides’ fair and balanced proposal for the demilitarization of Cyprus should be duly taken into consideration. 24 The Secretary-General’s recent efforts are in progress, and we are awaiting their results. However, mere verbal support by the international community for the Secretary-- General’s initiative will not suffice. The time has come to assist the Secretary-General with concrete actions aimed at Ankara, which is, of course, the key factor for developments in Cyprus. If, however, those efforts are not successful, as has happened in other cases, the international community will have to consider new, alternative methods and measures that will ensure the implementation of United Nations resolutions calling for the restoration of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity of the Republic of Cyprus, together with respect for the rights and freedoms of all its citizens. The strengthening of good-neighbourly relations on the basis of respect for international law, national sovereignty, human rights and non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States is the cornerstone of Greek foreign policy. The implementation of those principles bears particular importance with regard to the relations between Greece and its neighbours. In this context, it is the sincere wish of the Greek Government that relations between Greece and Turkey be normalized. It goes without saying that such a normalization of Greek-Turkish relations presupposes a just and lasting solution to the Cyprus problem and the restoration of the rule of international law with regard to Cyprus. Moreover, respect for international law and human rights, in conformity with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations, the Helsinki Final Act and the Charter of Paris, is the only possible basis for the establishment and consolidation of a climate of mutual trust between Greece and Turkey. Greece abides by the same principles in its foreign policy towards Albania. We aspire, through a dialogue which we have repeatedly sought, to the development of good-neighbourly relations and cooperation in all areas, within a framework of mutual respect for territorial integrity and national sovereignty and of the unconditional implementation of international instruments that safeguard respect for human rights. Ample evidence of this policy is provided by the extensive and multifaceted economic and humanitarian assistance that my country has extended to Albania in recent years, in support of that country’s reconstruction following a long period of totalitarian rule and in support of its economy by various means, including, inter alia, the massive flow of remittances from illegal Albanian immigrants, hundreds of thousands of whom live and work illegally in Greece. On the other hand, the large Greek minority in Albania had been deprived by the previous regime of all its fundamental rights and had hoped that a change in Government would lead to a change in their conditions. Unfortunately, however, the new Albanian Government has pursued the same policies of its predecessors. Members of the minority are persecuted, and many internationally recognized fundamental human and minority rights are being violated in practice and not admitted to, in spite of the verbal assurances to the contrary of the Albanian Government. This is the case, for instance, in the field of education, with which the High Commissioner for National Minorities of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, Mr. Van Der Stoel, with whom the Greek Government is harmoniously cooperating, has been especially concerned. The oppressive policy of the Albanian Government has culminated in the harsh sentences delivered against five leading members of the Greek minority, after a parody of investigation and judicial procedure, as witnessed by unprejudiced observers from international organizations. All the above justifies the impression that the Albanian leadership is promoting a climate of harassment against the Greek minority, so as to force its members to abandon their ancestral homes. Greece reaffirms that, as it has assured the Secretary-General, it sincerely favours the development of good-neighbourly relations and constructive cooperation with Albania, and calls on the Albanian Government, in conformity with its international commitments, to respect the human rights and the individual freedoms of the Greek minority, so as to create the conditions necessary to ensure the development of such relations. There are many other problems on which I would like to express the views of my country. However, time is limited and I will constrain myself to addressing those we deem particularly important. Significant and daring steps have been taken in the area of disarmament. In spite of the end of the confrontation between East and West, however, arms control and disarmament remain issues of primary importance due to the appearance of new sources of tension which jeopardize our efforts towards the non-proliferation of arms. 25 The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) has played an important role to this day, and we believe that its unconditional and unlimited extension at the coming Conference of 1995 will further strengthen the overall legal status of non-proliferation. We also hope that negotiations for a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty will soon yield positive results. Moreover, Greece hopes to contribute to the entry into force of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons at the earliest possible date by promoting without delay the relevant ratification procedures. Furthermore, my country is deeply concerned about the problem of the increasing presence of mines and other unexploded devices and has decided to declare a moratorium, without exception, on the export, sale or transfer of all anti-personnel land-mines. We call on all States to adopt similar measures. It is time to accelerate and strengthen multilateral negotiations in the area of disarmament. The international community should prove that it is ready and willing to take the steps which will bring about practical solutions to the problem of disarmament and international security. We believe that an increase of the membership of the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva would greatly contribute to that end. In addition, special attention should be given to the African continent, not only regarding the settlement of political disputes between various States but also with regard to the establishment of the necessary political, economic and social conditions for the restoration of peace and security and the improvement of the economic situation in all African countries. The United Nations rightly places special emphasis on the economic and social fields, which are so essential to peaceful coexistence among peoples. We must all thoroughly consider the Agenda for Development and attempt to find a way for developing countries to benefit from the achievements of industrialized States. We must work together to find a new form of economic relations, taking into account the difficulties with which we are all confronted. The International Conference on Population and Development which has just taken place in Cairo, the forthcoming World Summit for Social Development, in Copenhagen, in March 1995, and the Fourth World Conference on Women, in Beijing, in September 1995, as well as all the other meetings that took place last year on economic and social issues, are paving the way in the right direction. Moreover, I feel it necessary to underline the importance that Greece attaches to the struggle against the international scourge of terrorism. My country unequivocally condemns all terrorist acts and actively contributes - working within the framework of close cooperation with third countries and competent international organizations - to all actions and efforts aimed at their elimination. However, I want to stress that economic and social development, safeguarding the rule of law and respect for human rights and individual freedoms are the most efficient and radical means to do away, once and for all, with this international scourge. In concluding, I would like to express my country’s interest in the future development of the institutional aspects of the Organization, in particular with regard to the Security Council, and to stress that Greece is willing to contribute actively to the consultations currently under way on these issues so as to achieve the best possible result for all Members of the United Nations. In the same spirit, I would like to reaffirm Greece’s full and unwavering commitment to the purposes and principles of the Organization within the context of international cooperation and solidarity. We undertake to contribute with all our means to the struggles and efforts to create lasting conditions that will ensure, at the dawn of the next millennium, that all peoples fully enjoy the benefits of freedom and development within a peaceful, democratic and creative environment. It is my pleasure at the outset to extend to you as President of the Assembly at its forty-ninth session, Sir, and to your fraternal country, Côte d’Ivoire, my sincere congratulations on your election to preside over this momentous international assembly. I should like to assure you of the cooperation of my delegation. We are confident that your experience in the affairs of this Organization will enable you to conduct the work of this session with competence and efficiency. I should also like to express our appreciation to Ambassador Samuel Insanally, who conducted the proceedings of the last session with great skill. It is also my pleasure to take this opportunity to convey our sincere congratulations to the Republic of South Africa on regaining its full membership in the United Nations after its liberation from apartheid, trusting that it will resume its role as active member of the international community. I avail myself of this opportunity as well to mention with appreciation the persistent efforts and tireless drive of His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary- General of the United Nations, to enhance the role of the United Nations in international affairs and to further the Organization’s noble objectives. We also note with appreciation his sincere and continuous endeavours in the field of development and international economic cooperation, to which the content of his report “An Agenda for Development” bears witness. The Secretary-General’s report “An Agenda for Development” prompts us to reflect anew, as we approach the twenty-first century, upon the future of international 3 cooperation in all its aspects. The need for such questioning undoubtedly gains an air of urgency at a time when the features of the international post-cold war order have yet to take a clearly identifiable shape. As the international community witnessed profound changes in the wake of the 1815 Vienna Conference, the big powers and others met to establish patterns for relationships amongst States within the framework of a global order, to be buttressed by an international consensus. Yet the current international period, fraught with a host of interlocked variables, is noted for the absence of a similar consensus whereby the features of the new world order could be identified. Change is a law of nature. However, the accelerating pace of change that we witness nowadays is unprecedented; it has sent tremors into the otherwise monotonous progression of events and has made the present era a historic one. It is only by virtue of our understanding of history as the link between past and present that we are able to fathom for even a little while what goes on around us. Watching the dramatic changes that took place over the past few years, one could detect two dominant yet contradictory trends in the course of those changes. One is the fragmentation that has occurred in certain regions of the world, causing the emergence on the political map of new States on ethnic and cultural bases. The other trend is the inclination towards globalization, especially as the new technology and current communications revolution have narrowed the distances between various parts of the world. The amazing pace and speed of these changes call for new visions so that the present can be managed and the future’s dimensions charted. The desirable structure of the global world order should, in our view, rest on the following basic principles. First, the creation of a new vision for all aspects of development. Second, the development of an internationally agreed-upon mechanism for the maintenance of world peace and security. Third, cultural and civilizational interaction among nations. Comprehensive development is a cornerstone of world peace. As the Secretary-General has said in his report, development is a fundamental human right. It is the safety valve for peace. We understand that the concept of development means, basically, the achievement and sustaining of socio-economic progress. While some developing countries have been able to overcome some of the obstacles to their economic and social development, most of them are still caught in the vicious circle of economic problems. If we look back 25 years to consider a 1969 study entitled “A Study of the Capacity of the United Nations Development System”, we are likely to realize how optimistic that study was and, in contrast, how frustrating is the present condition of development in developing countries. Hence our conviction that the Secretary-General’s “An Agenda for Development” and his call for a new vision are an attempt to cast the development process, with all its human and material complications, in a new form that would meet the basic needs of developing countries. We would like in this connection to welcome the forthcoming World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen next March. We attach great importance to that summit, as it should have the potential to fulfil expectations in the field of social development in accordance with the provisions of Article 55 of the Charter. The significance of the summit is underlined by its programme of work, which addresses three important issues: the alleviation of poverty and eradication of need, the creation of employment opportunities and the promotion of social integration. Economic growth is a central element of comprehensive development. Although the world economy’s performance has improved, relatively speaking, its growth rate still falls short of the rates of the 1970s and 1980s. During 1993, the growth of the world economy has not exceeded one percent, nor is it expected to grow more than two-and-a-half percent during this year, according to economic projections. Economic problems that plague the world economy continue to have adverse effects on the economies of developing countries — in particular, on their development process. Those countries are beset by economic problems that are primarily external and are manifested mainly in indebtedness, the decline in the prices of commodities including oil, high interest rates, the decline in investments, fluctuation of the rate of exchange, scarcity of cash flows and international trade barriers. The world is now in need of an equitable international economic order that would enable all States, small and large, to reap the benefits of experience and great accomplishments in the economic field. In spite of economic disagreements between States, the economic situation will improve with firm political will and the 4 genuine desire on the part of all States to solve the economic problems of the world today. Encouraging signs of change appeared on the horizon early this year with the signing of the final document of the Uruguay Round in Marrakesh and the establishment of the World Trade Organization. We hope that the objectives of the said Organization will be translated into concrete reality for the benefit of all humanity. We believe that the terms and framework of the Uruguay Round should translate into access to markets and expansion of international trade to cover all States. In addition, the World Trade Organization should contribute effectively to the establishment of a non- discriminatory trade system. Meanwhile, we voice our concern that multilateral conventions concerning the liberalization of trade could be thwarted by the use of environmental issues as a means to raise protectionist taxes on international trade, with a view to reducing the use of certain commodities in world markets. The second fundamental principle for the world order, in our opinion, is the achievement of peace and security throughout the world. It should be based on three basic elements: the establishment of a feasible collective-security system, the peaceful settlement of regional and international disputes and disarmament. The history and experience of the United Nations in the field of international peace and security, which was overburdened by the feverish political polarization which prevailed during the cold war era, should serve as an incentive for the international community to build on the content of the Charter with a view to developing a globally acceptable and supportable mechanism that would be able to take firm action, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter VII of the Charter, with respect to threats to the peace, breaches of the peace and acts of aggression. It is possible, in this respect, to develop a pattern of cooperation between the Security Council and regional organizations in matters relating to the maintenance of international peace and security, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter. With regard to the peaceful settlement of disputes, the Secretary-General’s proposals, as set out in his report “An Agenda for Peace”, should be employed by the international community to maintain international peace and security and to develop the means whereby the capability of the United Nations to engage in preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping may be strengthened and made more efficacious. Preventive diplomacy is undoubtedly an effective instrument for preventing the outbreak and escalation of hostilities between States that would use or threaten to use force. Disarmament is an important requirement for the maintenance of world peace and security. The nightmares generated by stockpiles of weapons, especially nuclear weapons, continue to haunt humanity and to cause great anxiety throughout the world in view of the threat that such weapons pose to the human race and its security. In the wake of the bipolar era, and as an inevitable result of the cold war, the international community has turned its attention to the question of disarmament. There is an urgent and growing need to put an end to nuclear terror and to weapons of mass destruction. During the past few years many people, in both the developing and the developed countries, have demanded that an end be put to the race to acquire nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. Although an understanding to curb the increase in nuclear stockpiles has been reached as a result of certain concerted efforts, those stockpiles have yet to be adequately reduced. It is regrettable that the world has become capriciously involved in another dilemma of a different type. I refer to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and related technology through their acquisition by illegitimate means. Such arsenals and the phenomenon of proliferation must be eliminated if the international community is to ensure that international peace and security may be maintained. The third requirement for the establishment of a new world order is fulfilment of the need of peoples to come closer to each other, to be better acquainted with each other through cultural and social interaction with a view to reinforcing the noble human values and ideals ordained in monotheistic religions. The world is experiencing an important epochal transformation as communities shift their focus from individual States to regional groupings, such as the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf and the European Union. This phase is expected to lead to another, in which interaction and cohesion between States and regional groups, with their diverse cultures, is enhanced, with the ultimate goal of creating a world that is economically, culturally and intellectually interrelated. The profound apprehension, in terms of history and civilization, of man’s crisis in modern times leads to the conviction that enlightened dialogue sows the seeds of cooperation and association between the various nations 5 and races that yearn for security, tranquillity and stability, even if they are at variance in their cultures and in their outlook in respect of the human being, life and the universe. The polemics to which the final document of the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo have given rise are evidence of that variance. This reality underlines the need for dialogue, especially since we are at the threshold of the twenty-first century. The significance of the Cairo Conference was due to the crucial human-life-related issues that it addressed, such as the family and family planning, productive health, the relationship between the environment and inhabitants and other issues that concern countries, both rich and poor. Bahrain, which participated in that Conference, has endorsed such provisions of the Final Document as are consonant with the magnanimous Islamic law, our social values and our national legislation. The Middle East is one of the regions that have experienced particularly severe and bloody wars and hostilities. The longest of these was the Arab-Israeli conflict, which repeatedly threatened regional and international security. This fact underlines the need to establish the order of relations between the States of the region on a basis of co-equal security. I should like to reaffirm here our full support for the policy of freeing the Middle East region from nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction and, accordingly — bearing in mind its capability in this field — we call upon on Israel to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We are confident that the elimination of such destructive weapons will be of benefit not only in the area of peace and security but also in the areas of development as the resources saved as a result of reduced expenditure on armaments could be diverted to economic and social areas, thus enabling the peoples of the region to raise their living standards and secure a better life for future generations. Bahrain welcomed the signing of the Declaration of Principles between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel on 13 September 1993 and regarded it as the first step toward a comprehensive peaceful and just settlement in the Middle East. Since that historic event there have been other developments in the peace process. Among these was the signing, in Cairo on 4 May, of the self-rule Agreement between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel. This was followed by the Palestinian self-rule authority’s arrival in the Gaza Strip and Jericho. The Jordanian and Israeli sides also were able to sign the Washington Declaration on 25 July this year. We welcome these developments and hope that they will constitute a first positive move towards a comprehensive and just peace on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the other resolutions of international legality and the land-for- peace principle. We view these steps as a breakthrough in the attempts to achieve peace, and we hope that they are the beginning of the solution to the question of Palestine and of the process of enabling the Palestinian people to secure their legitimate national rights, including the right to their own independent State. It is our hope that, in the context of the peace process in the region, efforts on the other tracks will yield positive results so that the process may be concluded successfully. It is hoped that the negotiations will lead to complete Israeli withdrawal from all occupied Arab territories, including Holy Al-Quds, the Syrian Arab Golan and southern Lebanon. While we affirm our deep interest in the achievement of peace and development in the Middle East region, the State of Bahrain, as expressed by His Highness Sheikh Isa Bin Salman Al-Khalifa at the opening of the third session of the Consultative Council last week, “deems it incumbent upon it to stress that the ensuing peace should be comprehensive, the security mutual and the development common.” His Highness continued: “All peoples and countries of the region should reap the tangible results.” It is our conviction that the peace process should be comprehensive and integrated, for it would be futile to focus on achieving peace and development in one part of the region while leaving unresolved problems of others. Mutual security and vital interests should involve all parties that are called upon to take part in peacemaking and mutual development. In this context, all steps by all parties should be taken in a measured, balanced and equitable manner. My delegation wishes to express its support for the Syrian Arab Republic in insisting on its right to regain sovereignty over its territories in the Golan that have been 6 occupied since 1967. We also call on Israel to withdraw completely and unconditionally from southern Lebanon, pursuant to Security Council resolution 425 (1978). The past has taught us that inequitable peace is the shortest way to more crises. This must be realized by all those who are interested in the future well-being and stability of the region. Security, stability and political balance in sensitive regions are important. Territorial and boundary claims aimed at changing the present boundaries of States are matters of concern to my country. It is our conviction that the ideal means of dealing with such issues is to respect the existing and generally recognized borders between States, and to settle all differences that may rise by peaceful means acceptable to both sides. Accordingly, we stress that Iraq should implement Security Council resolutions relating to Kuwait and should officially recognize Kuwait’s sovereignty and release all Kuwaiti and other prisoners of war and detainees. As we call on Iraq to comply with the requirements of international legitimacy, we express at the same time our insistence on Iraq’s unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity and our sympathy with the brotherly people of Iraq, who are beset by difficult economic and living conditions. It is our hope that these conditions will change once the causes for them have been removed. It is regrettable that the dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran in relation to the question of sovereignty over the islands of Abu Moussa, Greater Tumb and Lesser Tumb has not abated, because it adversely affects the security and stability of the Gulf region. With that in mind, the State of Bahrain calls on the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond to the invitation by the United Arab Emirates to seek a settlement of the dispute over those islands through serious bilateral talks and through other peaceful means available for the settlement of disputes between States by mutual consent. The situation in Somalia is still precarious despite all the good offices and sincere efforts of the United Nations, the League of Arab States and the international community at large. While we voice our concern over the situation in that sister nation, we maintain that it is the Somali parties themselves that have the primary responsibility for the achievement of peace, the protection of Somali national interests and the rebuilding of the institutions of a unified Somalia. Bahrain also supports the recent League of Arab States resolution calling for the establishment of a ministerial committee to follow, along with the Secretary- General of the Arab League, the situation in Somalia and developments there, and to maintain appropriate contacts with a view to finding a suitable solution to the dangerous state of affairs and to achieving national reconciliation, in the interest of Somali unity and the well-being of the Somali people. The plight that has afflicted the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the last two and a half years persists with full intensity. This year, the Serb aggressors have continued relentlessly to commit appalling massacres, killings, torture and rape against unarmed Bosnians, in flagrant disregard of the rules of international humanitarian law that outlaw such practices. In pursuance of their policy of fait accompli through the seizure of more territory, the aggressors persist in preventing delivery of humanitarian relief supplies, violating the sanctity of and destroying places of worship and carrying out “ethnic cleansing”. The unabated aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a clear test of the effectiveness of the United Nations and its role in providing protection to populations. The Serb aggression against Sarajevo and Gorazde has shown the extent to which the Security Council is intentionally avoiding ensuring that its own resolutions are implemented against the Serbs. Although in all its relevant resolutions, including resolutions 900 (1994) and 913 (1994), the Council has affirmed the sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity and political independence of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, none of these resolutions have yet been enforced. The Security Council is now in a dilemma, since developments have shown the great difference between adopting resolutions and taking action to implement them. The adoption by Security Council of resolution 943 (1994) which relaxed the sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro was, in our view, tantamount to rewarding an aggressor whose credibility has not been demonstrated. We believe rather that the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the one that deserves reparations and should be rewarded for accepting the peace plan advanced recently by the five-party Contact Group — a plan rejected by the Serbs. Through its President, Mr. Alija Izetbegovic, the Republic of Bosnia Herzegovina also accepted the proposed postponement of the lifting of the arms embargo against it for another six months, a position that indeed warrants appreciation by the international community and all peace-loving nations. 7 With regard to the situation in Afghanistan, we are deeply concerned over the escalation of fighting between the parties to the dispute. We appeal to all Afghan factions to put the national interests of the Afghan people above all other considerations by putting an end to the fighting among them, pursuant to the provisions of the Mecca agreement of 1993. Among the appalling developments in Rwanda this year were the dreadful massive massacres committed in tribal strife within the nation. For our part, we support the efforts exerted by the international community with a view to repatriating the refugees and displaced persons and to putting an end to the tragedy resulting from the civil war. As far as the Cyprus question is concerned, we are interested in seeing the obstacles to settlement removed. We are deeply encouraged by the good offices of the Secretary-General and hope they will lead to a solution that may be satisfactory to both communities, especially now that both sides have declared that they accept, in principle, a set of confidence-building measures. In a few months, we shall see the dawn of 1995. In that year we will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. Although the Organization coexisted with political polarization during the cold-war era, the peoples and Governments of the world continued to be loyal to it for five decades. They are now counting on the Organization to contribute to the formulation of a new world order for the future. To that end, it behooves us as Member States to make available to the Organization the capability and the necessary means which would enable it to face all the challenges ahead. The Organization should develop itself into an effective instrument capable of coping with global changes. A number of important steps should therefore be taken, including above all gaining the support of the Security Council for the desired reforms. The growing number of Member States and the emergence in the international arena of new influential Powers justify such reforms. It should be noted in this respect that a growing number of Member States have begun in recent years to assume effective roles in the work of the Organization and to contribute to the maintenance of world peace and security. Proceeding from this, Bahrain looks forward to contributing to such efforts should it be elected to a term on the Security Council. The ability of the United Nations to prevent disputes and to maintain world peace depends greatly on the credibility of the principles of the Charter, which should, as a basic rule, guide the discussions and decisions of the United Nations, and particularly of the Security Council. If it is perceived that application is selective, credibility will suffer and the moral authority which is a basic feature of the Charter will be weakened. Notwithstanding certain failures, the many great successes the Organization has achieved in many parts of the world deepen our conviction that the United Nations an indispensable guarantee for a future in which our hopes for international peace and security will be fulfilled. As it approaches the end of the twentieth century, mankind longs for a world in which international relations will be governed by the principles of equality, justice and the renunciation of the use or threat of force. Mankind longs for stability and peace based on solid foundations of understanding, good-neighbourliness and non- interference in internal affairs as a means of consolidating the ideals of justice, security and peace amongst all nations. It is my pleasure, Sir, to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We are certain that your experience and your 19 diplomatic skill will lead to a very positive outcome for the work of this session. May I at the same time convey to the Secretary- General our profound appreciation of his tireless efforts to adapt the United Nations to the increasingly complex requirements of a changing world. The structure of the international system, at the end of this century, is experiencing radical changes, particularly the end of the post-war bipolarity, the fall of the Iron Curtain and the end of the cold war. Many new peoples have gained their right to self-determination and democratic development, long repressed by totalitarian regimes. Some succeeded in accomplishing this by peaceful means; others have had to go through tragedies and major conflicts, such as those in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the territory of the former Yugoslavia and the Trans-Dnestr, the Caucasus and Central Asia, former territories of the Soviet Union. Today they are all sources of concern to the international community because of their implications for regional and international peace and security. The revolutions in Central Europe, whose essential purpose was the restoration of freedom and dignity to the people in that part of the world and their return to traditional democratic values, with respect for fundamental human rights and political pluralism, have inter alia, made more politically homogeneous a part of the continent long marked by ideological and political barriers and confrontation between opposing military blocs. Europe is undergoing an apparently contradictory evolution. On the one hand, there is a tendency towards the fragmentation of States and a reaffirmation of the national identities and personalities of the central part of the continent and the former Soviet territories. On the other hand, in the West there is a process of integration which is tending to draw in new European States. Other continents are also undergoing historically important changes. The Middle East, thanks to the actions of a number of politicians who were bold enough to take the great responsibility of rising out of the inertia there, and running the risks of peace, has entered a process of historic reconciliation which once seemed impossible. In Latin America, as well as in Asia and the Pacific, dynamic economic zones have been created, thus destroying false assumptions about the inevitability of underdevelopment in two-thirds of the world. In Africa, the abolition of the policy of apartheid, the reorganization of the Republic of South Africa on democratic lines and the defeat of reactionary racial concepts open up new prospects for cooperation and development for the entire continent. The dynamics of the world have changed. This creates many questions for the international community, Governments, politicians and political forces. So far the answers have been few and inadequate. But life does not wait. States and people have concrete needs as well as hopes and ideals. Their natural tendency is to act in order to fulfil them, whether or not there exists an organized international framework for harmonizing divergent interests. This is where international organizations and the United Nations in particular have a role to play. In the effort to decode and evaluate the significance of the highly dynamic and complex developments in the international political arena, several scenarios have appeared in which these developments are viewed as preludes to a new era of confrontation between civilizations. But freeing international relations from ideology does not and must not necessarily lead to confrontation between civilizations. By definition, confrontation is alien to civilization. Civilization is characterized, rather, by tolerance and open-mindedness. Of course, this does not exclude competition between civilizations, between the values they promote, between their capacities to guarantee the free enjoyment of basic human rights and the development of initiative and the human personality. But to establish the conditions of such coexistence between civilizations a restructuring of international relations is required if an optimal framework for the affirmation and development of each people’s individuality, as well as prosperity, are to be ensured. From this perspective, the role of the United Nations is essential. Next year we will be celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War and, at the same time, the establishment of the United Nations. Like other States in the region, Romania, against its will, was dragged into a conflict that claimed millions of victims and wrought enormous destruction. However, through the determination of all its internal democratic forces - the embodiment of our nation’s aspirations - Romania managed to break away from Hitler’s war 20 machine and join the coalition of the united nations on 23 August 1944. The great human, material and logistical efforts made by the Romanian people between 23 August 1944 and the final victory of the united nations forces are engraved in the Golden Book of our national history. Even though the status of co-belligerent was not granted to Romania, no one has ever contested the strategic value and political importance of these sacrifices. We support proposals that in 1995 - the year which marks half a century since the end of the war - the international community should concentrate its efforts on building a climate of peace and giving a decisive impetus to the peaceful settlement of conflicts existing in various regions of the world, thus making next year a true international year of peace. In this framework, we believe that there is a need to rethink the entire machinery and to adapt the structures of the United Nations to contemporary requirements. Indeed, this rethinking process has already started, and this is to be welcomed. The Secretary-General’s 'Agenda for Peace' offers excellent material for reflection and action. In this context, we support the proposals, in our view justified, aimed at reviewing the composition of the Security Council in order to adapt it to today’s realities and ensure a better representation of the great geographical regions. In our view, such a limited increase in membership would have to include Germany and Japan among the permanent members of that the Council, taking into account their potential, role and contribution to the activities of the Organization. Certainly, this should not mean the establishment of a 'condominium' of the permanent members over the rest of the world. Rather, we see it as a deeper commitment to their responsibility for maintaining international peace and security, which is the main task of the Security Council. In this way, a balance could be achieved between the Council and the General Assembly and the other main bodies within a context of democratic decision-making procedures that would allow all countries to act on a democratic and equal basis in protecting their legitimate interests. Any rethinking of the structures of the United Nations must take into account the phenomenon of the globalization of international problems, one of the features of today’s world. Objective factors of development are increasing the interdependence of States and regions of the world. In one way or another, we are all affected by the tragedies that have unfolded in, for example, the former Yugoslavia, the Trans-Dnestr region, the Caucasus, Rwanda and Haiti. The world economy shows clear trends towards integration on a global scale, a development which affects the interests of all States. The ecological equilibrium of the planet is becoming of vital interest to all regions and summons all States to bear their share of responsibility. All these phenomena, typical of the late twentieth century, require us to develop an awareness of our planet as a veritable spaceship if our Governments’ actions at the international level are to be both effective and convergent. The United Nations system is best placed to encourage and sustain the development of such an awareness. Today, there is no greater threat to international peace and security and no greater source of tension and conflict among nations than the widening gap between rich and poor States. The corrections already attempted by the international community, including the Decades for Development and various assistance programmes, have not managed to put a halt to these negative trends. This poses a grave threat to the global balance, particularly through the inevitable phenomenon of massive population migration, which is impossible to control, from the underdeveloped areas of the planet to much smaller zones of prosperity in Europe and North America. It is in mankind’s general interest to prevent such a prospect and to preserve its diversity. This can be achieved solely through a determined and enlightened effort on the part of the international community to eradicate underdevelopment and promote the economic growth of the developing countries, thus turning them into the truly equal partners of the developed countries, as is rightly emphasized in the Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development. The United Nations system is the most appropriate framework for launching on a global scale a partnership for development, the necessity of which is growing more apparent by the day. Clearly, such a development must first address the needs and aspirations to progress of the developing countries. At the same time, it should coincide with the interests of the developed countries, which are facing many difficulties today - not on the same scale, of course - by offering them new opportunities to overcome recession and chronic unemployment. The experience of the developed countries themselves demonstrates that economic development inherently leads to an increase in the absorption capacity of national markets and in the degree of economic interaction. 21 From this viewpoint the European continent is in a position to engage in an experiment that has great relevance for the world economy. Without coordinated action by European States and institutions, the ideological and political barriers characteristic of the period when Europe was divided into opposing military blocs may well be replaced by a new iron curtain, economic in nature, between developed countries and those in transition, because of the gaps between them. Such risks could be eliminated by the ever-growing trend towards integration at the continental level; the construction of a system of economic relations based on equality between the countries of the East and West on the continent, which will help to promote reforms in the Central and Eastern European countries; and the realization of the necessary standards of integration. Those developments could also make a vital contribution to the achievement, in a similar manner, of a partnership for development. In this connection, international efforts to promote the economic growth of a particular area must not be viewed in terms of competition or rivalry with other areas. Any economic progress in an area that is lagging represents a gain for other areas. In this context, the United Nations system can play a moderating and balancing role in managing, as rationally and effectively as possible, a partnership for development at the global level. I have referred to some of the major challenges contemporary international developments present to the international community, and to the United Nations in particular, developments with regard to which the latter is particularly called upon to assume the role of organizing cooperation between States to harmonize and safeguard their common interests. As a democratic State aware of its responsibilities to its people as well as to international peace, security and cooperation, Romania intends to be part of the universal effort to face these challenges. My country’s principal contribution to this joint effort consists of consolidating the democratic process and domestic stability. Over the nearly five years since the Revolution of December 1989, the country’s face has radically changed. A new Constitution, modern and democratic in nature, has come into force; the totalitarian regime has been abolished and the foundations of a State of law have been laid; the free exercise of fundamental human rights, including the rights of individuals belonging to national minorities, is guaranteed. On that basis, we have created step by step an ever greater degree of domestic stability, which today makes Romania a stabilizing factor in the region. This is an especially remarkable achievement in that it was obtained under difficult international conditions - in particular, the situations of conflict in our immediate neighbourhood and above all the extremely heavy burden which the embargo against Yugoslavia has imposed upon the Romanian economy, with no compensation whatsoever. To the extent that it can, Romania participates in the efforts of the international community to resolve regional conflicts, primarily those in our own geographical area. We are ready to assume all our responsibilities and make our contribution to peacefully settling those conflicts and ensuring security and calm in a region traumatized by military confrontations and with interests at stake that are not necessarily the same as those of the parties engaged in combat. In that spirit Romania has fully associated itself with the Partnership for Peace offered by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to the countries of Central Europe and of the former Soviet Union. We believe this new form of interconnection with an institution that constituted a guarantee for the maintenance of peace throughout the European continent will give a better opportunity for peace in Europe and, implicitly, for international peace and security. Similarly, in a broader context, Romania supports the process of integration at the continental level. It is endeavouring to contribute to this by pursuing a policy of good-neighbourliness and by implementing regional cooperation projects, particularly in the area of Central Europe, the Black Sea and the Danube basin, all of which should accelerate the integration of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe into the structures of the European Union, NATO, the Western European Union and the Council of Europe. The priority Romania attaches to the European and Euro-Atlantic options, resulting from its history and from geopolitical factors, does not exclude traditional relationships established over the years with countries and areas outside the European continent. On the contrary, as the country’s domestic political and social life has become more stable and as its economy has begun to improve, those relations have been renewed and expanded. They are certainly valuable at the bilateral level, but they are also valuable multilaterally, since they strengthen international confidence and trust and develop a global awareness of the fact that the world is shrinking all the time, in terms of both time and space, and that 22 each State shares responsibility for the tranquillity, peace and prosperity of other States. The extremely complex situations in various parts of the world and the contradictory currents that exist, with all their attendant risks and uncertainties for overall peace and security, demand a democratic vision of the new international order, which must be built, and abandonment of prejudices in relations between States inherited from the cold-war period. But that is not all. I believe that today we need a vision of the management of international relations in which realism and pragmatism predominate. Unfortunately, the after-effects of ideological outlooks still linger in political thinking, distancing us from reality and inevitably influencing policy making. In certain conditions, this can have extremely serious consequences for States and peoples by marginalizing them or even by isolating them from international cooperation. In the medium and long term, such political decisions can only have harmful consequences for international peace and security. Because of its vocation and its Charter principles, the United Nations is the ideal forum for determining an approach to international problems free from stereotypes and prejudices. To the extent that the United Nations succeeds, all Member States stand to gain - each individually and the international community as a whole. Romania is prepared to participate in this joint effort to build a world of international peace and cooperation, free from conflicts and prejudices. Our world is moving into a new era which has not yet taken a permanent shape. This process of change entails profound transformations, some of which promote development, the rule of law, respect for human rights and care for the environment, while others present a serious threat to life and to the world itself. During this process cultural, social and political principles which once seemed to be of eternal value are superseded by new ones. In many parts of the world instability reigns, causing tragedy and chaos. In these challenging times, Sir, your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its forty- ninth session merits compliments. Your election to this high office is a demonstration of the Member States’ confidence in you. The Republic of Suriname is convinced that under Your Excellency’s guidance our deliberations during this important year will produce tangible results. We pay tribute to Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana for the excellent way in which he presided at the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. The vital, extraordinary and excellent manner in which Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali fulfils his mission as Secretary-General of the United Nations in these critical times of intensified disputes, war and violence earns our gratitude, admiration and respect. We wish to thank him most heartily and, at the same time, congratulate him on his important role in shaping the future of the international system. Events during recent years have confronted the international community with the reality that the demise of the confrontational clash of ideologies did not automatically usher in the stability and prosperity to which we all aspire. Immense problems persist in the political, social and economic spheres and at the national, regional and international levels. We are witnessing the eruption, the continuation and the spreading of severe national and ethnic rivalries, as in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Rwanda. These conflicts and disputes have given rise to the emergence of a large number of displaced persons, who are subjected to the worst kind of harassment, starvation and deprivation. These manifestations are compounded by practices that once again leave a shameful blot on our civilization. The international community cannot close its eyes to these practices or fail to act in the face of such horrifying and unacceptable situations. Such crises, regardless of the various causes and motives from which they may ensue, tend to have in common the fact that masses of innocent women, children and elderly people pay the price and bear the brunt of conflicts and wars. The real concern is not only the number of victims claimed or the scale of the destruction that may ensue but also the possibility that the seeds of those conflicts will spread, both in the developed and in the developing countries, in the absence of the attention of a world order capable of containing and addressing their causes. 5 It is legitimate for the international community to regard these problems as a shared burden and to strive for their peaceful and prompt solution on the basis of practical cooperation. We should in the short term resort to such mechanisms as are deemed practical to come to the immediate rescue of those who are suffering. Furthermore, we should increase our efforts to eliminate the deeprooted causes of the unresolved national conflicts, to ensure the civil and human rights of ethnic minorities and to promote peaceful coexistence through respect for each other’s race, colour, ethnicity, religion and sex. If we fail to do so, the suffering will be prolonged and will threaten regional and international peace and security. As we discuss the issues now confronting our world, we cannot but refer to the importance of building a new reality that aims at the full development of the people’s potential through the establishment of peace, the building of democracy and the shaping of sound economies. We know that it is a difficult process to establish democracy, dependable democratic institutions and a democratic culture. Notwithstanding the commitment or vigour with which our Governments strive to achieve this objective, the process is bound to be slow and full of complications. Suriname is convinced, however, that we must endeavour to reach this goal, led by the perception that the core of democracy, as we see it, is not merely adherence to an ideal system but one of the most important prerequisites for a stable, united and integrated society that can swiftly settle its differences, realize its aspirations and enjoy and preserve its cultural, political and socio-economic achievements. The commitment of Suriname to the cause of democracy is strengthened by the distressing experience of the rule of dictatorship under which its people had to live some years ago. There are indeed tremendous efforts involved in bringing a democratic system back on track. Our involvement in the building of a new national political reality establishes a link between us and the regional process of political renewal, in which Governments of the region are faced with the complex task of restoring and safeguarding democracy. Indeed, in Latin America and the Caribbean, democracy has suffered some severe setbacks. The problems of Haiti are of particular concern to us. The violent and illegal interruption of the democratic process in this country has led to continued violations of human rights, to increased poverty and to suffering for the Haitian people, as well as to the flight of thousands from their home country. It is against this background that my Government has granted a request to provide a temporary safe haven for Haitian refugees and has pledged its support to the multinational force. Furthermore, my Government decided to make members of the national army and the police force available to the United Nations mission in Haiti, which, within the framework of the implementation of Security Council resolution 940 (1994), will become operational simultaneously with the restoration of the democratic Government under the leadership of President Jean- Bertrand Aristide. My Government’s decision to support and participate in the United Nations mission in Haiti was inspired by its conception of regional and international responsibility to contribute to the safeguarding of constitutional democracy in the region. We believe that our hemisphere is in need of permanent mechanisms to guarantee swift and direct action when democracy is threatened - for example, by the unconstitutional take-over of Governments. The significant efforts made by the United Nations and the Organization of American States, including the various resolutions adopted, the missions sent to Haiti and the threat of an immediate military intervention, have finally convinced the military leadership to step down not later than 15 October. In a general sense, we are hopeful that current developments in Haiti, which are the result of initiatives taken within the framework of the United Nations, will lead to a peaceful resolution of the crisis. Suriname wishes to emphasize that all efforts to restore democracy in Haiti will appear to have been in vain if the rich countries do not forthwith pool financial resources in a fund for the reconstruction and development of Haiti. The developments in South Africa which led to the demise of the abhorrent regime of apartheid and to the establishment of a democratic and non-racist South Africa have led to the conviction that in the end the rightful struggle of people for justice, equality and majority rule will meet with success. Indeed, the birth of the new South Africa last April has demonstrated that structures imposed by force cannot survive the determination of those who seek justice. 6 The people and Government of the Republic of Suriname wish to congratulate the people of South Africa and their leaders, especially President Nelson Mandela, on this success, which will have a positive impact on the world community. We are all greatly indebted to the Special Committee against Apartheid, which for 32 years played a vital role in global efforts to end apartheid. My country is confident that the new Government in South Africa will cope well with the new challenges it faces. We hope that the international community will not wait to assist the new Government in bringing about the necessary economic and social changes to build a future of security, stability and prosperity for the South African people. The many positive political changes and international breakthroughs resulting from the end of the cold-war era have had a profound influence on the problem of the Middle East, especially the Palestine issue. The conflict has taken a positive turn in line with those changes. My Government wishes to record its satisfaction over the historic agreement signed between Israel and Jordan, which followed the accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization in September 1993. The historic opportunity to achieve lasting peace has now materialized and the international community must guarantee that this important momentum is not lost. The statistics of the United Nations Development Programme, the World Bank and the United Nations give rise to only one conclusion: that we live in a world beset by inequality, gross disparity and imbalance in the distribution of wealth and resources, and urgent solutions for the economic situation of developing countries are required. The problem of economic imbalance is not limited to a few countries or to one region. It is a global issue - just as peace and democracy are global issues - and for that reason this forum must deal with it as a matter of priority. No longer is it the nuclear nightmare that frightens us most: rather, it is the scourge of poverty, which continues to erode the foundations of our civilization. In Suriname, as elsewhere in Latin America, the Caribbean and other regions, bold but necessary reforms have been set in motion to eliminate obstacles to development and economic competitiveness in order to adapt to new international realities. In this context, my country is endeavouring to rehabilitate and reconstruct the beleaguered economy of our nation on a sound and solid foundation. Within the framework of these economic reforms we consider the development of human resources to be a priority issue. We consider it to be extremely important to improve the living conditions and basic health and nutrition of our people. We are committed to these goals because we believe that every human being has the ultimate right to development. The austerity measures which were subscribed to by my Government have not been easy to implement because of the weakness of the economy and the hardships and suffering they impose on our people. Notwithstanding the progress made so far, it is obvious that such an undertaking calls for the availability of vast resources, which cannot be mobilized at the national level only. We therefore have called on the international community to provide assistance to complement our domestic efforts. In particular, we have called on our historical partner to fulfil the agreements reached in this context and to support us in our attempts to create prosperity for our people. We must add to this that it is our obligation to see to it that our need for aid does not lead to the recolonization of our country. My Government shares the international community’s concern for the fragile ecosystem in our world, which must be protected. Like other developing countries, Suriname is confronted with the challenge to meet its present development needs and simultaneously safeguard the environment and natural resources for generations to come. In trying to establish a sound balance between development and environment my Government has committed itself to taking all the measures necessary to protect and preserve the environment, in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the Rio de Janeiro Conference, and has incorporated the concept of sustainable development in its national development programmes. If the international community does not have the political will to deal effectively with the crises occurring in so many economies, the world will continue to lack stability and will remain vulnerable to upheavals and setbacks that could undermine the foundations of the future. 7 In the context of the recently held International Conference on Population and Development and the forthcoming Fourth World Conference on Women, a World Summit for Social Development is therefore a timely initiative as it will provide an opportunity to embark on an in-depth analysis of human development in all its aspects. These international meetings should afford all of us the opportunity to address in an integrated manner the issues of poverty, unemployment and social integration. In Latin America and the Caribbean various encouraging initiatives have been taken to deal effectively with the imperatives of economic and social development and to enhance the capability of the countries of the region to respond to the pressing challenges ahead. Joint efforts aimed at the strengthening of regional integration and cooperation have been made. On 24 July 1994 in Cartagena, Colombia, we stood at the cradle of the Association of Caribbean States, an association which brings together member States of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), the countries of Central America, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Suriname, Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela. This is indeed proof of the growing awareness among the leadership in the region that closer economic and political relations are tools to enhance our capacity to bring prosperity to our peoples. By joining the Association of Caribbean States, Suriname has demonstrated that it is part of the region and wants to participate in the shaping of its future. Suriname has also explored the possibility of joining CARICOM as a full member since it believes that by joining Suriname will both enhance its own capacity to intensify regional cooperation and bring to the Caribbean Community its cultural richness and its economic opportunities. Our hemisphere, which includes both developed and developing countries, is being challenged to take the opportunity provided by global changes to develop initiatives for the cultivation of international relations conducive to prosperity for all on the basis of sustainable development, social reform and equity. In the light of these aims, my country welcomes the proposed Summit for the Americas, to be held in December 1994, at which representatives of countries of the Western hemisphere will come together to address these issues and to act as catalysts for the changes needed in the development patterns of both the countries of the North and those of the South in order for them to reach their common goals. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea has on many occasions been described as one of the most important multilateral legal instruments of our century. My Government participated actively in its preparation, and I take great pleasure in congratulating the world community on the coming into force of this Convention on 16 November 1994. On behalf of my Government, I also wish to express my satisfaction with the agreement that has been reached with regard to the mining of minerals in the deep sea-bed, as contemplated in the aforementioned Convention. All Members of the United Nations pledge their support for the principles and initiatives of the United Nations. At the same time, the Member States are keeping an eye both on the kind of support and on the level of assistance they can generate from this Organization. Suriname does so. For Suriname, many aid programmes from the specialized agencies and other United Nations bodies have been hampered by the implementation of one of the main criteria for assistance. Suriname was counted among the net contributors of the United Nations Development Programme because our national per capita income was calculated to be higher than $3,000. This figure is wrong because of an unrealistic official exchange rate. Now that the official exchange rate has moved to a realistic level, which is more than 100 times the former rate, Suriname is looking forward to a readjustment of its status and subsequently to a reclassification, and also to the aid programme that will follow this transformation. We are involved in an evolutionary process, with both the world and the United Nations adjusting to new demands with regard to peace, security and sustainable development. It is clear that a new international order based on the democratic participation of all States calls for a restructuring and strengthening of the United Nations in response to its new responsibilities. Indeed, the role of the United Nations has taken on more relevance than ever before, and it is most urgent for the international community to restructure this Organization in order to enable it to play the important role for which it was created. The celebration in 1995 of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations will be a good occasion on which to 8 reflect on the new role of the Organization and the attainment of that objective, provided that the relations between the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretary-General are reorganized. My Government is committed to contributing to the successful outcome of this endeavour. At the outset, let me congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I wish you every success and pledge you the full support of my delegation. I also wish to commend your predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, for the excellent and able manner in which he conducted the work of the forty-eighth session. Under his wise guidance, the Member States of the United Nations, during the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, engaged in a creative and constructive dialogue on a question likely to have a great impact on the future work and credibility of the United Nations, that of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council. The report of the Working Group, which was adopted on 14 September by the General Assembly, makes it clear that these discussions have had a positive beginning and that much more work in a constructive and open-minded spirit remains to be done in order to find a solution acceptable to all Member States. Even though detailed discussion of this sensitive issue must be continued by the Working Group, I should like to reiterate at this juncture that the Government of Liechtenstein attaches the utmost importance to maintaining the efficiency and effectiveness of the work of the Security Council, and that at the same time it holds the view that the discussions of the Working Group should cover not only the enlargement of the Council, but also, and to no less an extent, its working methods. The second session of the Preparatory Committee for the World Summit for Social Development, which will take place in Copenhagen in March 1995, concluded its work just three weeks ago. The Liechtenstein Government is encouraged by the results of this session, which prove that the preparatory process is on the right track, and we are confident that the consultations to be held by Ambassador Somavía during the last week of October will lay a solid basis for the work of the third session and bring Member States closer to achieving the important goal of a final document which can be adopted by consensus. The World Summit for Social Development can be a crucial event for the future of mankind, and we must not miss this opportunity to promote social progress and better standards of living in greater freedom, which is one of the most noble goals of this Organization. This gathering, as the draft final document acknowledges, is closely interlinked with other important conferences, notably the International Conference on Population and Development, which was successfully concluded on 13 September in Cairo, and the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing in September 1995. Among other subjects under consideration by the General Assembly, the draft final document also mentions the International Year of the Family, which we are still celebrating. I wish to underline that, in the view of the Liechtenstein Government, a concise summary and analysis of the activities undertaken within the framework of the International Year of the Family, at both the national and the regional levels, can make a substantive contribution to the successful outcome of the two United Nations world conferences in 1995, and at the same time can help achieve the goal of making the International Year of the Family not an isolated event, but, rather, one which will have a continuing and long-term impact on national policies as well as on regional and international cooperation. Liechtenstein has undertaken manifold activities in order to celebrate the International Year; amongst other things, it dedicated the commemorative activities for its National Day on 15 August to the objectives of the International Year. The Government of Liechtenstein therefore wholeheartedly welcomes the decision of the General Assembly, taken in its resolution 47/237 of September 1993, to hold an international conference on the family, which will take place here in New York on 18 October, and hopes to be in a position to contribute to giving the International Year a lasting impact. In our view, preventive diplomacy, as outlined in 'An Agenda for Peace', could and should be used more often and more efficiently. We commend the activities of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). Especially since the 1990 Summit meeting in Paris, when the leaders of 36 States signed and committed themselves to the Charter of Paris for a New Europe, the CSCE has shown that it can play a most useful role in 8 monitoring specific situations and in initiating negotiation processes. We are of the opinion that improved coordination of the activities of the Conference and those of the United Nations can achieve very fruitful results. The international political environment has changed. Having been accorded its rightful place in the promotion and maintenance of international peace and security, the United Nations now has as one of its central tasks that of playing a more active role than ever before in conflict resolution. Unfortunately it must be stated again this year that the sheer number and magnitude of the conflicts surpass the abilities of this Organization. There is no region in the world without a conflict of some sort; regional conflicts have become a major threat to international peace and security. We are aware that peace-keeping must be and will remain one of the Organization’s most important instruments for maintaining peace and security in the world, but peace-keeping operations have to be provided with clear mandates and be set within a reasonable and realistic time- frame. Since Liechtenstein became a member of the United Nations in 1990 the expenses for peace-keeping operations have increased dramatically. We are aware that the changing global situation has made an increase of peace-keeping activities unavoidable, but it should also be noted that these costs increasingly constitute a heavy burden for national budgets. In this connection, we should note that we welcome the creation of the post of an Under-Secretary-General for Internal Oversight Services and the appointment of Mr. Karl Theodor Paschke to this post. We hope that this important step will lead to improved financial management of the United Nations and at the same time to timely and full payment of assessed contributions by all Member States, both into the regular budget and for peace-keeping actions. The Liechtenstein Government attaches the utmost importance to the promotion and protection of human rights and I wish to emphasize that the Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna in June 1993 can, if it is followed by full implementation of its provisions, constitute a milestone in the history of the United Nations. The General Assembly at its forty-eighth session took a first and very important step by adopting the mandate for the High Commissioner for Human Rights, a post which had been under discussion for a very long time. I wish to thank Ambassador Ayala Lasso for all the efforts he has undertaken so far in fulfilling his very difficult task and to assure him of our full support. However, more and determined action by the General Assembly is needed, including the allocation of an increased percentage of the overall budget of the United Nations to the Centre for Human Rights in order to enable it to carry out its tasks even more efficiently. The United Nations is approaching its fiftieth anniversary and preparing to commemorate that event in a dignified manner. I should like to thank Under-Secretary-General Gillian Sorensen for her untiring efforts with regard to the commemorative activities of the Organization. The jubilee is also a good opportunity to bring the purposes and the work of the United Nations closer to the individuals, the people, who are the central subject of the Organization’s endeavours. Liechtenstein wishes to contribute to achieving this goal and has therefore scheduled several activities, information on which will be provided in due course. I should like, however, to avail myself of this opportunity to refer briefly to a project which is of particular importance to us and, we believe, of direct relevance for the United Nations. In one of Liechtenstein’s first contributions to these general debates after becoming a Member of the United Nations, His Serene Highness Prince Hans Adam II, Ruling Prince and Head of State of Liechtenstein, introduced at the forty-sixth session of the Assembly an initiative on certain aspects of self-determination, and he elaborated on it at later sessions, including the forty-eighth. Self-determination has been of very great importance in the history of the United Nations and is, of course, enshrined as a principle in its Charter. As representatives of Liechtenstein have outlined on several occasions, our initiative seeks to open up for discussion by the international community certain aspects of the right of self-determination and to encourage a more flexible and practical implementation of that right. Last year, at the request of the delegation of Liechtenstein, a new sub-item was included in the agenda of the General Assembly, entitled 'Effective realization of the right to self-determination through autonomy' . We had a very interesting debate in the Third Committee, at the close of which Member States, while agreeing to consider the matter further at a later stage, preferred not to do so during this present, forty-ninth, session of the General Assembly. Reactions and comments made during and surrounding the debate by a large number of countries, as well as developments on the international scene, have confirmed our view that this initiative is timely and potentially valuable for the international 9 community. We will therefore be pursuing it as constructively as possible. It seems to us that at this stage it would be most appropriate, and most likely to lead to fruitful results, for this subject to be developed further within an academic, rather than a political, framework. His Serene Highness Prince Hans Adam II has therefore, as one element of Liechtenstein’s contribution to the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary, given a grant to Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs to establish a research programme on self-determination to be conducted under the auspices of the Woodrow Wilson School’s Center of International Studies. Two conferences are to be organized in March and June 1995 within the framework of this research programme. They will be open for participation to all Member States of the United Nations, and I wish to extend an invitation to all States to continue working together with us to make further progress on this crucially important question. International law is the best guarantee of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms as well as of international peace and security. In the case of Liechtenstein, it is also the only guarantee. I therefore wish to reaffirm our commitment to cooperate with all States in further strengthening international law in order to achieve a secure, a peaceful and a prosperous future for the generations to come. Mr. President, please allow me at the outset to congratulate you on your assumption of the Presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. Your unanimous election to this high office attests to the respect accorded by the international community to your friendly country, Côte d’Ivoire. We are confident, in view of your qualifications credentials and diplomatic skills, that you will steer the work of this session to a successful conclusion which will further the noble causes and principles of the United Nations, which are aimed at bringing peace and prosperity to the world. I would like to assure you of my delegation’s cooperation with your endeavours to achieve this common goal. I should like also to take this opportunity to express our appreciation to His Excellency Samuel R. Insanally, the Permanent Representative of the friendly country of Guyana, for the exemplary manner in which he presided over the work of the previous session of the General Assembly. Furthermore, on behalf of the Government of the Sultanate of Oman, I should like to pay special tribute to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedicated and continued efforts aimed at resolving complicated conflicts by peaceful means. This forty-ninth session is being held amid increasing prospects for and optimism about the creation of a world in which atmosphere of peace, interdependence and peaceful settlement of disputes will prevail. Our Arab region is currently witnessing radical and important changes where hatred and animosities between the Arabs and Israel are slowly vanishing and giving place to a new climate of understanding, dialogue and coexistence. We are totally convinced that there is no alternative means by which the Arabs and Israel may resolve their differences other than negotiation. While some promising and positive results have been achieved, we are still at the beginning of a long process and we have a long way to go towards resolving deep-seated differences. We therefore appeal to the international community to continue to lend its support to the efforts aimed at bringing peace and security to the region. In South Africa, my country has participated with many other countries of the world in the inauguration ceremony of President Nelson Mandela. That historic event could not have taken place were it not for the courageous policies of both President Mandela and Vice President de Klerk in their approach to power-sharing based on equality. Thanks to the positive steps taken and the wise policies pursued by President Mandela in forming a National Coalition government that embraces various political parties, South Africa has been able to resume its rightful place in this Assembly, and can now play its natural role in regional and international forums. In Mozambique, the peace process is making significant progress. Moreover, we are witnessing an increasing normalization of relations amongst Asian 16 countries. We also witness more integration and interdependence in the economic relations in Europe and in North America. And last but not least, we note with satisfaction the peaceful resolution of conflicts in Latin America and the unprecedented tendency of its peoples to opt for peace, development, and social and economic betterment in their countries. We have to cover a lot of ground before we achieve the building of the world envisaged by the Charter of this Organization. The prevailing climate of concord affords us an opportunity to enable this Organization to face up to the challenges and unresolved problems and to address such problems in the light of the new realities. My country views with satisfaction the steps that have been achieved so far on the Palestinian-lsraeli track. We have always called for a just, lasting and peaceful solution to the situation between the Arabs and Israel through direct negotiations. Therefore, my country has welcomed the outcome of the Palestinian-lsraeli negotiations which culminated in the signing of the Cairo Agreement on the implementation of self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho. This Agreement is now being implemented, the Palestinian Authority is now a concrete reality and is exercising its different functions in such areas as education, health, taxation, tourism and social affairs. There are other functions stipulated in the Agreement which, we hope, will be exercised at the earliest possible time, by the Palestinian Authority. The expansion of the competence of the Palestinian Authority to other Palestinian areas in the West Bank will undoubtedly strengthen the peace process and contribute positively to security and stability in the area. Such significant steps could never have been achieved had not the Palestinian Liberation Organization honoured its obligations under the Declaration of Principles signed in Washington and under the Cairo Agreement. In order to achieve peace and enable the Palestinian people to take advantage and reap the benefits of the vigorous efforts exerted in this context, the international community should extend the necessary assistance to the Palestinian Authority so that it may be able to discharge its many responsibilities and rebuild the infrastructure, which has been severely damaged. Support for the Authority will not only serve the cause of security and stability in the self-rule areas alone but in the region of the Middle East in its entirety. The desired just and lasting peace will prevail only through complete withdrawal by Israel from the entirety of the occupied Arab territories, in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), and in application of the land-for-peace principle. My country has followed with interest another significant step in the peace process, namely that on the Jordan-lsraeli track, which was highlighted by the signing by His Majesty King Hussein of Jordan and the Israeli Prime Minister of a declaration that ends the state of war between the two countries and masks the movement towards the establishment of a comprehensive peace. My country has supported these positive and important steps. Mindful of the fact that comprehensive peace is an aspiration of the present and future generations, we emphasize the critical importance of a complete Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Jordanian territories. We believe that it is crucial for Israel to demonstrate the necessary flexibility to reach an agreement on the question of water in order for both countries to move forward towards the long-awaited lasting peace. We look forward to similar positive and important steps in the peace process on both the Syrian-Israeli and Lebanese-Israeli tracks. We are confident that the co- sponsors of the Middle East peace process as well as the parties concerned are fully aware of the fact that unless significant and substantive progress is made on those two tracks, the peace process will remain incomplete and will make the region’s peoples prey to suspicions, mistrust and instability. Therefore, efforts must be made in the coming phase, to achieve concrete progress in this direction. Israel must declare its readiness to withdraw completely from the Syrian Golan Heights and from the Lebanese territories it now occupies. We are confident that if Israel were to take such an undoubtedly positive step in the peace process, the peoples of the Middle East would be able to work together towards the consolidation of peace and the promotion of economic development on a large scale in the region. Mindful of the need to support the peace process and given the awareness that national and regional security are inseparable, the Sultanate of Oman has actively participated in the meetings of the five working groups emanating from the multilateral negotiations. Although the latter are no substitute for bilateral negotiations, they constitute a significant tributary that has the potential of giving a rather significant boost to the process in the direction of the desired just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. 17 Given the pivotal importance of water resources for the future security and peace of the Middle East, the Sultanate of Oman accords a very high priority to the discovery and development of new water resources side by side with the promotion of sea-water desalination technology in order to make such technology more cost effective. Within the framework of multilateral negotiations in the Middle East, my country hosted the fifth meeting of the Working Group on Water Resources held from 17 to 20 April 1994. The meeting resulted, inter alia, in the endorsement of the Omani proposal to establish in Muscat, the Omani capital, a regional centre for the research aimed at the development of desalination technology. Given the great significance we attach to the establishment of that centre, as it will have a decidedly positive impact on the economic development of the States of the Middle East, we look forward to the cooperation of all in this regard in order to make the transfer of water- resources technology cost effective to the region so as to help in raising the standards of social and economic development and, thereby, in consolidating the peace and stability of the region. We in the Gulf region are committed to the achievement of the highest level of stability, cooperation and development in all our countries and to the development of our multilateral and bilateral relations. This naturally embraces the settlement of all bilateral differences. Consequently, we view with satisfaction the agreement between the State of Bahrain and the State of Qatar to have recourse to the International Court of Justice with regard to their differences over the disputed islands and the maritime borders. We also hope that the Islamic Republic of Iran and the United Arab Emirates would settle their differences regarding the islands of Abu Moussa, the Greater Tumb and the Lesser Tumb as soon as possible, in an amicable and peaceful fashion. This could include having recourse to international arbitration in view of the mutual interests the two countries share in various spheres. There is no doubt that such regional efforts will contribute to the consolidation of regional security and serve the cause of international peace. We have noted recently that there has been considerable progress in Iraq’s implementation of the resolutions relating to the destruction of weapons of mass destruction, particularly the agreement on the installation of a long-term monitoring system, which should now be put into effect for a suitable period. In the meantime, the Security Council should proceed to make the necessary contacts with both Iraq and Kuwait to implement its resolution 833 (1993) regarding the demarcation of international borders between the two countries through the acceptance and legal ratification by the parties in accordance with established international norms and practices in matters relating to international borders. We believe that it is an opportune time to take more positive steps to enable Iraq to perform its regional and international role in a peaceful context and to help the brotherly Iraqi people to put behind it the years of embargo and to make up for what it has lost in terms of social and economic development. The future of the region should be based on the conviction that it is imperative for States to develop and further their relations and to overcome their outstanding differences in a manner that safeguards the interests of all parties. The interdependent nature of today’s world makes it impossible for States to pursue an individualistic approach that disregards the interests of others. We therefore believe that the peaceful conduct of relations and the pursuit of constructive political dialogue are the best guarantees for present and future security and stability in the region. We aspire after a more stable, more developed world that would be totally free from ethnic and regional conflicts, a world that would be able to ensure the progress of mankind towards a better way of life by channelling the disposable economic resources to the financing of scientific research which may benefit social and economic development. While we are fully aware of the fact that the international community has made real progress in changing to the better in many important areas, it is nevertheless regrettable that there remain many factors which make other parts of the world prey to political, ethnic and regional conflicts. It is now abundantly clear that the United Nations is losing its ability to address all these crises. While we sympathize with the sufferings of many peoples that are victims of such crises, we believe it is high time the international community set up a new and unambiguous rule that should be followed in dealing with such problems. It is evident that the present mechanisms available to the United Nations and other international organizations are no longer able to perform their humanitarian role. It is not possible for the United Nations to go on feeding whole peoples indefinitely, and it is, therefore, high time for the leaders of countries immersed in such tensions and conflicts to realize that the United Nations will not be 18 responsible for their actions towards their peoples, and that the States of the international community are no longer able to rebuild for them what they themselves have destroyed. Funds should not be made available to rebuild countries which destroy their own infrastructures with their own hands. All peoples should contribute effectively to the development of the world economy rather than be a burden on it. The United Nations cannot play a peace-keeping role in each and every conflict that erupts in the world. Peace- keeping forces should not be dragged into regional conflicts except to the extent to which regional organizations and States are willing to shoulder their full responsibility in this regard. If deemed necessary, this should take place only following the consent of the parties to conflict and on the basis of clear goals and mandates linked to a definite time- frame. Regional organizations have a vital role to play in the resolution of the disputes that exist in many parts of the world. Although that role parallels and is complementary to the efforts of the United Nations, we have noted that, regardless of how important and necessary it is, it is almost non-existent in the political arena. While we value the efforts of the peace-keeping forces in Somalia, we believe it would have been possible to avoid the negative aspects that became evident in that operation had full use been made of the Organization of African Unity, the competent regional organization qualified to bring about national reconciliation and the establishment of national authority. The United Nations could have lent a helping hand by providing expertise and advice, as well as political, financial and humanitarian support. Regional arrangements, whether in Asia, Africa or in any other continent, in no way detract from the role of the Security Council as the principal body responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security. Rather, such regional arrangements could help lighten the Council’s workload and instil a sense of partnership and a spirit of caring into international affairs. As the possibility of the failure of some peace-keeping operations cannot be ruled out, it is necessary to face the facts and to draw object lessons from them if the United Nations is to avoid sliding into the repetition of the same mistakes. Tragic events are taking place in Rwanda as a result of the continuing political and ethnic strife that has led to the outbreak of violence, to the horrendous massacres, which claimed hundreds of thousands of innocent lives, and to the destruction of the infrastructure of that country’s economy. Great numbers of Rwanda’s people are now living in refugee camps in neighbouring countries under unimaginably tragic circumstances. Hunger and disease claim the lives of hundreds daily. In view of this horrendous suffering, my country calls upon the Rwandese parties to stop the bloodshed and work towards national reconciliation in accordance with the Arusha Peace Agreement so that peace and stability may be restored in Rwanda. The mediation efforts undertaken so far to bring about peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina have proven to be insufficient, due mainly to the imbalance of power between the Bosnian parties. The main cause of imbalance in this regard is the denial to the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina of their right to fight for their existence through the imposition of a comprehensive arms embargo on that small State, in total disregard of its right of self-defence enshrined in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. The arms embargo should be imposed on the aggressor. And who is the aggressor in the Bosnian case? All the facts available to the United Nations and its agencies regarding the situation in Sarajevo and in other Bosnian cities prove that the Serbs are the aggressors, and in the most inhuman terms. While my country welcomes the structural reforms undertaken with a view to ensuring the optimum utilization of the resources available to the United Nations with the greatest degree of efficiency and flexibility, it feels that the ability of the Organization to discharge its duties and perform its role depends to a very large extent on the willingness of the Member States to live up to one of the main responsibilities of membership - the prompt payment of their financial contributions, including their prompt contribution to peace-keeping operations. As we approach the second summit meeting of the Security Council, we ought to accord due attention to the issue of the expansion of the Council’s membership in accordance with the different trends prevailing in the world, while constantly preserving the principle of equitable geographic balance without prejudice to the level of decision-making in the Council. We therefore subscribe to the view that no hasty decision should be taken in this respect and that more time should be given to the regional groups to expound their views in this regard. 19 My country has noted with satisfaction the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the long-range General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1994 and the establishment of the World Trade Organization. This has helped prevent the world economic order’s turning into a hotbed of tension and strife between the various regions. However, my country and the developing countries in general, some of which have acceded to those agreements or are in the process of so doing, request that their particular circumstances be taken into consideration when implementing the new agreements. It is expected that our developing countries will have to make sacrifices in order to support the world economic order arising out of the 1994 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, particularly in the short and medium terms. Therefore, we hope to find support from the new World Trade Organization that would be proportionate to what we have to offer. We are particularly interested in the developmental aspect of these agreements, as we are interested in strengthening and developing the service sector in our countries through the assistance offered by the advanced economies and the international organizations. In the area of disarmament, we hope that the international support to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction will give impetus to the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva to draft a comprehensive test-ban treaty that would be an important step towards ridding the world of nuclear terror. In this context, we support the efforts aimed at establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones, particularly in the Middle East, which is one of the world’s most sensitive regions. At present, thanks to the prevailing spirit of concord and the ending of the cold war between the East and West, we witness a robust movement towards the consolidation of peace and security. The world is beginning to realize that a climate of concord and harmony is the most viable means of establishing an international community characterized by constructive cooperation and mutual benefit, and that such a development will be in the interest of mankind and its well-being. Today, on the threshold of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, we hope that the outcome of this session will be more compatible with the principle of international partnership and solidarity so that humanity may be able to lessen and cure the ailments that sill undermine the twentieth century and thus ensure that the twenty-first century will be a century of hope, peace and security for all human beings wherever they may be on the face of the Earth. It is with great pleasure that I congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his election to the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly. His remarkable talent and consummate experience assure us that we can feel proud and confident as he discharges his new functions admirably and with distinction. His leadership of the Assembly confers dignity on Africa, on West Africa and on his country, Côte d’Ivoire, with which Sierra Leone happily enjoys excellent bilateral relations and shares a common West African identity. We extend to him an abiding wish for his success. To Ambassador Insanally of Guyana, his immediate predecessor, I convey my delegation’s gratitude and appreciation for the commendable manner in which he performed his duties as President of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly. The approach adopted by the Secretary-General of our Organization since he assumed office has been exemplary in many ways. He deserves high tribute for his untiring efforts over the past two years, especially in the realms of the maintenance of international peace and security and the promotion of development. The world is still in transition. Although the outcome of the process of transformation is not easy to predict with any degree of certainty, it is nevertheless clear that the world will continue to be preoccupied in the next half- century with problems carried over from the last - problems concerning the promotion of development, especially of the least developed countries; the maintenance of peace and security; and the consolidation and strengthening of the process of cooperation and integration between nations. These are among the major challenges of our time. Developmental and political issues now occupy a larger part of our global, regional and national agendas, and the past 12 months have been no exception. In some cases, these developments have been a source of joy and satisfaction; in others, the stigma of shame and disgrace has loomed larger. On the economic front, the slow, uncertain and unbalanced growth of the economies of developing countries generally has been a source of grave concern. This is evidenced by the alarming increase in the number of peoples living in absolute poverty, stagnating resource flows, dwindling direct foreign investment, reduction in export earnings, excruciating debt crises, rising unemployment, especially among the youth, and environmental degradation. The persistence of these problems could easily undermine the stability of the world economy and pose serious threats to international peace and security. Immeasurable work has been done to redress the economic stranglehold in which most of our countries find themselves. A lot more, however, needs to be done by the developed countries and the international financial institutions to prevent many of the world’s poor countries from being completely submerged by the heavy burdens imposed by the present international economic system. More specifically, new, additional resources, at both the multilateral and the bilateral levels, need to be provided by our development partners if any improvement in the lives of the teeming millions in the third world is to be assured. The situation is even more acute for my country, which is in the throes of a rebel war and implementing a substantial economic reform programme as well as a political transition programme — all three activities taking place simultaneously. Hardly any other State member of the Assembly shares this unique experience. Given the increasing interdependence and globalization of the world economy, the massively deteriorating economic situation of the developing countries and, in particular, the 20 uniqueness of the plight of Sierra Leone deserve the full and urgent attention of all the members of the international community. Poverty and the decreasing living standards of the majority of our people are at the heart of our problems. To alleviate these problems, my Government has embarked on courageous, wide-ranging and far-reaching socio-economic reforms, including the deregulation of prices and exchange and interest rates, and the reduction of fiscal deficit. The pace and scope of these reforms, however, contrast sharply with the very modest results achieved so far. Despite considerable success in securing short-term macroeconomic stabilization, the reforms appear to have neither removed the structural constraints facing the economy nor improved supply capacity. We are now resolved to ensure that future adjustment programmes are designed and implemented in a manner that takes due cognizance of the special needs of the vulnerable groups of our society as well as the social requirements of development. Those are just some of the difficult tasks ahead. They are made no less formidable by the new challenges posed by the Uruguay Round agreements signed at Marrakesh last April. My Government welcomes the new agreements, but would stress the need for continued evaluation of their implementation to ensure expansion of world trade for all countries, improved market access and adequate protection of the interests of the least developed countries in particular. Any attempt, therefore, to impose new conditionalities, encompassing environmental and labour conditionalities in this context, must be strongly resisted. In the meantime, the observation is inescapable that the Marrakesh agreements pose a real danger to trade preferences previously assured developing countries; this can lead to a loss in export market share and export earnings. Moreover, countries that are net importers of food face the prospect of higher food-import bills arising from the liberalization of trade in the agricultural sector. There is therefore a need to address without delay the question of how the adverse consequences of the Marrakesh agreements can be mitigated through enhanced trade preferences, assistance and compensation. The external indebtedness of developing countries poses the biggest impediment to their development. A permanent and comprehensive solution must therefore be found without further delay. That is why we commend the Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement, His Excellency President Soeharto of Indonesia, for taking the initiative to convene in Jakarta last August a ministerial meeting of non-aligned countries on debt and development, with the theme “sharing of experiences”. That high-level meeting on the debt crisis of developing countries, which I attended together with Ministers from twenty-five heavily debt-distressed, least-developed countries, endorsed a number of general principles for debt reduction, which represent a significant step in the search for a lasting solution to the debt problem. We therefore urge the United Nations and the international community to adopt the principles contained in the report of the Jakarta meeting, submitted to the Assembly by Indonesia. Calling upon the international community to pay special attention to the problems of developing countries is not a proclamation of abdication of responsibility. In Africa, for example, we have accepted that the key to sustainable development is in the hands of Africans themselves. The African leadership must therefore demonstrate a determination to stay the course of appropriate economic reforms and improvement in governance. We do emphasize, however, that the international community must play a crucial supportive role in the creation of the environment necessary to guarantee sustainable growth and development of developing countries in ways that include the provision of adequate levels of concessional, financial and technical support for infrastructure and national capacity-building on a continuous, predictable and assured basis. The issues I have raised will no doubt be on the agendas of certain conferences slated for the coming year. The World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen, March 1995, will provide an opportunity for all of us to focus on such matters as socio-economic developmental challenges, the adoption of a global strategy for poverty eradication, the generation of productive employment and the enhancement of social integration — in all of which the needs of people will occupy centre stage. The situation of women and the need to integrate them better in the development process as agents and beneficiaries of development will also receive attention at the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be convened at Beijing in September next year. This Assembly, for its part, is convening a high-level intergovernmental meeting to conduct a mid-term global review of progress in the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries in the 1990s. Naturally, my delegation holds high expectations that the recommendations and conclusions of these meetings will make substantial contributions towards creating the climate necessary for 21 enhancing the socio-economic conditions of developing countries. In the same vein, my delegation commends the timely initiative of the Secretary-General in submitting “An Agenda for Development” pursuant to the resolutions of this Assembly. It provides us with another historic opportunity to address the root causes of poverty and underdevelopment of the developing countries in a holistic and comprehensive manner. We urge the Secretary -General to make concrete, action-oriented recommendations for the enhancement of the socio-economic conditions of these countries and to suggest practical measures for their implementation. Turning now to the environment, my delegation is concerned at the general response to the recommendations, decisions and commitments of the Rio de Janeiro Conference on Environment and Development, held over two years ago. True, some progress has been recorded since that Conference. What is missing, however, is a clear commitment on the part of the developed countries to provide financial and other relevant resources for the implementation of Agenda 21. We in the developing world are committed to implementing Agenda 21, but this commitment will remain illusory unless it is complemented by adequate human, financial and technical resources. On the world political scene too, the picture that we see concurrently inspires hope and engenders desperation. Without a doubt, the holding of the first pluralistic, non-racial, democratic elections in South Africa, in April this year, and the subsequent installation of a Government of national unity, marked a major achievement not only for the people of South Africa but also for this Organization. The patient and dedicated struggle of all peace-loving South Africans to resolve peacefully the abominable policy of apartheid, aided by the committed solidarity of the world at large, has been amply rewarded. In taking this opportunity, on behalf of the Government and the people of Sierra Leone, formally to welcome South Africa back into this world Assembly, I wish to reiterate our commitment to work together with the new Government to make our continent a better place for all of us. Theirs has been a long and arduous journey through dark and difficult times that tested both courage and faith. The presence of the South African delegation here today is a confirmation of man’s ability to rise above those conditions that threaten his survival and to resolve them peacefully, though they may have originally appeared insurmountable. There are at least three lessons to be learnt from the South African experience: First, with South Africa’s freedom, the non-white peoples of that country, and indeed everywhere, are enabled to regain their lost humanity. While apartheid existed, its stigma touched many, even beyond that country’s borders. Yet, with that policy’s banishment from the South African landscape, this Organization should now rekindle its sense of purpose to continue the struggle against racial discrimination and segregation wherever they exist. Secondly, the attainment by South Africa of democratic values under a non-racial Government of national unity should demonstrate to all countries, especially in Africa, that excuses for denying a similar transformation to our own societies are now untenable. Thirdly, the fact that such a man as Mr. Nelson Mandela could emerge from 27 years of imprisonment on Robben Island and, setting aside any bitterness, preach and demonstrate accommodation and national reconciliation should in itself encourage our brothers and sisters in divided societies to forswear retribution and strive instead for tolerance and harmony. These lessons have not been lost on us in Sierra Leone. We have come to understand and appreciate from this exemplary South African political experience that, where democratic principles are applied in full in the governance of any nation, there is every likelihood that solutions will be found to the political problems of that nation, however intractable they may appear. Conscious of this fact, the Government of the National Provisional Ruling Council of Sierra Leone, headed by His Excellency Captain Valentine Strasser, has unveiled a political reform programme that will ensure the installation of a democratically elected government in our country by January 1996. With that in view, an Interim National Electoral Commission of eminent citizens has now been constituted, headed by Mr. James Jonah, former Under- Secretary-General of this Organization. Furthermore, as a result of extensive debates on an initial Working Document put together by a National Advisory Council, the draft constitution has now been finalized and will soon be presented to the people for final approval. Meanwhile, a National Commission on Democracy, which will undertake a programme of mass education to let the people appreciate the values of democracy and their rights 22 and duties as citizens, will soon be appointed. All these steps are designed to underscore the commitment of my Government towards the full restoration of democracy in Sierra Leone by the end of 1995. Let me assure this Assembly that the Government of the National Provisional Ruling Council remains fully committed to the transition programme, which continues to be on course. We look forward to the cooperation and assistance of the international community in enabling us to realize the programme’s objectives. Allow me at this point to recall the adoption by the General Assembly last year of resolution 48/196, entitled “International assistance to Sierra Leone”, and our continued expectation for the full implementation of its provisions. We are appreciative of the assistance extended to Sierra Leone so far by the international community, especially in the humanitarian field, and look forward to its continuation and increase in the future. Yet, as promising as the nation’s prospects are, it should not be forgotten that we are engaged in a rebel war whose origins are inextricably linked to the Liberian conflict, and whose consequences are still visible in the large number of refugees and internally displaced Sierra Leoneans, who now total an estimated 300,000 and 400,000 respectively. Further, the untold devastation of the country’s economically productive areas continues to undermine an already fragile economy. My Government realizes that even though our meagre resources are now committed to bringing this rebel war to an end, we must necessarily look forward to the reconstruction of our country and its economy, a task whose success will be greatly enhanced through collaboration with the United Nations system, especially in working out a programme for the rehabilitation of the devastated areas and the resettlement of our refugees and displaced citizens. To this end, we have already laid the foundations for the expeditious rehabilitation of these areas upon the conclusion of the war, by setting up a National Rehabilitation Committee that will oversee our efforts in this matter. While, as a Government, we continue with reluctance to pursue the military option in prosecuting this war — and we wish to record here our appreciation to all friendly Governments, particularly Nigeria, Guinea and the People’s Republic of China, for their assistance in that effort — let me say here and now that no option is foreclosed. We remain amenable to any option, military or non-military, that will secure a speedy conclusion to this untenable situation, thus ensuring the creation of an environment conducive to the holding of the elections anticipated in our transition programme. The success of these undertakings and of others in my Government’s transition programme depends largely on the progress that is made in restoring peace to Liberia, hence our deep concern about developments taking place across our border. It is in this connection that we renew our commitment to the Cotonou accords and reiterate that they contain the essential elements for the resolution of the Liberian conflict, namely the disarmament of the warring factions, leading to the holding of elections. Drawing from the experience in Angola, it is clear that without such disarmament, peace in Liberia will be tenuous at best. We therefore call on the United Nations and the international community to support the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) financially, logistically and otherwise in order to reinvigorate the peace process and ensure that disarmament gains renewed momentum. Given our own refugee situation, we are gravely concerned about the increasing flows in the world refugee population, about half of whom are children, whose needs should be met through appropriate measures of protection and assistance. This International Year of the Family therefore provides an excellent opportunity to focus attention on the essential needs of refugee children. In contemplating concrete measures to be taken by the international community in addressing this phenomenon, it is essential that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child be fully implemented. As crucial as these measures are for mitigating the global refugee problem, we remain convinced that, unless and until the international community overcomes the scourge of poverty and political strife, this problem will remain constantly with us. It is our fervent hope, therefore, that a renewed impetus will once again be found to prevent and eradicate this condition of boundless human misery. Looking beyond the borders of our region, Sierra Leone acknowledges the signing of the Washington Declaration by Israel and Jordan, ending the state of war between the two countries. We see this as a continuation of the peace process that started three years ago and that led to the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self- Government Arrangements in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. It is a positive development, coming after the assumption of Palestinian self-government earlier this 23 year, and anticipates the eventual attainment of comprehensive peace among all concerned parties in the Middle East. In this connection, my Government would like to commend the role of the United States and Egypt for their relentless efforts in bringing together Israel and its Arab neighbours. We urge Israel on the one hand, and Lebanon and Syria on the other to intensify their efforts and display the spirit of accommodation that had underpinned successes in other areas, so as to make the important objective of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in the Middle East realizable within the shortest possible time — in the interest not only of the people of the region, but of the world at large. With regard to the dispute between Kuwait and Iraq, we call upon Iraq fully to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of the Security Council. We would also hope that in other areas, such as Somalia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, there will be progress in bringing to an end the present unacceptable stalemate. While the absence of progress may be frustrating, we nevertheless believe that it would be a tragic mistake even to contemplate disengagement from peace- keeping operations in Africa at this crucial stage. By far the most appalling situation that the international community has had to confront recently is that in Rwanda. We will not readily forget those graphic images of death, abject misery and destruction, or soon overcome the torment and challenges that our collective conscience has had to face. It is hard to explain and harder still to understand how those dark days from April to July could have taken place in this century in full view of the world. That such a tragedy occurred at all points to the failure of existing international mechanisms for responding to such devastating situations. Drawing from the Rwandan experience, the time has come for all of us, but more so for us in Africa, to come to terms with the diverse nature of our societies and realize that the denial by any group of the right of another group or section to participate in the life of a nation is indefensible and ultimately self-destructive. Peaceful coexistence of heterogeneous communities and power- sharing within a nation are great values we must all uphold. Further, we believe that painful admissions must be made. A few years ago, when the Monitoring Group of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOMOG) was deployed in Liberia, much criticism was levelled against it. We were accused of harbouring ulterior motives against that country and of encouraging intervention. Yet, looking back, none will deny today that by its deployment ECOMOG averted a similar tragedy in Liberia. Concerted action by West Africans brought that country back from the brink. Today, ECOMOG represents Africa’s flagship in preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping, peace-building and peace enforcement. We call on States in Rwanda’s region to reassert their lead role in the search for a peaceful solution to the crisis in Rwanda. We believe that in the realm of maintaining regional peace and security, regional arrangements have an important role to play, as envisaged in Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. This has been recognized by the exemplary collaboration between the United Nations and ECOWAS on the Liberian situation. In this context also, the OAU mechanism for conflict prevention, management and resolution deserves the fullest support of the United Nations system and the international community. We are therefore deeply encouraged by the positive resonance of some members of the Security Council in that connection. We must at this point applaud the action of the French Government in Rwanda at a time when this Organization seemed completely paralysed. We believe that the French action, which undoubtedly brought a glimmer of hope to a situation that was palpably so catastrophic and which prevented a second Goma, is worthy of special mention by all peace-loving nations. We also commend the efforts of the Organization of African Unity. What is now required to stabilize the situation even further is the provision of full support for the African and other troops that have been or are about to be deployed in Rwanda. We also call upon the present Rwandan Government to continue to take all measures necessary to restore peace and reconciliation to their country. Though we must all learn the painful lessons of the Rwandan experience, it is essential that those who played a part — any part at all — in visiting such horror on the people of Rwanda be held fully accountable for their crimes. In this connection, my delegation fully supports the establishment of a special tribunal to bring to justice those responsible for what can only be described as genocide. We expect that the Commission of Experts 24 will continue to collect all available evidence to make for a speedy conclusion of this shameful episode. In a similar vein, we expect that the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991 will soon begin the process of examining the available evidence in order to bring the perpetrators to justice. The international community has an obligation to ensure that such callous indifference to human life and the deliberate commission of acts of atrocity, wherever they occur, do not go unpunished. The time has come for a strong message to be sent to all who may presume that no consequences will follow from such despicable behaviour simply because it takes place behind national borders. I wish to declare here and now that my Government recognizes that no true governance can endure if people are separated from and denied the full enjoyment of their freedoms and liberties. Stemming from this recognition, therefore, my Government has embarked on the major task of ratifying, as soon as possible, the remaining-human rights instruments to which Sierra Leone is not yet a party, thus guaranteeing within our domestic law their application to all Sierra Leoneans. As conflicts go, none on our continent appears more intractable than that in Angola, where more than two decades of devastation have fostered a culture of violence and war. The continuation of this conflict, which has cost the lives of countless thousands of peaceful Angolans, remains a source of pain and anguish to my Government. Although not much optimism has been evinced, there seems to be some progress in the Lusaka peace talks. With the acceptance by both the Angolan Government and UNITA of the comprehensive package put forward by the Secretary-General’s representative, there is now renewed hope that the talks will soon yield the desired result of a durable solution. My delegation welcomes this development and would like to encourage both parties to the conflict in Angola to allow the will of the Angolan people to prevail over the barrel of the gun. On the positive side, in a year that has been as volatile as this one, the knowledge that general elections will soon take place in Mozambique is cause for satisfaction. We call upon the people of Mozambique to seize this opportunity to firmly demonstrate faith in their own ability to resolve finally the many years of conflict they have endured. Africans everywhere, I am sure, will give their blessing as Mozambique embarks on the path to durable peace and reconciliation. Among the many ills that afflict our world today, few are more inimical to the common good than the alarming resurgence of racism and xenophobia. Our concern is heightened even further when we recall that it is scarcely more than 50 years ago that the world witnessed the worst manifestations of racial discrimination. Back then, passions were inflamed by those who argued falsely that the presence of so-called foreigners was injurious to the economic well-being of the State. Today, this nefarious argument is once again gaining ground among bigots who see immigrants, asylum-seekers and refugees from other countries as targets for violence. Surely civilization has come too far to accept this situation. It is for this reason, if for no other, that we believe that the world community should intensify the promotion of the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination and to ensure the success of its objectives. To many of us it seems that the socio-economic well-being of our world is under siege from conflicts in many lands, far and near. In the Organization, our approach has been the traditional reliance on peace- keeping operations. Yet, recent experience has shown that this is not always the best option. My delegation maintains the view that the Organization would be better served by committing the greater part of its scarce resources to socio-economic development activities and preventive diplomacy. Many questions will continue to be asked about the direction that the United Nations must pursue as its fiftieth anniversary dawns. Of vital importance is still the need to encourage and provide for the full participation of all Member States in the work of the Organization. In many ways, we are convinced that the growing incidence of political instability worldwide is a strong advocate of a more efficient, transparent and democratic Security Council — a Council cultivating a culture that frowns upon a few seeking always to wield dominion over the rest. There is now a compelling case for the pursuit of the democratic ethic nationally. But it does not and should not end there: it is equally relevant to the international arena. My delegation hopes that the deliberations of the Open-ended Working Group, seized of the question of 25 institutional reforms, will gather momentum and will bring these concerns to fruition as soon as possible. I have adverted at length to our problems, our concerns, our fears and our aspirations, which we believe we all share in this global village that is home to all of us. Over the years, we have striven together to find solutions to a wide range of problems whose impact can no longer be localized. If our journey through the decades has taught us anything, it is that blinding ourselves to the realities of our time, turning away from them, avoiding involvement or seeking solace in inaction provides only momentary consolation or comfort. The quantum leap in transport and communications makes us all our brother’s keepers. No longer is poverty merely the affliction of a distant cousin in a far-off land, nor can we successfully shield ourselves from the trials and tribulations of those who may be less fortunate than we are. The lesson to be learnt from all this is that, as human beings, we have a fate inextricably interwoven, whether we like it or not. Thus, our common endeavour to improve our world should be impelled by a much bolder vision — one that brooks no compromise in combating injustice, be it political, social or economic, and one that seeks to strengthen the pillars of international cooperation, eradicate poverty and address the causes of instability. These, then, are the challenges before us that a new and revitalized United Nations must pursue with vigour and commitment. “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development” not only show that peace and development are inseparable twins but contain the essential ingredients of a new vision of our one world. Let us now give that vision the focus and direction of a better tomorrow. Please allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the exalted office of President of the General Assembly. Your distinguished career and your experience in international affairs, together with your outstanding personal qualities, assure us of wise and skilled leadership at the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. As we approach the fiftieth year of the life of our Organization, let us look back to the first principles of its existence. Let us see how we can apply those principles to the dynamic realities of our time and, to the extent that human discernment will allow, to the uncertain circumstances of the next half century. Emerging from the unspeakable horror and devastation of untrammelled global conflict, the international community brought forth the United Nations as an instrument, above all, for preventing conflict and keeping the peace. This mission was to be carried out, if possible, through the encouragement of the peaceful settlement of disputes by the contending parties themselves or, if necessary, through the interposition of armed force by the United Nations. As with any human institution, the United Nations record in this regard has been mixed. We find that the United Nations has been effective in keeping the peace in those cases in which both the parties to the disputes and the major Powers involved have turned — or have been compelled to turn — to the international community to separate the contending forces and allow them a respite from war. This we have seen in such places as Cyprus, Angola, Mozambique, Liberia and certain parts of the Middle East, including Lebanon. In recent years, a singular success was achieved in my own part of the world when in Cambodia, upon the resolve of the international community and the Cambodian parties themselves, the United Nations not only enforced the peace but also managed the transition to a regime of peace and national reconciliation. Contending with matters of war and peace has engaged the greater portion of the attention and preoccupation of the United Nations and of the international community. However, our founding fathers recognized from the very beginning that it is not enough to head off crises and intervene in conflicts, but that the roots of war and peace lie in the human condition and the human mind. It is thus there, at their roots, that mankind must deal with questions of war and peace. As we look back at this half-century, we see with extraordinary clarity that the enduring triumphs of the international community have come not with the imposition of outside force but when the deepest concerns of the nations and peoples involved are addressed and resolved. In the past year, two such triumphs brightened, like twin comets, the history of the human community, forcefully demonstrating yet again this essential reality. These triumphant achievements came in precisely those two areas that had most deeply engaged the United Nations for the greater part of its existence — South Africa and the Middle East. In South Africa, national peace and reconciliation in a regime of democracy emerged victorious after decades of struggle, led by the United Nations, against apartheid and on behalf of human dignity, racial equality, majority rule and political pluralism. This happened only after most of the political forces in the country recognized these universal values as essential to the survival of the South African nation. In the Middle East, the dramatic breakthrough worked out by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) has opened the doors of hope for an end to the Arab-Israeli conflict. This was made possible by the tenacious insistence of the international community, mainly through the United Nations, on the right of the Palestinian people to govern themselves and on the right of all States in the region to a secure existence within internationally recognized boundaries. It finally occurred because the leaders of Israel and the PLO and other Arab leaders recognized the essential nature of these rights. Sadly, savage conflicts continue to ravage lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Somalia, Rwanda and other areas experiencing similar tragedies, mainly because people of influence among the various ethnic groups, tribes and clans have not accepted the fundamental truth of their common humanity. For a long time, the United Nations has advanced the proposition that economic development — raising the income of a nation as a whole — was vital to peace and stability in the world. The United Nations is certainly right to emphasize this important reality. In many cases, extreme poverty has led to despair and to a sense of outrage over the perceived injustice of living in penury and deprivation in a world of affluence and profligate consumption, of being inadequately compensated for the use by others of one’s nation’s human and natural resources, and of being doomed to a chronic inability to shake off an unpayable debt to foreign creditors. Fortunately, many developing nations — and the Philippines is proud to take its place among them — have made hard political decisions and adopted economic policies favourable to dynamic and sustained economic growth. 19 These are thus hopeful times for economic growth, at least for those countries in a position to take advantage of a more liberal international trading regime. However, as many countries, and the United Nations itself, have realized, economic development by itself is not enough. Raising the overall income of a nation is not enough. A larger gross national product does not necessarily mean a better life for the individual citizen. A bigger economy by itself does not satisfy the individual person’s aspiration to human fulfilment. Indeed, economic growth cannot be sustained for long unless the individual citizen and the individual community have a stake in that growth and unless they are mobilized and empowered to take active part in the process of development. Economic growth would be meaningless to the individual who does not share in its benefits or whose community is destroyed by it. Development is empty for persons who are deprived of their individual rights and freedoms. A society cannot find fulfilment in growth, and indeed the development process itself is severely hampered, if it does not take adequate care of its vulnerable groups: women, children, ethnic minorities, the handicapped, the homeless. Development cannot be sustained unless the nurturing qualities of the natural environment are conserved for future generations. Care for citizens’ fulfilment as human beings, for their community and for society cannot wait. It cannot wait for total peace to be achieved or for a certain level of development to be attained. All these — peace, development, and the quality of society and of human life — must proceed simultaneously. We in the Philippines have learned this lesson the hard way and are now applying it faithfully. We have secured peace and national reconciliation through a peace process that includes having sincere discussions with dissident elements and extending a generous amnesty to them. We have granted a substantial degree of autonomy and self-rule to our ethnic minorities, particularly the Muslim community. We have devolved extensive authority, responsibility and resources on local governments and communities, and we have restored the system of democratic pluralism, through which the people and their groups can thrash out their grievances and advance their interests in peace and with civility. At the same time, we have pursued a purposeful programme of economic development through the liberalization of the conditions governing trade, investments, and banking and finance, and through the privatization of Government enterprises. We have provided infrastructure facilities and generous incentives for domestic and foreign investors. These, together with the restoration of political stability, have placed us back on the road to economic recovery and self-sustaining growth. Simultaneously, we have adopted a social agenda through a broad national consensus. In accordance with that agenda we have endeavoured to improve the quality of life of our people, not only because such an improvement is their inherent right, and not only because the ultimate purpose of development, in our view, is the welfare of the individual and his community, but also because we know that the best way to spur economic development is to afford the people a stake in it and because we recognize that the people are an economy’s most vital resource. We are thus jealously safeguarding the individual Filipino’s fundamental rights and freedoms. Part of this effort is the importance that we place on human-rights education for all, including the armed forces and the police, a mission that is mandated by a unique provision in our Constitution. We are expanding the empowerment of our people and their communities, particularly of the most vulnerable groups. We have devoted attention and resources to the concerns of women, including women workers, and of children, particularly those of the poor. We have protected the rights and culture of our ethnic minorities. And we have allocated substantial resources to health and education for the development of our people as our most valuable asset. We in the Philippines believe that this simultaneous and balanced approach to peace, development and the quality of individual lives must be applied in the international community as well as within nations, in the family of man as well as in national societies. The expansion of the global economy is important for peace in the world and the progress of nations, but it is not enough. Each country must have a stake in this expansion and an enlarged share of it. Even this is not enough. The international community must go beyond nations in its ministrations. It must devote greater attention to care and respect for people and to the recognition of the inherent equality of all human beings — regardless of gender, of age, of race, of religion, of language, of culture or of nationality. 20 We must all remember that the sources of conflict do not lie only in disputes over territory or resources. As we know only too well, they arise also, and it seems increasingly, from intolerance of other people’s beliefs and cultures and from the less than human treatment of people from other lands. Mankind has made progress in advancing the truth that there are certain things that transcend national boundaries and are the common heritage, the common concern and the common responsibility of all nations and of mankind as a whole. Among these are the environment and the oceans and their resources. There is something else that transcends national boundaries and summons global responsibility, something that is of infinitely greater worth than even the environment or the oceans. I am speaking of the world’s most vulnerable human groups. I speak specifically of migrant workers, refugees, children, the aged and the disabled, and the special concerns of the world’s women. The transnational migration of workers is an increasingly prominent phenomenon of international life in our time. This is the result of supply and demand for workers seeking equilibrium. Migrant workers, however, are more than a commodity to be traded in the international market-place. They have the same dignity and rights as any of us in this Hall. Moreover, they make a vital contribution to the economies and societies of the countries in which they live and work. And yet, many countries, including developing countries, treat migrant workers as being less than the human beings that they are. At best, these workers are left unprotected by the law governing labour and employment. The international community, the United Nations, cannot allow the abuse of these vulnerable and valuable members of the human family to continue. We urge member States to ratify or accede to the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families as an expression of their recognition of the common humanity that they share with migrants and their families. The Secretary-General might form a group to submit recommendations to the Assembly at our next session on improving coordination of the various efforts of the United Nations on behalf of migrant workers. And I call upon the High Commissioner for Human Rights to make the rights of migrant workers one of his priority concerns. I reiterate the call for a global conference on international migration and development, which was supported by many delegations at the recent International Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo. Natural and man-made disasters have created large-scale flows of refugees around the world. While the distinction between refugees and economic migrants has to be resolutely made, genuine refugees must be given all the protection that international conventions call for. Children, by their very nature, have a claim to mankind’s protection and care. That claim is special in the case of street children, children coerced into drug addiction, refugee children and children in the areas of armed conflict or natural disasters. National societies and the international community must ensure that such children are provided with adequate food, medical care, shelter and education. We may need to draw up a convention dealing with the sale of children, child prostitution, child pornography and the nefarious trade in body parts of children. The rights, education and empowerment of women around the world are of special importance to the United Nations and to the world, as they have everything to do with some of mankind’s most vital concerns — the health and education of children, the advancement of the economy, the preservation of the environment and the management of the country’s and the world’s population. We in the Philippines look forward to the Fourth World Conference on Women, and call for the inclusion in its platform of action of measures for the protection and advancement of women’s rights, particularly of women in positions of great vulnerability, including women migrant workers, women refugees, and minority women. We also call upon the Ninth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders to take steps towards making gender-based violence a crime, especially violence against women migrant workers and the victims of the traffic in women. Underlying the need to safeguard the welfare of these vulnerable groups is the fundamental issue of human rights, the issue of respect for all people and their rights, the issue of their inherent equality as human beings. The United Nations has adopted numerous international instruments on human rights, beginning with the Universal Declaration. The Philippines is party to 21 of these. 21 The United Nations must renew its commitment to foster compliance with these solemn covenants, always with respect for the sovereignty of nations. Since the concept of the inherent rights and equality of human persons resides in the minds of people, United Nations efforts in this regard must begin with education. As our Constitution proclaims, human-rights education is itself a human right. Our delegation reaffirms its full support for a proposal introduced last year for the declaration of a United Nations decade on human rights education. At the same time, the United Nations human rights machinery must be strengthened, particularly the new office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights. Even as we refocus our concerns on basic human needs, we should not lose sight of the continuing, and even increased, importance of peace-keeping in the mandate of the United Nations. We must, however, make sure that the peace-keeping function does not divert resources from economic and social development, is not used by the major Powers simply to pursue their respective agendas, and is carried out in a transparent and democratic manner. The Philippines fully supports an approach to international peace and security that is based on securing friendly relations among peoples of different political, cultural, ethnic and religious backgrounds, respect for international law, and the peaceful settlement of disputes. We believe that the maintenance of international peace and security should not rest primarily on the use or threat of sanctions, armed force, or other coercive measures. Nor should peace-keeping operations, important as they are, take the place of the political settlement of disputes. In light of this, and because of the growing number and complexity of United Nations peace-keeping operations, we in the United Nations have to agree on a set of guiding principles for the establishment and conduct of such operations. Such a set of guidelines would not only contribute to the effectiveness of the peace-keeping operations but also broaden the base of active support for them. The maintenance of international peace and security is a collective responsibility. The United Nations must ensure the international nature of all peace-keeping operations if it is to maintain their credibility. It is in this spirit that we approach the live question of the reform of the Security Council. It is ironic that, in the midst of the rapid spread of democracy within nations in recent years and the expanding membership of the United Nations, the Security Council remains unrepresentative in its size and in the geographic distribution of its membership and undemocratic in its decision-making and working methods. Clearly, while the composition and methods of the Security Council must reflect the realities of political and economic power, we have to redress the imbalance in its composition and increase the participation of the general membership and other United Nations organs in its decision-making, if we are to enhance its effectiveness and its accountability. This would involve both enlarging the Council’s membership and reforming its methods and procedures. Specifically, we believe that the Council’s membership should be better balanced in terms of geographic distribution and increased representation of the developing countries. At the same time, the Security Council has to improve the transparency of its working methods and decision-making processes, which, in turn, would enhance its working relationship with the general membership and the other principal organs of the United Nations, especially the General Assembly. We look forward to early action on this aspiration by the working group of the General Assembly dealing with the expansion of the Security Council and related matters. The General Assembly, for its part, must revitalize itself if it is to carry out its functions and discharge its responsibilities under the Charter, including those pertaining to the maintenance of international peace and security in which it must assert its role as the only principal organ with universal membership. In the past two years, the General Assembly adopted two resolutions to this effect. Let us begin implementing their key provisions. Revitalization of the United Nations is demanded by the new circumstances and challenges of today’s dynamic world. Let us, at the very least, do our very best to uphold and strengthen the principle of universality in our Organization. It is in the interest of revitalizing the United Nations that the effective management of the Organization assumes enormous importance. The Philippine delegation welcomes the creation by the General Assembly of the Office of Internal Oversight Services. We suggest, however, that the Assembly consider the possible establishment of an independent advisory group to oversee the work and receive the reports of this Office. 22 This would provide the checks and balances so necessary in a large organization such as the United Nations. As the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations approaches, we must ensure that the balance is maintained among the principal concerns of the Organization — the maintenance of peace and security, the promotion of economic progress and the advancement of social development. Because it has lagged behind the first two of the preoccupations of the United Nations, I suggest that we now pay closer attention and turn our efforts more to the third of our Organization’s principal concerns — the social component of the basic needs of the human community and the human person. As we approach this important milestone of the Organization, it is altogether fitting that we focus the work of the United Nations on the human person and society, whose interest and welfare, after all, are the ultimate reason for the existence of the United Nations and the final objective of its works. May I at the outset congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his well- deserved election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. Allow me to emphasize my delegation’s complete readiness to cooperate with him and other delegations during this session. I also wish to express my satisfaction at the presence of the delegation of the democratic Government of South Africa at this session. On the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, this session of the General Assembly presents us with the opportunity to envisage a better world based on the principles of the Charter and the shared values and aspirations of its members. The only path to the achievement of this vital goal is the examination of past performance, a sober analysis of present circumstances and the formulation of a renewed vision of the future of international relations in accordance with the Charter. In the past 50 years the United Nations has succeeded in some areas, including decolonization. Yet the rivalries between the two super-Powers did not allow the Organization to accomplish its mission in full. In the area of disarmament, the United Nations was not able to play a significant role, and substantive negotiations were conducted outside the United Nations system. By the same token, the role played by the Organization in economic development was heavily influenced by similar rivalries between East and West, resulting in economic relations devoid of justice and parity. In addition, the cold war was a factor in shaping the structural make-up of the Organization, and so the United Nations was deprived of the opportunity to be a true agent of change. During the past 50 years of its existence the United Nations has had its share of challenges. Yet never before has the Organization faced such a historic and serious challenge in self-renewal as it does at present, when we have reached a crossroads in the history of international relations. Naturally, to meet the challenge of today’s numerous rapid changes, the Organization must rid itself of the very constraints imposed upon it by the era of rivalry between the super-Powers. But, alas, a few self-proclaimed victors of the cold war feel entitled to dictate the new criteria that determine international relations and guide the United Nations and, more specifically, the Security Council, arrogating to themselves the right to impose their own vision and self-serving interpretations on the rest of humanity. The transformation of the Security Council into an instrument for justification or enforcement of policies of a number of permanent members is not at all compatible with the spirit of the Charter and contradicts the very letter of Article 24, according to which the Council acts on behalf of the entire membership of the Organization. Contrary to the assumptions of a few, the Security Council is no one’s private domain and should not be abused to revive the gunboat diplomacy of some Powers. A body charged with the grave responsibility of maintaining international peace and security must not be influenced and manipulated by those Powers that have historically sought to serve their own self-interest at the expense of international peace. The failure of the Security Council to adopt a balanced approach in dealing with various crises and its persistent application of double standards, due to manipulation by some permanent members, have in effect prevented the Council from discharging its primary responsibility in accordance with the Charter. The most vivid illustration has been the silence of the Security Council and its failure to adopt resolute measures in the face of repeated acts of aggression committed by Israel against the people of Palestine, Lebanon, and Syria. How can the Security Council supporters of the regime occupying Palestine allow this expansionist regime to continue its aggression against neighbours, while repeated resolutions of the Council demand an end to occupation? What motives underlie the silence of the Security Council in the face of overt official terrorist acts by Israel in the occupied territories and in South Lebanon? The massacre of Muslims in the Al-Khalil Mosque, the bombing of residential areas in South Lebanon, the kidnapping of Lebanese citizens, and other such incidents portray the bitter reality that Israel has come to believe that, with the support of a number of powerful States, it can continue such behaviour with impunity. Israel’s real and ultimate objective has been to continue its occupation. Today, under the disguise of the peace process, this very policy is being pursued through 37 the repression of Muslims and all opponents of the illegal and aggressive Israeli occupation. Therefore, in our view, the current process lacks realism, fails to adhere to universal principles and therefore will not lead to real peace. The comprehensive and just solution to the Palestinian issue lies in the full realization of all the rights of the people of Palestine, including the return of all Palestinian refugees to their own land, enabling them to exercise their inalienable right to self-determination, and the liberation of all occupied territories. The unprincipled approach of the Security Council vis-à-vis different crises and aggressions is also demonstrated by its questionable handling of the aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For more than two and a half years, the defenceless Muslims of Bosnia have been resisting foreign aggression, 'ethnic cleansing', massacre and the gradual annihilation of their nation. Despite the adoption of countless resolutions and statements, and in fact because of the lack of political will to deal with the roots of the crisis, the Security Council has not only failed to implement its own resolutions, but in fact has empowered the aggressors to continue their atrocities and has prevented a State Member of the United Nations from exercising its inherent right of self-defence through its resistance to the appeal of the international community to lift the unjustifiable arms embargo against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. From the very beginning of the crisis, the Government of Bosnia has participated in all negotiations in good faith, even though most of the peace plans proposed by mediators have been unjust. The Government of Bosnia has amply demonstrated its sincere desire for peace. On the other hand, the aggressors and their supporters have, through a policy of procrastination, created an impasse in the negotiations by mocking all the decisions of the Council and all proposals for peace. However, regrettably and in spite of previous commitments, no measure to encourage compliance and punish intransigence and non-compliance has been adopted by the Council. It was a source of deep anguish and astonishment to witness a few days ago the Security Council prematurely rushing to reward Serbia for nothing more than a tactical move, while months after the acceptance of the latest peace plan by the Government of Bosnia and its rejection by the Serbs, no decision has been made to fulfil the commitment of the five-nation Contact Group, including the lifting of the unjustified arms embargo against Bosnia. In their recent gathering in Islamabad, Islamic countries expressed their determination to contribute individually and collectively to the legitimate defence of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At this juncture, a decisive majority among United Nations Member States are of the view that the implementation of the arms embargo against Bosnia is illegal. Many of these countries, in tandem with public opinion, consider any further waiting for a final pronouncement by the Council as unjustifiable in the present circumstances. Thus, we believe that in the interest of its own credibility, the Council must take action without further ado and show its respect for the views of an undisputed majority within the international community. These examples and the debates of the past year on restructuring the General Assembly and the Security Council have clearly shown that the procedures and methodology of the Security Council must be re-evaluated and changed in order to enable it to address transparently and in a just and serious manner issues affecting international peace and security. Many also agree that the authority of the General Assembly in attending to matters of peace and security, as asserted by the Charter, and the need for greater accountability of the Security Council to the Assembly must be translated from mere words into reality. The Council must scrupulously fulfil its obligations towards the membership of the Organization at large, on whose behalf the Council operates. The United Nations will be able to deal with world issues effectively only when and if all its Members are allowed to participate equally in decision-making. Most contemporary international developments cannot be fully appreciated if looked at in the perspective of 50 years ago. If we are sincere in our belief that the world is so changed that we must eliminate all references to 'enemy States' from the Charter, then why not also acknowledge that there is no further justification for holding on to privileges granted to the war victors of that time? Another fundamental issue which must be carefully considered in our assessment of the first 50 years of the United Nations activities pertains to the role of the United Nations in all matters concerning disarmament, including multilateral efforts to effect total, comprehensive and non-discriminatory disarmament in the world. Today, one of the main preoccupations of the international community is the future of arms control, particularly that of weapons of mass destruction, which have no justification in the post-cold-war era. The international community must identify the hazards attached to stockpiling and horizontal and vertical proliferation of these weapons. It must then move to establish 38 comprehensive, universal and non-discriminatory international treaties to ensure the elimination and destruction of these weapons in the shortest possible time. Shortly after the suspension of the current session, States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons will gather to review the effectiveness of this Treaty over the past 25 years and to decide upon the extent and conditions of its renewal. To reach a rational and practical decision, one must answer the question whether the international community is prepared to accept, as it has done for the past 25 years, that the nuclear Powers, on the one hand, be for ever equipped with these weapons of destruction and that, on the other, the majority of the signatories to the non-proliferation Treaty remain deprived of the peaceful applications of nuclear energy. Iran was one of the first signatories to this Treaty and has remained faithfully committed to it. But at the same time, it is one of the many developing countries deprived of the possibilities of progress and development offered by the peaceful use of nuclear energy as recognized in the Treaty. We believe that the unconditional and indefinite renewal of the non-proliferation Treaty will only lead to the possession of these destructive and anti-human weapons by a handful of nuclear Powers and that the rest of the international community will be forced to live in fear in the dark shadow of these weapons. The founding of a new world order on the encouragement and institutionalization of discriminatory and vague norms, including the conferring of permanent status such treaties and the proliferation of discriminatory, selective and non-universal regimes such as the Australia Group or the London Club, does not augur well for the future of the international community and the emerging world order. The Islamic Republic of Iran, as a victim of weapons of mass destruction, has under no circumstances attempted, nor will it ever attempt, to develop or possess these anti-human weapons. It thus attaches great value to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, despite that instrument’s many inherent shortcomings. However, in our view a limited renewal of the Treaty can serve the objective of nuclear disarmament only if careful attention is paid to the following considerations: first, nuclear Powers should abandon the doctrine of nuclear deterrence and commit themselves to a target date for the complete elimination of nuclear weapons; secondly, the comprehensive test-ban treaty should be finalized and unconditionally signed; thirdly, the production, development, stockpiling of and trade in all fissile materials for nuclear-weapons purposes must be permanently banned; fourthly, the security of non-nuclear States must be guaranteed against the threat of the use of these weapons by others, which will be possible through an effective international treaty; and, lastly, access by Governments to nuclear technology for peaceful purposes should be guaranteed. The future of the nuclear-proliferation Treaty also requires serious consideration of the critical situation in the Middle East and the nuclear threat posed by Israel. Israel’s nuclear programme has exacerbated the arms race in the region and has forced others within the area to turn to more advanced conventional weaponry. Some States in the region have made their accession to a number of disarmament treaties conditional upon Israel’s acceptance of international regimes established to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Israel’s refusal to do so, which regrettably enjoys the support of a number of developed nuclear-weapon States, will affect the perspective of States in the Middle East on the future of the non-proliferation Treaty after 1995. In addition to Israel’s continuous threats, interference by foreign Governments in the affairs of regional States has led to negative perceptions and perspectives within the region that have impeded serious dialogue and consideration of constructive suggestions for creating peace stability and security in the Middle East and the Persian Gulf. The Islamic Republic of Iran, which possesses the longest shoreline along the Persian Gulf and the Sea of Oman, has been well aware of its role and responsibilities in promoting and maintaining peace and security in the area and has spared no effort in this regard. Today, the largest portion of Iran’s national budget is devoted to economic and social development and to reconstruction. Many of our military industries have been transformed into non-military units. Despite the volatile nature of our region and our own bitter experience as a victim of aggression, only an average of 1.6 per cent of Iran’s gross domestic product is allocated to national defence, while some neighbouring countries continue their purchase of huge stockpiles of weapons. We firmly believe in the imperative of developing regional security arrangements that ensure the participation of all Persian Gulf countries. Such arrangements would diminish the arms race and guarantee the free flow of oil and economic development and prosperity in the area. The religious, cultural, historical and commercial commonalities of the countries of the 39 region make it incumbent upon us to effect and expand trust and cooperation through bilateral and multilateral initiatives. We propose here the creation of a forum, with the participation of the Persian Gulf countries, to review and develop confidence-building measures compatible with the requirements of the region. The maintenance of security in the Persian Gulf is the responsibility of the countries surrounding this strategic waterway. Foreign Governments, which have often been the source of instability and insecurity in the region, should support collective regional initiatives for cooperation and refrain from sowing discord and tension and from other divisive policies to which they have historically resorted in order to preserve their interests and justify their presence. The efforts of the Islamic Republic of Iran to reduce tension in Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Kashmir and Karabakh and its consistent affirmation of the principle of respect for internationally recognized borders, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of others are in line with its overall policy geared toward the maintenance and strengthening of stability, security and economic development in the region. Our policy concerning Afghanistan has focused on efforts to prevent war and fratricide and on attempts to persuade warring factions to negotiate and reach understanding. In attaining these objectives we have had comprehensive and constructive cooperation with the United Nations and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. Meanwhile, we have continued our humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan and now act as host to about 1.5 million Afghan refugees remaining in our country. In efforts to settle the crisis in Tajikistan, while cooperating with the Secretary-General of the United Nations and organizing the second round of inter-Tajik talks in Tehran, we have continued our high-level contacts with the warring parties and others concerned. Last week, following an extensive mediation effort by Iran, it was possible to arrange serious meetings and negotiation in Tehran between the two parties, represented at the highest level. As a result, an agreement to halt hostilities and to release prisoners and war captives was signed by both sides in Tehran in the presence of representatives of the Secretary-General and the Russian Federation. In all these peace-making efforts we have welcomed consultation and cooperation with all interested States and international organizations to contain these crises and prevent or mitigate their disastrous humanitarian consequences. In Central Asia and the Caucasus, expansion and strengthening of relations in all spheres, particularly those of economic and cultural cooperation with neighbouring countries, are being vigorously pursued to facilitate and ensure sustainable development in the region, build an atmosphere of mutual understanding and consolidate stability. As a founding member of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO), the Islamic Republic of Iran is actively engaged in promoting free trade and joint ventures among the States members of this organization. Iran is hopeful that ECO’s observer status at the United Nations attained last year will help enhance collaboration between ECO and various United Nations organs and agencies. The Islamic Republic of Iran has also endeavoured to establish a Caspian Sea cooperation council that would ensure and monitor environmental protection and proper utilization of its resources by littoral States. These regional efforts have laid the groundwork for multilateral cooperation between Iran, Central Asian States and industrialized countries. Another major problem in the United Nations during the past decades has been the selective recourse to - and, indeed, manipulation and exploitation of - human concerns and anxieties to meet questionable political agendas. In this body a minority, whose past records are far from impeccable, have arrogated to themselves such concepts as human rights and democracy and systematically used them as instruments of political pressure without any basis in reality or any justification. Such an approach makes human rights subservient to political interest and is designed and is being followed solely to further political ambitions and impose the values of a specific group over the historical, political, economic, social, religious, and cultural values of others. At the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna and the recent International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, the failed attempts of a minority discontented with divine moral values to impose their ideas and ways on the religious majority illustrated the undisputed imperative for developing a clear and precise appreciation of and respect for divine teachings and values and religious beliefs. These two Conferences showed that a good number of States, particularly Islamic countries, cherish their religious values enough to attribute more priority to defending their divine values and Islamic teachings, which guarantee the moral and material health of our societies, than to political considerations; they resisted, in a united front, 40 any attempt to disregard, undermine or desecrate these values. For Muslims, the remarks made by the leader of the Norwegian delegation at the Cairo Conference were especially intolerable, insulting and simply erroneous. We repeat our call to the Norwegian authorities to take the necessary remedial measures, to refrain from repeating such statements manifesting religious intolerance and to begin to recognize and respect the rights of the majority of humanity, who believe in divine religions. By the same token, the dangerous phenomenon of lack of respect and tolerance for the values and beliefs of others is, regrettably, gaining momentum in Western countries against Muslim communities. This has resulted in the violation of their most fundamental human rights and in their being forcibly deprived of their basic right to maintain and practise the values and teachings of Islam. We therefore believe that greater efforts should be made to foster and promote understanding of, and respect for, the diverse values of different peoples and nations through, inter alia, constructive dialogue and the implementation of a strengthened system of consultation. A similar problem is manifested in the approach of the international community vis-à-vis the threat of international terrorism in all its forms. Political considerations and reluctance to prevent terrorist activities by groups whose positions correspond with the policies of certain hegemonic Powers have indisputably impeded international efforts with a view to eradicating international terrorism and are thus unjustifiable. How can the supporters of the overt official terrorism of Israel declare themselves champions of the struggle against terrorism and yet have the audacity arbitrarily to accuse others of supporting terrorism? Why do these countries prevent any meaningful action against the Zionist terrorist atrocities in the Ibrahimi mosque in Al-Khalil? How do they remain totally indifferent to, and indeed acquiesce in, the recent terrorist explosion that killed and wounded many innocent pilgrims in the holiest shrine in our country? In our view, the only way to combat terrorism is through a comprehensive, uniform and across- the-board campaign. We need to work together at the international level to eliminate this anti-human phenomenon in all corners of the world, regardless of the race, religion, ideology or political affiliations of the victims or of the culprits. Another important challenge facing the United Nations is the need for political realism and serious consideration of current and future socio-economic circumstances and their direct correlation with social stability and peace. Increasing social complications are directly linked to chronic economic conditions and the ever-worsening inequitable international economic relations at the expense of developing countries. Unless this correlation is acknowledged realistically and addressed responsibly in the decisions of international forums, and unless effective remedial measures are implemented with the necessary international support and cooperation, further exacerbation of international economic and social crises will continue to pose a grave and alarming threat to us all. It is thus imperative to utilize every opportunity to translate understandings into action-oriented programmes in order to bring about the needed improvement in the world social situation on the eve of the twenty-first century. Yet one must not forget that what prevents today’s United Nations from carrying out its economic and developmental responsibilities is not the absence of legislation or plans of action. Indeed, the main obstacle to the implementation of significant existing decisions is the glaring absence of political will and financial and technical resources. Therefore, the Agenda for Development should envisage explicit and practical mechanisms for the effective and expeditious implementation of these international agreements. The experience of the past five decades has demonstrated that because of the primacy of political considerations over humanitarian values and the principles of the United Nations Charter, it has not been possible to utilize properly the varied and unique potential of the Organization as a formidable instrument for enhancing international cooperation, strengthening understanding and trust, preventing and resolving crises and upheavals, facilitating economic development, battling social and international ills such as terrorism and drugs, reinforcing respect for the exalted dignity, worth and rights of human beings, and ensuring the common good. Preparations and planning for the second half-century of the existence of the United Nations should be conducted in full cognizance of this shortcoming, and with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of the Organization in carrying out those agreed tasks that are of interest and importance to the international community in its entirety. Old methods that have lost their credibility must be abandoned. New ways that are compatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter while corresponding to the changing international environment must be developed. The delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran reiterates its full readiness to offer 41 unreserved cooperation to Mr. Amara-Essy and to other delegations to achieve these goals. Let me join the representatives who have spoken before me in congratulating you, Sir, on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. You represent a country, Côte d’Ivoire, which has played and continues to play an active role in the framework of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and in the United Nations. You bring to the presidency vast experience in the area of international relations as well as diplomatic skill and acumen, which puts you in 13 good stead to steer the deliberations of the General Assembly to a successful conclusion. You can count on my delegation’s unqualified support and cooperation. I also wish to express my delegation’s sincere appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, who presided over the work of the forty-eighth session with great distinction and rare personal attributes. Our distinguished Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has continued to provide outstanding leadership in the discharge of his duties. Zambia is particularly grateful to the Secretary-General for his untiring efforts in pursuit of world peace and security, development and international cooperation. The past year has been one of mixed blessings on the international scene, a year of notable achievements and failures. In the view of Zambia, the most positive development of the year was the achievement of majority rule in the Republic of South Africa. My delegation is really delighted to see in our midst the delegation of a democratic and non-racial South Africa, led by President Nelson Mandela. President Mandela was the symbol of the liberation struggle in South Africa and it is therefore befitting that he, an icon of the liberation struggle, should become the first President of a new South Africa. The return of South Africa to the family of the United Nations is without a doubt due to the tenacity, uncompromising commitment and dedication of our brothers and sisters in South Africa who bore the brunt of the evil system of apartheid. At the same time, it cannot be denied that South Africa’s victory over apartheid and its rejoining the United Nations is a concrete manifestation of the seminal role played by this Organization. In order to consolidate the democracy achieved in South Africa and address the negative social and economic legacy of apartheid, substantial international assistance is imperative. In this regard, Zambia endorses the appeal made by President Nelson Mandela for international support to South Africa to enable the effective implementation of its reconstruction and development programme. A democratic, peaceful and prosperous South Africa will no doubt have a positive impact on southern Africa and the African continent as a whole. Indeed, South Africa’s contribution as a member of the Southern African Development Community has already begun to be felt and appreciated. It has, together with Botswana and Zimbabwe, also played a highly commendable role in the peaceful resolution of the constitutional problem in Lesotho. We have every confidence, therefore, that South Africa will contribute positively to the work of the United Nations. Africa has had a few other bright spots. We are delighted with the peaceful resolution of the territorial dispute between Chad and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. The positive developments in Burundi towards a peaceful resolution of the long-standing conflict are commendable. However, the situation remains volatile. There is therefore a need to sustain international engagement. With regard to Angola, it is indeed gratifying that the talks between the Government of Angola and National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), which have been taking place in Lusaka, Zambia, for the past eleven months under the chairmanship of the United Nations Secretary-General’s Special Representative, Mr. Alioune Blondin Beye, have made tremendous progress. We therefore look forward to a successful conclusion of the talks by the end of October, culminating in the signing of a peace agreement, by the middle of November 1994, on the basis of the Bicesse Accords, and the pertinent resolutions of the Security Council. In this regard, we take this opportunity to commend both the Angolan Government and the UNITA delegation for their seriousness and commitment to the task of finding a peaceful solution to their country’s fratricidal war. We also thank the observers to these talks, namely the United States, the Russian Federation and Portugal. Sustained international assistance to Angola will be necessary in the post-agreement era and Zambia will continue to assist the people of Angola during this period. In Mozambique, we look forward to the holding of the first multiparty elections, scheduled to take place on 27 and 28 October. We commend the Mozambican Government and RENAMO for committing themselves to the United Nations peace initiative and to the Rome Agreement. We applaud the role that the United Nations has played through its peace-keeping efforts and in helping to prepare the people of Mozambique for the forthcoming elections. As a gesture of solidarity with the people of Mozambique, Zambia has made a modest contribution to the United Nations peace-keeping operation. 14 In Malawi, we welcome the recent peaceful and democratic transition to a multiparty system of government. We endorse the appeal made by President Bakili Muluzi for international assistance to consolidate democracy and to assist in the reconstruction of the country. My Government also commends the technical and advisory services provided by the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat of the United Nations. Zambia welcomes the positive trend towards democratization on the African continent. Why should Africa democratize? Africa should democratize because it is our firm belief that democratic systems of government promote good governance, transparency and accountability in the administration of public affairs, independence of the judiciary, and respect for human rights and the rule of law. These qualities lay a firm basis for peace and stability and are thus conducive to sustainable development. We would therefore urge all of our development partners to take account of all these positive developments in the formulation of their development policies towards Africa. They should also endeavour to explain to their taxpayers the significance of these democratic changes and their correlation to sustainable development. The electorates of the North must be made to appreciate that it is in their enlightened self-interest to support developing countries. There is now much hope in Africa. Indeed, Africa, in the long run, holds the promise of a positive and prosperous future. In the Middle East, we welcome the positive developments in Palestine following the agreements and declarations between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel, as well as between Jordan and Israel. It is our sincere hope that progress can also be achieved in the negotiations with the Syrian Arab Republic and Lebanon. International assistance is urgently required for the reconstruction, rehabilitation and other essential needs of the Palestinians. We commend the efforts deployed by the leadership of the PLO and of Israel, their tenacity and their determination to work for peace. We also commend the crucial catalytic roles played by the United States of America and the Russian Federation as co-sponsors of the talks. The Kingdom of Norway also deserves our gratitude for its contribution to the peace talks. The sustained support and commitment of the Arab League to the peace process also merit special mention. On the other hand, negative developments abound in Africa and elsewhere on the international scene. These conflict situations continue to defy durable solutions through dialogue, reconciliation and negotiation, in stark contrast with the exemplary cases I have just cited. Thus, in our region, the civil wars in Liberia, Rwanda, Somalia and the Sudan torment us all because of our aversion to fratricidal and ethnic violence and the serious humanitarian crises they have engendered. In this connection, Zambia also strongly condemns ethnic violence wherever it occurs, including in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We deplore the further deterioration of the situation in Liberia. We regret the lack of progress towards disarmament, demobilization and general elections. We appeal to all the parties to commit themselves to the Cotonou and Akosombo Peace Agreements. We also wish to stress the need to maintain the Military Observer Group of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOMOG) in Liberia and to provide it with the requisite logistical support. As for Rwanda, we and the entire world community have been deeply shocked by the genocide and the most dehumanizing spectre of violence in that country, resulting in one of the worst humanitarian and refugee crises in the history of mankind. Zambia has expressed its strong condemnation of the genocide and mindless violence in Rwanda. We strongly feel that those responsible for the massacres must be brought to trial through an international tribunal. Conditions of peace, security, stability and confidence should be created in Rwanda in order to facilitate the repatriation of refugees from overburdened neighbouring countries. We hope that the new Government will commit itself to carrying out its declared intention to work for reconciliation, rehabilitation and reconstruction in Rwanda. Substantial assistance for humanitarian, rehabilitation and reconstruction purposes is thus crucial. The neighbouring asylum countries also need assistance. The role and efforts of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR) in creating conditions of stability and security in the country are crucial. We therefore deeply regret the delay in the deployment of UNAMIR troops to the level of 5,500 in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. In this regard, African countries have been ready and willing to send sufficient troops. However, the major constraint has been inadequate logistical support. 15 As a token measure, Zambia has contributed a peace-keeping contingent of civilian and military personnel to the UNAMIR operation, thanks to the generous logistical support, in materiel, from the Netherlands. Furthermore, the Zambian Peace Corps, a non-governmental organization, has organized activities to raise funds to purchase medicines, food and other humanitarian requirements for the displaced people in Rwanda. We remain concerned by the continuing crisis in Somalia and by the lack of progress. We note, however, the genuine efforts being deployed to resolve the crisis. Notwithstanding the difficulties, we strongly believe that the continued presence of the United Nations in Somalia is critical. In Sudan, the continuing civil war and factional fighting in the south and the deteriorating human rights situation nationwide are a cause of serious concern to us in Zambia. We urge the parties to reach a negotiated settlement. As to Haiti, Zambia reaffirms its support for the efforts of the Organization of American States and the United Nations to restore democracy and respect for human rights there, in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. With regard to Cuba, we reaffirm our belief that the time has come for the economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba to be lifted. We hope that our two friends the United States and Cuba will resolve their differences peacefully. In this regard, we are encouraged by the recent dialogue between the two countries. Zambia attaches great importance to the role of regional organizations in addressing conflict situations. In this respect we note with satisfaction the increasingly active role played by the Organization of African Unity (OAU), including at regional and subregional levels, to address the root causes of conflicts and to prevent, manage and resolve them. In particular, in June of last year the OAU established a mechanism for the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts in order for Africa to deal effectively with conflict situations on its own. For too long and too often, Africa has relied on external assistance to resolve its conflicts. The time has come for Africa to handle these situations resolutely. Conflicts continue to sap Africa’s energies, to waste its scarce resources and to retard its development. They must be eliminated in order to create an environment conducive to economic and social development. Zambia therefore appeals to the international community to contribute generously to the OAU Fund established to sustain the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. International support is critical to the effective implementation of this important initiative. It is warranted by the fact that the United Nations, through the Security Council, exercises primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. It is now evident that peace and development not only are interrelated but are indivisible. This has been brought into prominence by the comprehensive reports of the Secretary-General entitled 'Agenda for Peace' and 'Agenda for Development'. Indeed, in a number of conflict situations poverty and deprivation have been the underlying causes. There is, therefore, a compelling case to bring development and related issues to the centre stage of the United Nations, in order to promote the cause of peace in its most comprehensive perspective. We therefore welcome the Secretary-General’s preliminary report on the 'Agenda for Development'. My delegation fully supports the views of the Group of 77 on this subject, as reflected in its Ministerial Declaration of 30 September 1994. In particular, an Agenda for Development must be action-oriented and focus on the economic growth and development of the developing countries, especially the least developed amongst them. The Agenda for Development must strengthen the role of the United Nations in the area of international economic policy-making and coordination. Africa is in economic crisis. It continues to face grave economic difficulties. Africa therefore needs a favourable international economic environment for the promotion of investment flows, increased official development assistance, technological transfer, improved trade opportunities and better terms of trade. Africa further needs a viable and comprehensive solution for its huge debt burden. Such a debt strategy should include debt cancellation. In this regard, we fully support the positions of the Group of 77 and the Non-Aligned Movement. Zambia welcomes the conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the Agreement to establish the World Trade Organization (WTO) with effect from January of next year. It is our expectation that the World Trade 16 Organization will promote a non-discriminatory and predictable trading system and protect the rights and interests of the developing countries. In view of the increasing economic disparity between the developed and the developing countries, the WTO will not start on a level playing field. In this connection, it is the strong view of my delegation that the implementation of the Uruguay Round must be monitored constantly to ensure that the interests of developing countries are adequately protected. Compensation should be provided to those developing countries that are facing difficulties, particularly the least developed. Let me now address Zambia’s economic and political situation. On the economic front, we have followed, resolutely, a credible macro-economic reform programme whose main objective is to promote growth with stability based on an equitable allocation of resources. The main policy thrusts of the programme include strict control of the money supply and credit, with the aim of keeping inflation to minimal levels; liberalization of the economy with greater reliance on market forces; and implementation of the privatization programme, through which previously State-owned enterprises are to be turned into private concerns in order to reduce direct Government participation in the economy. Although these measures are expected to yield positive results in the long run, they have had some short-term negative effects, such as a drastic reduction in employment levels in the formal sector, a decline in income level, and a marked increase in both the level and the intensity of poverty, especially in the rural areas and among the vulnerable segments of the population. To cushion the poor from these adverse effects of economic adjustment, a social safety net has been created to assist those who lose their jobs or who are unable to meet their basic needs or obtain social services. It is going to be a long haul, but the Zambian Government is determined to rise above these challenges. I should be remiss if I did not express gratitude to all our development partners for the economic, financial and technical support rendered to our country. The support provided Zambia by our development partners will serve to underpin our structural adjustment programme, to which our Government remains committed. More importantly, such assistance will help to consolidate our democratization process, which we initiated in 1991 with the reintroduction of plural politics. In this regard, my delegation is pleased to assure the international community that Zambia’s democratization process remains firmly on course. There is a strong connection between the plan of action adopted at the Cairo Conference on Population, the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen early next year, and the World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing, next September. The World Summit on Social Development will be an opportunity for the international community to renew its commitment and political will to effectively address a number of social and economic problems. The contribution made by women to development efforts is very clear, although it is often underestimated. We therefore look forward to Beijing’s programme of action, which we trust will ensure the full and equal participation of women at all levels of human activity. With regard to the environment, the international community is faced with the major challenge of giving practical effect to the concept of sustainable development as reflected in Agenda 21. To do this, effective international cooperation is vital. In particular, practical steps must be taken to provide access to appropriate technologies and to mobilize new and additional financial resources for the countries in need: the developing countries. My delegation therefore calls on the developed countries to fulfil the solemn commitments undertaken at the Rio Earth Summit. At the same time, the task at hand is global and must thus be shared globally. It involves individuals, community groups, non-governmental organizations, Governments and financial institutions. In the language of the Earth Summit, 'common but differentiated responsibilities' (A/CONF.151/26 (Vol. I) Principle 7) is now imperative. Zambia attaches high priority to environmental issues. As a reflection of our commitment, we have formulated a National Environmental Action Plan aimed at integrating environmental concerns into our socio-economic development plans. We have taken deliberate measures to increase the level of public awareness of environmental issues, particularly through the active involvement of non-governmental organizations and community groups. My Government is firmly committed to the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We believe that it is the duty and responsibility of all Governments to do so, regardless of their political, economic or cultural systems. 17 In the aftermath of the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, we should work to implement its important recommendations. Accordingly, my delegation will support genuine efforts in this direction during the current session. My delegation welcomes the establishment of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the appointment of Mr. José Ayala Lasso to this high office. Mr. Lasso has already proven his suitability for the appointment, and we commend his important initiatives concerning human rights situations in Africa and elsewhere. My delegation also supports the strengthening of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights in Geneva. My Government has also established a Human Rights Commission, which is responsible for investigating alleged human rights violations in Zambia, including those committed prior to the reintroduction of plural politics in 1991. In the spirit of our policy of transparency, the Government will publish the Commission’s findings in a report to be made available to the general public. Zambia is thus firmly committed to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to other relevant international covenants and instruments. In the area of disarmament and arms control, my delegation strongly supports efforts to accelerate the elimination of nuclear weapons and to conclude a comprehensive test-ban treaty. We also fully support the review and extension of the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), which is scheduled to take place next year. However, we share the view that any extension of the NPT should be linked to progress on nuclear disarmament and to the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty. Zambia welcomes the significant progress achieved in the Geneva negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty. We further support the case for a convention on conventional weapons and welcome the introduction of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms with a view to promoting transparency and confidence-building. Zambia welcomes the successful conclusion during the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, of the agreement relating to the implementation of part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which opened the way for the universal acceptance of the Convention and its provisions. Let me now turn to the United Nations itself. As we meet in this session on the threshold of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, we have to recognize that the fundamental meaning of the United Nations Charter has remained unchanged; that the United Nations has undergone periods of both triumph and disillusionment; that the United Nations is still an international organization for the people as well as of the people and it is therefore supposed to be a democratic institution. It is now time to reflect on a United Nations that will serve mankind for another 50 years after 1995. It will have to be a new United Nations, one which will suit the exigencies of the twenty-first century. It will be necessary to sharpen the mechanisms that were established to give effect to the declared principles and purposes of the Charter. It is only by going through this metamorphosis that our Organization will be able to adapt to a changed and changing environment, to new demands, new opportunities and new challenges. In this connection, my delegation is of the considered view that expansion of the membership of the Security Council is extremely important. Regions of the world, such as Africa, that are not represented at the level of permanent membership should be so represented. It will, therefore, be incumbent upon those regions to agree on which country or countries should represent them as permanent members. Apart from dealing with the Security Council, we must fashion the United Nations in such a way as to accord a central role to issues of the development of the developing countries. The Economic and Social Council should therefore be attuned to meeting this challenge. We would like to see a stronger Economic and Social Council with a mandate adequate to coordinate the policies of all development programmes and activities, as well as the activities of the specialized agencies, including the Bretton Woods institutions, for the promotion of sustained economic growth and development. We now live in a world in which there has been a major recasting of international relations ranging from political to economic, environmental to humanitarian issues. In this new atmosphere, the United Nations is the linchpin of our collective security, the repository of our hope for progress and prosperity. In this atmosphere, the United Nations has no greater contribution to make in the service of its ideals than to help the world find its way from the era of fear from which we are emerging into a time of hope and progress for all mankind. We wish this great creation more success for the betterment of the entire world. I congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Malawi is proud of you and of your country, Côte d’Ivoire, as you represent Africa in that very important post. I have every confidence that you will guide the deliberations of the Assembly to a successful conclusion. I join other delegations in paying tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana. Mr. Insanally fulfilled his mandate very well indeed, despite the many difficult tasks the United Nations had to carry out during the past year. My delegation wishes Ambassador Insanally well in his future endeavours. The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has once again demonstrated that he is the right man to lead our Organization as it continues to assume greater responsibilities, particularly in the maintenance of international peace and security. The Secretary-General has ably led the Organization in responding most positively to the many conflict situations that beset the world today. My Government lends its support to his considerable efforts aimed at assuring international peace and security and at promoting economic and social development around the world. We wish him all the best in carrying out his arduous tasks. As I address the Assembly today, 30 years after the only time my predecessor did so, I bring with me a message of renewed hope and friendship from the people of a newly democratic Republic of Malawi to all the peoples of all the States represented here this morning. Freed from fears of itself, Malawi courageously embraces the rest of the family of nations; freed from self-imposed isolation, Malawi stands ready to engage actively in efforts to find international solutions to the problems of our times. Everyone here today will be fully aware of the political changes that have taken place in my country during the past two years. The one-party dictatorship that had ruled Malawi for 30 years came to an ignoble end by the will of the people. In the historic elections held on 17 May this year, the people of Malawi threw out an oppressive Government that had for so long trampled upon their human rights and fundamental freedoms with impunity, through arbitrary arrests, detentions without trial, and torture, a Government that brutally suppressed all political dissent and denied its people any form of freedom of expression and association. In so doing, it sought to rob its people of the very essence of a human being: the ability to think. The people of Malawi rejoin the family of nations today as a free people. Let me assure the Assembly that the Malawian people shall never allow any form of dictatorship to rear its ugly head on their soil again. The national referendum held in June 1993 and the presidential and parliamentary elections held in May this year took place in a peaceful manner, and have both been declared by the international community to have been free and fair. This outcome was a clear manifestation of the ardent desire of the people of Malawi to see change brought about in their country: positive change, where human rights and fundamental freedoms are enjoyed and respected by all, individually and collectively. The changes in Malawi resulted also from the concerted efforts and assistance of the international community. On behalf of the Government and the people of Malawi, I wish particularly to thank the United Nations for its special role in the process of reform and democratization in Malawi. The Electoral Assistance Division of the Secretariat here in New York, the Centre for Human Rights in Geneva and the office of the United Nations Development Programme in Malawi all worked tirelessly to help us set up the necessary institutional framework for bringing about the desired political change. Let me also thank the Commonwealth Secretariat, the Organization of African Unity, the friendly Governments and the non-governmental organizations that were involved in our transition process for the invaluable assistance they too rendered to Malawi during this very critical and delicate stage of our nation’s evolution. It is my sincere hope that our partners in the democratic transition will consider ways in which they can continue to work with the Malawian people as they confront the many serious problems arising from the excesses and vagaries of the discredited order they recently overturned. My Government is committed to consolidating peace, democracy and the rule of law in Malawi. We have emphasized that our struggle was not about personalities or individual leaders, but rather about changing the political way of life. It has always been the desire of the Government to work constructively, together with other parties, for the benefit of the nation. It is therefore pleasing that recently the Government and one of the opposition parties, the Alliance for Democracy (AFORD), reached an agreement that facilitated the appointment to the Cabinet of some AFORD members, including Mr. Chakufwa Chihana, President of AFORD. My Government has refrained from any form of witch-hunting or revenge against members of the former regime. No one in Malawi need ever fear for his life or liberty simply because he holds differing political views or beliefs. In this context, my Government will guarantee all persons accused of wrongdoing the opportunity to be heard in an open court of law. We have at the same time expressed our desire to see established in Malawi a culture of respect for human rights. In this regard, my Government has, among other things, recently signed with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mr. Ayala Lasso, who visited us in August, a Joint Declaration on the Mutual Desire to Cooperate in the Development of Programmes for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights in Malawi. Education in Human Rights has thus a prominent place in the programmes that are envisaged. This is because my Government firmly believes that the rule of law in Malawi can be consolidated if the people know and understand what their rights are. Basic human rights and fundamental freedoms cannot however be meaningfully enjoyed where people are living in conditions of economic desperation. The majority of the people of Malawi live in extreme poverty. It is for this reason, therefore, that poverty alleviation has been given top priority on my Government’s agenda. The focus on the alleviation of poverty is intended to help consolidate the freedom and democracy that Malawians currently enjoy. It is common knowledge that, out of a total in 1994 of 173 countries, Malawi is number 15 from the bottom on the scale of United Nations Development Programme human development indicators. This reflects our extremely low ratings in socio-economic indicators, covering areas such as health, social welfare, education, housing, food and nutrition. Malawi’s external debt is also quite high. At the end of June 1994, the external debt stock stood at $1.9 billion. Malawi’s balance of payments position is precarious. Its commodity terms of trade are deteriorating and are currently estimated at 72.3 per cent. 2 Meanwhile, Malawi continues to suffer from the effects of the severe drought of 1992-1993, which afflicted the whole of southern Africa. The country is once again experiencing serious food shortages, owing primarily to very poor rains in the 1993-1994 season. The country urgently needs nearly 400,000 metric tons of grain, mainly maize, if it is to avert mass starvation and death among the people. The HIV/AIDS pandemic has also adversely affected my country. The ones hardest hit by this scourge are the young and most productive segment of the population. The resources which my Government is able to allocate, in its national budget, for dealing with this problem are far from adequate: it wishes it could do more. Malawi continues to suffer also from the after-effects of the influx of refugees of recent years. The number of refugees from neighboring Mozambique, which once totalled over a million people, has now been reduced to nearly a quarter of a million. But it will take years, probably decades, to deal with the full impact of such large numbers. Many sectors of the economy, such as health, education, the basic infrastructure and the environment, have been adversely affected, with grave implications for the already serious poverty in the country. It is thus quite clear that fulfillment of the Government’s policy for the alleviation of poverty will be a major challenge indeed. The task ahead is enormous. Many sacrifices will have to be made. My Government is, however, determined to meet the challenges head-on. We have to try in order to succeed. In this context, my Government is working out a programme of poverty alleviation that will be flexible and implementable, and which can benefit from tangible and active assistance from the donor community. A Presidential Council on Poverty Alleviation, under my chairmanship, has been established to advise the Government on the actual implementation of the programmes envisaged. It is the Government’s intention that people in the rural areas should be the main beneficiaries of the poverty alleviation programmes. The programmes will also give special attention to the situation of children. Malawi is a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is the intention of the new government to translate the provisions of the Convention into reality for every child. The first step was the introduction, last month, of free primary education. To date, there are 3.2 million children in school — an increase of 1.3 million from last year. This truly is a children’s educational revolution. My Government is conscious of the need to empower women so that they can become active in all sectors of the economy and so that discrimination against women and girls may become a thing of the past. Efforts are under way to close the gender gap in primary and higher education and to ensure the participation of women in decision-making. We look forward to participating in the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995. Allow me at this juncture, on behalf of the Government and the people of Malawi, to thank, most sincerely, the United Nations system, donor Governments and agencies, and our many other partners in development for the invaluable assistance that they have given to Malawi since it attained independence. I have broadly outlined the problems and challenges that Malawi faces. I am very confident that our partners in development will continue to assist us as we forge ahead in our efforts to improve the standard of living of our people. I wish to appeal specifically for donor sympathy to write off existing loans made to the Malawi Government. I wish to assure you, Mr. President, that any assistance that is given to Malawi will be used for the purpose and target groups intended. The democratically elected Government should be given the chance to make democracy work. I also invite the private and public sectors to come and invest in Malawi. The investment climate in Malawi is very favourable, and opportunities exist in such areas as tourism, mining, finance and banking, and distribution. Malawi welcomes the efforts to redefine the role of the United Nations in matters pertaining to development. In this context, the report (A/48/935) of the Secretary- General, “An Agenda for Development”, is, in our view, very timely indeed. The priority areas for development outlined in the report deserve the political commitment, active support and tangible assistance of the international financial and donor community. The key and persistent problem areas of concern — external debt and debt servicing, poor access to science and technology for development, inadequate financial flows, rapid population growth, and problems relating to women and to social development — need to be tackled head-on. Africa is particularly afflicted by these problems and deserves focused attention. The crisis situation facing Africa calls for urgent and important measures, such as those outlined in the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in 3 the 1990s, which has yet to be implemented. These measures, as augmented by the conclusion of the Tokyo Conference on African Development, should be given active support. Malawi regards the recommended priorities for development in the Agenda for Development and the Programme of Action outlined in the New Agenda for the Development of Africa as being complementary and critical to the development of Africa. Malawi is all the more interested in these developments because they are exactly in line with the poverty-alleviation strategies that it has set for itself. Many positive political developments have taken place in Africa in recent times. The current wave of democratization has reached many parts of the continent, including the southern Africa region, and apartheid has been buried. Let me take this opportunity to congratulate the people of South Africa on their first truly democratic general elections, held in April this year, which ushered in the multiracial Government led by His Excellency Mr. Nelson Mandela. The present Malawi Government is pleased that South Africa has finally and proudly resumed its seat in the General Assembly and in all the other bodies of the United Nations, as a free country. The people of Malawi have close social, cultural, economic and other relations with the people of Mozambique; thus their joy is our joy and their sorrow is our sorrow. We are one people. We therefore welcome wholeheartedly the fact that the General Peace Agreement is so far being implemented satisfactorily. And as Mozambique moves closer to its first multi-party general elections later this month, it is our firm belief that the successful installation of a newly elected Government in that country will be a major accomplishment for the international community and southern Africa, in general, and for the Mozambican people, in particular. Such an outcome will give the people of Mozambique the opportunity to rebuild their country and truly embark on development after many years of vicious civil war. We wish the people of Mozambique every success as they draw nearer to the election date. The success of the peace process in Angola would be cause for great jubilation and satisfaction for my Government and the people of Malawi. For too long the people of Angola have been denied peace. They deserve to live in honour and dignity. They have a right to a peaceful present and a hopeful future. Peace in Angola would also be of benefit to the entire southern African region. Southern Africa requires peace, security and political stability to enable it to harness and direct its vast human and natural resources towards economic growth and sustainable development. We are thus encouraged by the indications of some progress in the peace talks that have been going on in Lusaka, Zambia, under the auspices of the United Nations. We fervently look forward to the conclusion of a mutually agreed final resolution to the longstanding political deadlock and armed conflict in Angola. The peaceful resolution of conflicts in other parts of Africa would give us in Malawi equal joy and comfort. Thus, for example, the situation in Rwanda has been a source of great concern to my country. We are, however, gratified that the horrible carnage we saw in Rwanda recently has since come to an end and that the cholera epidemic and the outbreak of dysentery in the refugee camps in eastern Zaire have now been brought under control. My Government is pleased to have made a modest troop contribution to the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR). In this connection, let me most sincerely thank the Belgian Government for providing the Malawi troop contingent in UNAMIR with logistical and other support. The task of the international community in Rwanda goes beyond humanitarian assistance. The world must, in the short term, undertake to assist Rwanda in the process of political settlement based on national reconciliation. In the long term, however, the major challenge for the international community and the people of Rwanda themselves is to find ways and means to resolve permanently the issues that breed and nurture the kind of intense ethnic fears and suspicion that have resulted during the past quarter of a century alone in over four waves of blood-letting, which seem to grow more horrendous on each successive occasion. My Government wishes to record here its support for the courageous efforts exerted by the people of Burundi to avert a similar situation to that which has consumed neighbouring Rwanda. It has been slow and painfully frustrating, but we believe that by having resorted to the negotiating table, and not to arms, the people of Burundi have taken the first step towards finding a lasting solution that will ultimately secure permanent peace for their country. We wish them well in this noble endeavour. My Government is greatly concerned at the apparent lack of a decisive response from the international community to the pitiful situations in Liberia and Somalia. We are also saddened by the fact that 4 inflexibility and dogmatism seem once again to have brought to naught months of painstaking effort in the search for a solution to the problems of Sudan. Our sincere hope is that the latest set-back will not lead to abandonment of the Sudan situation by the international community. My Government has followed closely the situation in Western Sahara. While the General Assembly has been seized of the situation in that Territory, we note with much concern that real interest in this issue appears to diminish every year. It seems that the Assembly has begun routinely to adopt resolutions that, in fact, are leading directly to international acquiescence in the status quo. We therefore call upon the international community, and in particular the United Nations, to live up to its responsibilities and fulfil its promise to the Sahouri people by acting without any further delay to hold the long-awaited referendum on that Territory’s political future. My Government has followed with equally keen interest developments in other regions of the world. We have been encouraged by the quickened tempo of the peace process in the Middle East, as well as by the flame of hope, albeit flickering, kindled by the first serious dialogue between the parties to the political deadlock over the Korean Peninsula. It is my Government’s hope that the dialogue that has been going on between the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China on Taiwan will lead to a solution that is mutually satisfactory to the parties concerned. At the same time, we have been deeply grieved by the situation in the former Yugoslavia, where some, with a seemingly perverted sense of fair play, would have us believe that if the victimized are prevented from defending themselves against the aggressors the conflict there can more quickly be brought to an end. Recently delegations from the United States and Cuba met in this historic city and, through negotiations unfettered by preconditions, were able to reach a mutually agreeable solution to a dispute that had heightened tension between the two countries. We believe that, through a similar approach, these two neighbouring countries could also resolve such differences as have divided them for nearly 40 years. Five years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and after the cold war was declared over, we can see no reason why these two great nations should not sheathe their cold- war sabres and embrace each other for the sake of peace and progress in their region. My Government therefore eagerly looks forward to the day when it can join the world in applauding the resumption of normal and friendly relations between Cuba and the United States. The founders of the United Nations set forth principles that have stood the test of time. The validity of the purposes of the Organization cannot be denied, even today. Malawi believes in the principles and purposes of the United Nations. In our view, this Organization, with all its shortcomings, still represents a viable option for addressing the many political, socio-economic and other issues that confront our world today. Working through the United Nations, we can all make our world a better place. The year 2000 is just six years away. Let us all work together to make the twenty-first century one in which respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for the rule of law are the rule and not the exception. Let us work together to emancipate our people from the socio-economic and other ills that hold them in bondage to misery in their daily lives. Let us work together to avert the escalation of conflict situations. The peaceful settlement of disputes remains one of the cardinal principles of this Organization and of international law. Let us make mediation a priority — mediation at any stage of a conflict. But, better still, let us use this Organization to find ways to reduce, if not to eliminate, the causes of conflict situations; to reduce, if not to eliminate, the means by which conflicts are fuelled and perpetrated. In making these humble suggestions, we are inspired by the preamble to the Charter. On the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Charter, let us resolve to make the Organization even more relevant for the next 50 years. Let us work to strengthen the United Nations. Let us make the organs of the Organization more effective, transparent and accountable. In this regard, we support the current efforts to reform the Security Council, provided that such reform is not at the expense of effectiveness. Let us all work together to rationalize the work programmes of the United Nations. Let the agenda of our Organization reflect the priorities of our time. The people of Malawi have embraced democracy and the rule of law, and they look forward to consolidating their recovered freedom. At a time when global interdependence has become a reality, the people of Malawi look optimistically towards a reform of this Organization that will ensure that it can more effectively 5 play its role in international efforts to achieve security and economic prosperity for all the peoples of the world. At this forty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, the African continent has every right to feel honoured in this great body. Through the brilliant election of its President, our Assembly has paid a tribute to the merits and the qualities of a great African diplomat. I would add that above and beyond the recognition so richly deserved by his country, Côte d’Ivoire, for its contribution to peace, we also find in his election a posthumous tribute to its founder, President Houphouët Boigny, that unforgettable monument of modern-day Africa. I would like to extend to our President the warmest congratulations of the Congolese delegation and to avail myself of this opportunity to pay a well- deserved tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, Ambassador of Guyana, who served as President at the forty-eighth session with such great competence and skill. My congratulations go also to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who since becoming the leader of our Organization has endeavoured with such dedication to bring our Member States closer to the purposes and principles of the Charter. On behalf of the Congolese people, I would like to reiterate to this humble servant of mankind our most earnest encouragement as he discharges his lofty responsibilities. Many peace-keeping and goodwill missions of the United Nations are currently to be found on African soil. We welcome this necessary assistance, while we hope that the peoples concerned will do even better in fostering conditions for a return to peace. Finally, how can one not feel overcome with joy at the triumphant welcome given the return of the Republic of South Africa to the commonwealth of free nations? This return, which puts the finishing touches on the liberation of the African continent from colonialism and racism, is surely a source of legitimate satisfaction for the Members of the United Nations who devoted so much energy and so many resources in the battle of the South African people against apartheid. To the delegation of that country that embodies the hopes of an entire continent, I would like to extend a warm, fraternal welcome. At the beginning of this forty-ninth session the Assembly faces a complicated situation that combines real reasons for satisfaction with extremely worrisome issues. A marked trend towards dialogue and cooperation in search of solutions to the problems that confront our world encourages our desire for a new system of international relations that would be more humane and more just. The United Nations has to its credit many achievements in the restoration and creation of peace. Conflicts that have been solved or are in the process of being solved give, little by little, faith and confidence in the future, indeed I would say to life, to those peoples who have been subjugated by despair, if not by the disturbing resurgence of civil wars, ethnic tensions and religious crusades. The abolition of apartheid in South Africa, which seemed impossible yesterday, is a reality today, as if to grant the wishes of the international community and to reward the strictures of the United Nations, a peaceful transition has given birth to a united, democratic and non- racist South Africa. A peaceful settlement to the question of the Aouzou strip has rid Central Africa of a fratricidal conflict. I hope the example of Libya and Chad will inspire other States as well. Firmly and resolutely, the dynamic of peace begun in the Middle East is growing stronger and is opening prospects for cooperation to peoples long ruined by war and yet fated by geography and history to live together. This is why, in hailing the significant progress achieved in this process, the Republic of the Congo hopes that we will see rapid progress in the Arab-Israeli negotiations with a view to the establishment of a thorough, just and lasting peace in the Middle East. But the hope offered by the progress that has been achieved remains frustrated by the persistence of local wars that continue their bloodshed in various parts of the world. Political differences and ethnic, racial or religious diversity, far from enriching society, have elicited intolerance, hatred, violence and, worst of all, the destruction of what is most precious to us all: human life. From Bosnia to Angola, the similarities are striking. Of these crises that conceal several basic questions, we see that a record number are in Africa: Angola, Somalia, Liberia, Rwanda ... The Republic of the Congo remains greatly concerned about the situation in its sister republic and neighbour Angola. We deplore the continuation of this fratricidal, murderous war, sustained by the intransigence and rigidity of UNITA. The Congolese Government 41 supports all peace efforts undertaken by the international community in the attempt to settle the conflict peacefully, especially as part of the Lusaka negotiations: negotiations in which Angola has made very constructive proposals that show the determination of President Dos Santos and his Government to find a solution that might take into account all the political sensibilities of that country. My country would like to reiterate its wish to see Angolans finally reach understanding and reconciliation, so that they can devote their energies to the rebuilding of their country, torn apart by a war that has lasted far too long. With regard to Liberia, we hope that the recent signing in Ghana of the cease-fire agreement by the various protagonists will lead to better prospects for that country. The genocide we have seen in Rwanda, another sad chapter in the history of mankind, is only the most extreme and inhuman manifestation of the problems facing Africa today. Violence, poverty, famine, disease, refugees, spiralling population growth - such is the widespread image of contemporary Africa. This well-known, gloomy picture no doubt stems from a habitual pessimism rather than from a thorough study of reality. The increase in the inequality between the richest and the poorest countries has grown more complex with the emergence of worldwide markets, trade, communications - even, unfortunately, pollution. Africa, long relegated to the background, seems to have combined all the social pathologies that inexorably strike ever-growing and ever- poorer populations. In our underdeveloped countries, chronic indebtedness and the drop in the prices of our basic commodities, compounded by the pernicious reduction in public aid for development and investments that continue to ignore our legislation, however attractive and liberal it may be, are worsening the disappearance of sources of financing and development. Here growth is slow to appear, whereas early signs already herald the beginnings of expansion in the world economy. The unemployed population is increasing, and workers are under a constant uncertainty. As if to complete this picture, natural disasters - drought and desertification - compete with epidemics such as AIDS and malaria. Infections we thought to have eradicated are reappearing. In this context of a disastrous economy, a population explosion has eliminated any hope of redressing the imbalance between an almost zero economic growth rate and a population growth rate that is out of control. This situation has destroyed all our efforts at recovery. Congo, for its part, has not escaped this common destiny. The socio-political crisis which has shaken my country to its very foundations and brought great grief to many Congolese families has to a large extent torn the social fabric and has completely ruined our economy. This crisis has at least had the merit of destroying many illusions. We had thought - or pretended to think - that it was enough simply to copy the old Western democracies and hold free elections under international supervision to ensure that democracy prospered, that it was unnecessary to take local realities into account. Surely the European Parliament learned a bitter lesson from its failure, because it said to the new democracies that peoples and Governments should find formulas which would enable them to create democratic, lawful institutions based on their own history and cultural identity. How can we claim that in two years’ time we have done away with the ills of 30 years of badly assimilated Marxist-Leninist culture, a culture which was fundamentally hostile to pluralistic democracy and fundamentally opposed to individual growth. And what should we say of the harmful effects of so many years of Marxist management of an economy that is today doomed because of that failure? Congo’s economy today is suffering from the disastrous consequences of ill-advised economic policies, which has given my country the honour of being placed among the most indebted countries in the world. In addition to this economic bankruptcy we find the waste, the ruin of our cultural and moral values, and a breakdown of the innate genius of our people. Insidious and pernicious, destitution and poverty have crept into the private lives of men and women, every day becoming more numerous, men and women who to survive must hide behind the ultimate bulwark of ethnicity, which has become a factor for segregation and division. Made idle and vulnerable, and subjected to chronic unemployment, our youth are now indulging in the illusion of drugs and the armed defence of dubious causes. 42 Thus, we see the scope of the consequences of so many harmful factors in a society where people have lost all sense of perspective. Violence then becomes the outlet for venting all sorts of political, economic and social frustrations. The outbreaks of violence in the Congo are the most absurd manifestation of this. We must rely on our traditional values to revive our dedication to dialogue and peace and hence realize how vain such extreme behaviour is - indeed, nothing more than human folly. We have given new life to the democratic process; we have started all over again. This is a process redirected towards democratic transition, the first stage of power- sharing; it is the result of a policy of administrative decentralization, one of the foundations of the development programme of President Pascal Lissouba. Today leaders of the opposition are mayors of Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire - the main cities in the country - and are thereby making their contribution to the national recovery. Congo’s experience highlights the challenges facing the new democracies, in particular young African democracies, which in order to build one nation must emerge from the condition of multi-ethnic States and one- party or feudal systems and pass on to full democracy with its corollary, a market economy. In order to meet these challenges, Congo has opted for a programme of economic and social recovery that is already under way. The programme involves the relaunching of our country’s development. Our bitter experience has led us to conclude that we must give pride of place to the economy in order to safeguard the young and fragile Congolese democracy and give it a solid basis, especially taking into account the crucial needs of our peoples, our own values and geopolitical realities. To fulfil this objective, the programme involves in its initial phase a structural adjustment programme concluded with the Bretton Woods institutions, a programme we are determined to carry out successfully in spite of the enormous sacrifices this will entail for our people. This must be done because we are determined to stimulate development and to revive hope among our people. We are banking on relaunching progress, but Congo cannot succeed alone. Africa is our salvation. Indeed, it is in the integration and complementarity of our economies that we should try to find solutions so that we can emerge from the grave economic and social crisis that has engulfed our countries, and especially relaunch our growth and development. Let us hope that the African States will be able to create the conditions for this complementarity, especially through the use of science and technology. This initiative gives a good idea of the crucial importance of the establishment of the African Economic Community. But in order to succeed this endeavour requires human as well as financial resources. In this connection, the international community is called upon to give resolute help to our countries in their efforts to find competent men and women who can promote development by their know-how, in the appropriate institutions. Development and the effective use of human resources are a decisive factor for the socio-economic development of our African continent. That is why, guided by this requirement of development, the Congolese Government has established the Panafrican Institute of Management and Innovation to train people in the management of resources, including human resources. For the initiator of this project, His Excellency President Pascal Lissouba, development cannot be defined solely in terms of growth; it must also be defined in terms of the ability to master the art of management. The second requirement of this endeavour is to fund it. In this connection, we are not relying only on financial resources - that is, a massive influx of capital into our poor economies. The economies would still have to be able to digest such capital. Above and beyond the generation of financial flows to our countries, what Africa needs above all is the establishment of a financial instrument, whose machinery would be brought into harmony with the other, existing instruments of international cooperation. This financial instrument, with the support of all the African countries, would obtain appropriate support from the international community, especially the Bretton Woods institutions. Thus, the African Development Bank is in our view the best institution to deal with the financial aspect and, furthermore, to study a system for funding science and technology for development. Today more than ever 43 before, science and technology are part and parcel of development; they are requirements of development. The favourable developments in the world political situation have given rise to the hope that a new era of peace will give the United Nations the role that its founders intended it to play. Everything - or almost everything - would seem to augur well for a new world order: an outpouring of freedom and democracy; a revival of the universal awareness of human rights; and the pre-eminence of the United Nations in resolving issues linked to international peace, development and security. Unfortunately, the psychosis of nuclear apocalypse characteristic of the cold war has given way to a violent, deadly expression of freedom and of local wars in a large number of developing countries, especially in Africa. We have already stated that economic frustration is at the root of these events. Therefore, peace and security in our States and throughout the world require a solution to our people’s economic and social problems as well as the transformation of the world economic system with a view to establishing a more just order. It is only then that we can have a true idea of the Agenda for Development and of its capability of meeting the expectations and concerns of the developing countries. The vagaries of the Rwandan tragedy, especially at the time when the critical decision was taken by the Security Council to withdraw the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR), should awaken the conscience of people everywhere and make them pause and reflect. The joint efforts of the United Nations and of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) were crystal-clear. The continent- wide organization, through its conflict-prevention, -management and -resolution machinery, had committed itself to continuing these efforts. My country welcomes the return of United Nations peace-keeping forces to Rwanda after a departure that had left us with the bitter feeling that the decision was inappropriate. Congo, in spite of its internal difficulties, from the very outset had felt concerned over the Rwandan tragedy. In a manifestation of fraternal solidarity, my country has taken part in all the humanitarian and peace-keeping operations in Rwanda, ranging from the OAU observer mission, UNAMIR I and operation 'Turquoise' to today’s UNAMIR II. In drawing conclusions from these tragic events, the 11 States of Central Africa, brought together in the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, have decided to create from among their respective armed forces a single peace- keeping unit. This unit, once set up, will take part in OAU and United Nations peace-keeping operations. Today more than ever, in that part of Africa so sorely tried by instability and civil war, this advisory committee would appear to be a valuable instrument for preventing crises and conflicts and seems deserving of the attention and support of the international community. The recent signing of a non-aggression pact among the States of the subregion is a most concrete example of this. This framework body for joint efforts for subregional peace and security, which my country will host in March and August 1995, will help, we are convinced, to prevent crises and conflicts and thereby lay the foundations for genuine peace and cooperation in Central Africa. In an international context where we still see certain conflicts, we must acknowledge once again the pre- eminent role of the Security Council, which safeguards international peace and security. The spectacular increase in the membership of the United Nations as well as the emergence of new political and economic forces the world over require an expansion of this body on the basis of equitable geographic representation. In so doing, we would only be abiding by the criterion of universality, which has always guided our Organization and which must be constantly adapted to newly emerging realities. Our destinies are bound to become increasingly intertwined, our horizons to broaden, and all this in a spirit of diversity, complementarity and solidarity without any will to power or domination. Increased developments in science and technology will result in a globalization of the challenges we must face. 44 May we be able to make the best possible use of the vast potential open to us, so that our long-suffering peoples will finally see the dawning of the era of peace and prosperity they so legitimately desire. I should like, at the outset, to express to Mr. Essy and to his friendly country my Government’s and my personal congratulations on his election to the Presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. We are confident that his abilities and skills will enable him to discharge his responsibilities in the best possible manner. I should like also to congratulate the members of the General Committee on their election to that body. On this occasion I cannot fail to express the appreciation of the delegation of the State of Qatar, as well as my personal appreciation, to Mr. Essy’s predecessor as President of the General Assembly, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, who represents the friendly Republic of Guyana, for his excellent leadership and the work carried out during his tenure. It is also my pleasure to extend our congratulations to those States that have recently joined our international Organization. We look forward to their constructive and effective participation in the activities of the United Nations and to their defence of its principles. In that context, I salute the delegation of the Republic of South Africa and that country’s great leader, Nelson Mandela, the first African President of the State, which, in this new chapter of its history, will undoubtedly be a new Member representing the African continent and the international community. We are convinced that it will play an outstanding role, for which it is eminently qualified by its stature, as well as by its expertise in all fields. I should like also to reaffirm the State of Qatar’s full confidence in and special appreciation of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his commitment and devotion in the service of this international Organization and for his efforts to uphold the noble principles of the United Nations and to promote its international peace-keeping and peacemaking role in dealing with international problems and crises. This is a role that will undoubtedly increase in importance. The General Assembly’s forty-ninth session is being held in the shadow of dynamic and rapid changes in international relations. These rapid dynamic changes have not yet reached their culmination. We are in a period of transition wherein new patterns of international relations are constantly emerging. It is a period in which the so-called new international order is being formed. The most important underpinnings on which this new order must rest are, in our view, respect for the principles and purposes of the United Nations and its Charter, in particular, the principle of sovereign co- equality, the willingness of States to honour their commitments in good faith, non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States, the control by States of their natural resources, the non-use and the absence of the threat of the use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of other States, and the resolution of international disputes by peaceful means in accordance with the principles of international law through mediation, dialogue or through the International Court of Justice. With the ending of the cold war, a new era has dawned in the United Nations. This international Organization is now being resorted to increasingly and more urgently. The United Nations mechanism is now squarely in the forefront of international efforts to face up to problems that in the past were intractable. Such problems are now being examined and debated in a serious manner in the United Nations and its specialized organs and agencies with the aim of finding suitable solutions thereto. In this regard, the State of Qatar believes that the United Nations and its specialized organs and agencies are the most appropriate framework for deliberation on issues relating to peace-keeping and peacemaking, the peaceful settlement of international disputes, questions of development and the forging of just and balanced economic and social relations. Given today’s challenges, there is no doubt that the solving of such problems should be the collective responsibility of all States regardless of size, if the solutions devised are to be compatible with the interests of the entire international community. Therefore, the State of Qatar supports efforts to restructure this international Organization and its bodies in order to make them more democratic and dynamic so that they may become more suited to the task of satisfying new international requirements and dealing with the challenges of peace, development, the issues of international peace and security, as well as economic and social issues. These issues are dictated by the radical transformations in the patterns of international relations. First of all, there must be a balanced relationship between the General Assembly as the principal political body, the Security Council as the body responsible for questions of security, and the Economic and Social Council as the 34 body responsible for issues of economic and social development. In addition, the General Assembly and its resolutions must be given a more effective role as a framework for deliberations and negotiations and for the adoption of resolutions on issues of international importance. This is fully in line with the commitment by all States to the principle of sovereign co-equality and the right of effective participation in the upholding of the common interests of the international community. No one State or group of States, regardless of stature or power, should monopolize the fashioning of the new international order in the absence of the United Nations, which is the true representative of the international community. Such a new order must be fashioned by all States collectively through the United Nations, whose stature and efficacy must be enhanced and supported as the only forum for international deliberations, the body responsible for international peace and security and the body that has the overall responsibility for economic and social development, the protection of the environment and of human rights as well as for combating drugs and terrorism. In this context, I should like to express my support for the statement in the Secretary-General’s report 'An Agenda for Peace' that democracy within the family of nations requires the fullest consultation, participation and engagement of all States, large and small, in the work of the Organization. I should like to refer also to the statement in the same report that the employment of preventive diplomacy requires prior knowledge of potential disputes, participation in peacemaking and peace-keeping, support for the agreements concluded and the taking of measures that aim at resolving the economic, social and political problems that led to the dispute in the first place. We welcome the positive developments in the role of the Security Council and its ability to perform the role mandated to it by the Charter, thanks to the new spirit of cooperation that emerged between its members and enabled it to take collective measures in respect of some very difficult and sensitive issues and to assume new responsibilities such as the expansion of its authority in respect of some peace-keeping issues through the administration of some areas during periods of transition and through the supervision of elections and the protection of human rights. None the less, we have some fears that the Council may become an institution that is used to impose the will of the strong on the weak. Therefore, we believe that the exercise by certain members of particular rights and privileges must not lead to hegemony by a limited number of strong States over the course of events in the world. Thus we believe that the question of membership of the Security Council must be dealt with in a manner that takes into account the large increase in the membership of the United Nations while putting some checks on the use of the right of veto. In addition, the international community must respect the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council. Political will must be mobilized to implement those resolutions, to impose peace if conditions so require, or to negotiate peace if there is good faith and if the parties cooperate. We believe that this is the guaranteed means of protecting the new international order and of ensuring its acceptability, credibility and stability. We hope that the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations will mark the rebirth of a new, stronger and more democratic body. In this regard, we are encouraged by discussions, within and outside the United Nations, regarding the restructuring of the Organization and its various organs. These are very constructive, serious and objective discussions, and all the States of the world are participating in them. The State of Qatar, proceeding from the wise instructions of the Emir, His Royal Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Hamad Al-Thani, and his loyal heir, His Royal Highness Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani, has always participated by all means in the solution of issues related to the Arab Gulf, as well as the Arab and Islamic nation. We have supported the Gulf Cooperation Council because it serves the interests of the Gulf States and their peoples. We, as part of the region, believe that our security is closely linked to the region’s. We have supported stability in the region and rejected every attempt to bring about regional changes by force. We believe that the security of the region requires cooperation amongst all its States on the basis of good- neighbourliness, mutual respect, non-intervention in internal affairs and respect for international law. We hold that all unresolved problems should be resolved by peaceful means, through dialogue, mediation or the International Court of Justice. 35 Proceeding from this principle, the State of Qatar supports the resolution by such means of the current dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran over the three islands of Abu Moussa and the two Tumbs. On the Arab level, the State of Qatar has continually called for the airing of issues in the Arab world and for reconciliation, in order to promote Arab solidarity so that the Arab Umma may resume its role in history and in the march of civilization. We have followed with the greatest concern the regrettable events in the Republic of Yemen. Since the dispute began, the State of Qatar has participated in diplomatic efforts to contain it. Despite the bloody and regrettable struggle, friendly Yemen has maintained its unity. As you know, from the beginning we have stood on the side of legality and unity in Yemen, and we have been eager to abide by these two principles in dealing with the issue, proceeding from our faith in the need to maintain the unity of the Yemenite territory and people. As for the situation in Iraq, our position is that the unity of Iraq and its territorial integrity must be maintained. Iraq must commit itself to the implementation of all relevant Security Council resolutions. It must recognize the sovereignty of the state of Kuwait and its territorial integrity, as well as its internationally recognized border according to United Nations Security Council resolutions. We also sympathize with the Iraqi people and call for the alleviation of their hardship, taking into account the acute shortage of medicines and foodstuffs. Concerning peace in the Middle East, we support the process and hope that negotiations will achieve concrete progress on all tracks, particularly concerning Lebanon and Syria. Last year, we welcomed the Palestinian-Israeli agreement as a landmark on the road to a just solution to the Palestinian question. We now welcome the subsequent steps taken, namely the early transfer of authority and the expansion of self-rule, both of which are important steps towards the achievement of a just and comprehensive solution to the question of Palestine. We also welcome the Jordanian-Israeli declaration as to the ending of the state of war between the two countries and the initiation of serious negotiations to resolve all problems, specifically those concerning water and borders. This declaration is also a landmark on the road towards a just and comprehensive solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, on the basis of the Madrid formula; Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973); the land-for-peace principle; the full withdrawal of Israeli troops from all occupied territories (the Golan Heights, the southern part of Lebanon, Jerusalem); the restoration of all inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, including the right to self- determination; and the creation of a State whose capital will be Jerusalem, as it is a symbol of peace and is part and parcel of the territories occupied since 1967. During the transitional period, the situation in this territory, particularly its demographic aspects, should not be changed. I wish here to reiterate the need to put a stop to the process of Israeli settlement, which is illegal and constitutes a major hurdle in the way of peace. Proceeding from this, the General Assembly should reaffirm, at its current session, all previous resolutions regarding the question of Palestine and the Middle East problem, and declare them unalienable. In order to push ahead the peace process in the Middle East, we participated in the multilateral negotiations. We indicated that those negotiations did not replace bilateral negotiations but complemented them, and that they would lead to nothing unless a just and comprehensive peace was achieved in the region. In this regard, the State of Qatar hosted, from 2 to 5 May 1994, the fifth meeting of the Working Group on Disarmament and Regional Security in the Middle East, which developed from the multilateral negotiations. The position of Qatar was stated as follows. First, support for all international efforts aimed at achieving agreement on disarmament on the regional and international levels, and support for the efforts of the Disarmament Conference in this respect. Second, the arrangements of arms control after the achievement of peace should be based on legally binding and co-equal commitments by all parties under international law and in conformity with the United Nations Charter. Third, arms control efforts on the international level have achieved remarkable success, particularly between the Russian Federation and the United States as indicated by the signing of START and all subsequent steps. Yet those efforts have not achieved any tangible progress in the Middle East, since one State continues to retain its nuclear capabilities. Fourth, all States are called upon to accede to the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and to agree to abide by its safeguards and subject their nuclear facilities to international inspections. The region must be freed from all weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems. In this regard, we wonder how the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency could decide to resume its technical assistance to 36 Israel, while Israel continues to reject the NPT and refuses to submit to its safeguards regime. We follow with great concern the situation in brotherly Somalia. We hope that national reconciliation will safeguard the unity, independence and stability of Somalia. On this occasion, we wish to support the decision by the Arab Foreign Ministers to set up an Arab ministerial committee that would monitor the situation in Somalia and work towards the desired reconciliation alongside the Secretary-General of the League of Arab States. As for Afghanistan, we express our concern over the continuing violence and call upon all factions to halt hostilities and work for a permanent and peaceful settlement that would give precedence to the interests of the Afghani people. Since the Second World War, Europe has not witnessed a tragedy such as that which is unfolding in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The suffering imposed on the Muslim people through the atrocities of ethnic cleansing, genocide and mass killings at the hands of Serb aggressors constitute crimes which far exceed all those committed in Europe in the course of the Second World War. Despite the fact that the Serbs reject the international peace plan drawn up by the five States and accepted by Bosnia and Herzegovina, no disciplinary action has been taken against the Serb aggressors, while the embargoes are still in place against Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the very least, the international community should enable the Muslims to exercise the right of self-defence, a legitimate right enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Once again, together with other members of the Islamic world we ask, why is it that there is all this procrastination in dealing with the Serbs, and why are they allowed to hold on to the land they have acquired by force and on which they continue to practice the atrocities of ethnic cleansing? The international community is called upon to deal with this matter firmly with no double standards and in a manner that would guarantee the independence and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina and guarantee for it an economic situation that may enable it to survive. This would certainly contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security in that sensitive region of the world. The State of Qatar reiterates its condemnation of this aggression and reaffirms the independence of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its territorial integrity, its sovereignty and its unity with and its one indivisible capital, Sarajevo. While we welcomed the resolution adopted by the United States Congress and agreed to by the Administration to lift the embargo against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have been surprised by the latest resolution by the Security Council, which included a relaxation of the sanctions imposed on Serbia and Montenegro, the State that stands beside the Serbian militias in their continuing aggression against the Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We believe that the said resolution will have grave consequences as it rewards the aggressor and the forces that support that aggression and constitutes a retreat in the face of aggression, massacres and continuing ethnic crimes. In this regard, we call on the Security Council not to reward aggression. We call upon it to discharge its responsibilities towards the protection of the Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina by declaring the entire Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina a safe haven. The Council must ensure that no military assistance is allowed to reach the Serbs. The Muslims must be enabled to exercise their legitimate right to self-defence by the lifting of the embargo on their country. Once again, we emphasize that the war criminals in the former Yugoslavia must be brought to justice and support the demand by the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) contact group on Bosnia and Herzegovina to be allowed to participate in all activities of the contact group of five. The world economy is slowly emerging from the state of stagnation which has lasted for far too long. A new period of varying degrees of growth has started, particularly in the third world. Numerous elements had contributed to that situation. Foremost among those elements was the burden of foreign debt which is being aggravated by the deterioration in prices of basic export commodities side by side with the paucity of foreign investments in the areas of production and the very high expenditures on armaments. The time has come for the international community, in particular the developed industrial States, to adopt effective measures that would make it possible to devise a definitive solution to the problems of indebtedness in the third world as a whole, and in Africa in particular. The debt burden in Africa has had many grave consequences which have affected the ability of the continent to grow and develop. Despite the many debt rescheduling agreements concluded over the past few 37 years, the servicing of debt continues to consume over 22 per cent of all export earnings and continues to obstruct investment and human development. In this context, the dialogue between the North and the South should be reactivated in a more effective manner in order to find new means to achieve development in the third world and to rid the third world of poverty and underdevelopment. We believe that ridding the world of poverty and underdevelopment is an essential prerequisite of lasting peace and the welfare of mankind. Undoubtedly, success in the dialogue between North and South and productive cooperation between them will promote efforts to reach a new more realistic and more balanced international economic order. The development of the South is not merely in the interests of its States and peoples alone, it is also in the interests of the North and its people. The developing world pins its hopes on international trade as a means of achieving prosperity for all. We therefore welcomed the recent success achieved with regard to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and hope that this success will result in the freeing of trade and of unrestricted competition in the world. The threats facing mankind today, and which will continue to face it in future, are not all political or military. There are questions of the deterioration of the environment, poverty, underdevelopment, drugs, the spread of life- threatening diseases, terrorism and violations of human rights which become more grave with each passing day. These non-political issues require urgent solutions before they become intractable and threaten all mankind. Among the indications of the international community’s concern with economic and social issues is the large number of international conferences devoted to such issues. Over the past two years, the world witnessed the holding of several such conferences, including the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, and next year the World Summit for Social Development will be held in Copenhagen. Each one of the conferences that have been convened has achieved results with regard to the issues it has dealt with by means of resolutions and recommendations and the international consensus surrounding those resolutions and recommendations. All we wish for here is that those issues should not be used as a pretext to intervene in the internal affairs of States, to deal with States in a discriminatory manner, or to impose conditions on providing economic or developmental aid. I refer in this connection to the idea of a carbon tax, whether individual or collective, under the pretext of protecting the environment. This is purely an economic issue which will harm the economies of oil-producing States, particularly those in the Gulf. The State of Qatar reaffirms its support for the United Nations efforts to deal with the issues I have mentioned. The United Nations is the ideal institution to face up to international and world issues with all their political, humanitarian, economic and social dimensions. Inspired by the Charter, it can achieve success by building a world based on relations of cooperation and mutual confidence, a world of justice and stability. At the dawn of the twenty-first century, our planet is seeking a new world balance. Five years have passed since the struggle for world hegemony came to an end and the arms race became less frenzied. Unfortunately, the problems afflicting mankind remain unchanged: death, disease, war, famine, poverty, hotbeds of tension, and the tragic wandering of entire populations. The East-West blocs have been replaced by North-South blocs. The wealthy North is worried because the poor South is a threat to its serenity and comfort. Far from making the international climate better, the end of the cold war has unleashed instability in the southern hemisphere. Our world is facing a threefold crisis — political and economic crises and a crisis of human society — which is sorely testing international solidarity and the interdependence of States. The many hotbeds of tension in Latin America, Europe, Asia and Africa arouse anxiety and concern in our Organization. A number of ideas have been put forward to check these evils on a global scale, with greater or lesser degrees of success, but we feel that the best approach lies in the old saying: “An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure”. Preventive diplomacy seems to us to be decisive in maintaining and promoting peace, as recent world history shows. Indeed, it is clear that many current conflicts might have been avoided had the international community involved itself in time to prevent them from worsening. For obvious reasons, I should like to dwell on the crisis in Rwanda. A review of the roots of this tragedy shows that the implementation of preventive diplomacy could have prevented it or at least mitigated its effects. If we go back to the earliest manifestations of the ethnic conflict between Hutus and Tutsis, we see many opportunities to resolve it which the international community passed up. But let us look at recent history. It is clear that if the parties involved had respected the Arusha Agreements, the Rwandese tragedy would not have taken on its current dimensions. It is equally clear that the international community could have guaranteed respect for these Agreements. Moreover, the presence on Rwandese soil of foreign and international troops shortly before and during the massacres could have prevented them. The Zairian delegation has recalled the past so that we can learn the lessons it teaches for present and future problems. What are these problems? Millions of Rwandese left their country and took refuge in neighbouring countries. This mass exodus caused immeasurable damage and created extremely serious social and economic imbalances in those countries. Zaire, for instance, had to absorb nearly 3 million people in less than three months. The little city of Goma, with a normal population of 200,000, on 14 June alone took in 10,000 refugees a minute. The modern world has never seen such an uprooting of populations. The effects of such a situation could only be tragic: the swamping of infrastructures, the re-emergence of endemic disease, housing shortages, the devastation of crops, environmental destruction, disputes among people living in close quarters, insecurity, and countless other examples. In addition to all this, the nationality problem is worsening — and it was already a matter of concern in that part of Zaire. The current situation in countries bordering Rwanda meets all the preconditions for preventive intervention by the international community. Of course, it is already engaged in humanitarian operations on behalf of the 15 refugees. My delegation takes this opportunity to thank all the countries and organizations involved in these operations. France in particular deserves a special tribute for having saved so many lives in “Operation Turquoise”. But it is high time that the international community moved beyond the humanitarian aspect towards a solution of the fundamental causes of the Rwandese tragedy and its effects on neighbouring countries. These causes relate to the displacement and presence of refugees in countries that are in no way equipped to take in such human masses. Thus the solution lies in the return of refugees to their country of origin. Yet we note that none of the countries directly concerned by this phenomenon can cope on its own with the situation without assistance from the international community. Let us take the case of my country and of Rwanda. The tragedy of Rwanda, which occurred shortly before the installation of our current Government in Zaire, could benefit only from stop-gap measures on the part of our Government, given the already disturbing situation of the economy in Zaire — and the problems remain unsolved. From this rostrum, Zaire issues a fervent appeal to the international community for support equal to the difficulties experienced by our population. We know that the return of refugees to their countries is being thwarted by various factors: their administrative and political organizations were reconstituted in the camps; the militia, who are difficult to identify, and the former civilian and military authorities, are intimidating the refugees; the commitment by the new masters of Kigali to persuade their compatriots to embark on a voluntary, secure return seems inadequate, to say the least; in an effort to respect the spirit of the relevant Organization of African Unity convention on refugees, the Government of Zaire, with no means, is confronted with enormous difficulties in trying to remove the former soldiers from the borders. All of these factors should lead the international community to realize the gravity of the situation — particularly as the evolution of the Hutu-Tutsi conflict risks swinging back and forth: today we are witnessing a mass return to Rwanda of Tutsi refugees who were driven into exile 30 years ago; if the international community is not careful, however, tomorrow we will witness another tragedy in Rwanda, this time tied in with the return of the Hutu refugees. It is thus urgent that the world help these two ethnic groups to learn how to live together again in harmony. We believe that solutions to the tragedy in Rwanda should include the four following elements: power sharing between the parties involved; the establishment of a multi-ethnic army; the establishment of guarantees for the safe return of refugees; and assistance by the international community to the countries of asylum and of origin. Having sketched out the very dark and disturbing picture of the situation that prevails in the Great Lakes region, I would now like to turn to the situation in my own country, Zaire. Situated in the heart of Africa, Zaire is a country in deep crisis. Since the beginning of this decade, Zaire has been experiencing a serious institutional crisis, punctuated by individual events which have contributed to destroying all the basic balances of our economy. Our country just barely averted a crisis which could have been comparable to the one in Rwanda. As we know, the democratization process initiated in Zaire on 24 April 1990 was one of the most tumultuous of the entire African continent. A national conference which lasted almost two years was unable to reconcile the political actors. National unity was harmed by the reappearance of centrifugal and sectarian movements. Ethnic tensions erupted here and there throughout the country. In short, we might well have experienced the same phenomena of massacres and mass displacements of populations we deplore in Rwanda. Zaire succeeded in averting this great tragedy owing in large part to the timely assistance provided by the international community. We do not wish to minimize either the wisdom and the work done by the internal forces in Zaire, or the ongoing support from what we call the troika: the group of countries consisting of Belgium, France and the United States of America. We should also like to recognize that it was under the good offices of the Secretary-General of our Organization that meetings were held that brought together all of the political trends in Zaire. The results of these meetings were of major political importance because they put an end to the duplication of 16 constitutional texts as well as of institutions of transition towards a new democratic republic. On 11 July 1994 the transitional parliament established a Government which represents the majority of the people of Zaire. This Government intends to conduct the nation’s politics exclusively through parliamentary control. In Zaire as elsewhere, democratization is a lengthy process which requires considerable material and financial resources. I am thinking not of the resources needed at particular moments — for example to organize and hold free and transparent elections. I am referring to the substantial resources needed to stabilize the economic and social environment, which will provide the framework for democratization. This stability has long been ignored, but today is increasingly being recognized as the prerequisite for progress towards democracy. If this is truly the case, then many countries in Africa and throughout the world have small hope of completing their democratization, or at least of completing it within a reasonable time-frame. For in these countries, politics are grossly distorted by ills such as poverty, malnutrition, ignorance, violence and so forth. When a country relies only on its national efforts to resolve all of those ills, it very quickly gets locked into a vicious circle which only exacerbates its problems. The second crisis facing mankind is economic in nature. This crisis dates back to the 1970s and derives from fundamental inadequacies in the economic system established at the end of the Second World War. The granting of independence to countries that were colonies at the time completely changed the international situation. This crisis derives from structural lacunae and from the imbalance in interdependent areas such as those of commodities, trade, energy, currency and finance. For this reason, we would propose that the concept of preventive diplomacy be transposed into the economic area. This would imply action being taken on the part of the international community to deal with the imbalance in a national economy before that imbalance leads to a widespread social crisis. Socio-economic conditions have worsened considerably in Zaire since the beginning of democratization. In the last five years, the basic balances of the Zaire economy have been completely destroyed. As a result, there is a particularly acute economic and financial crisis. This economic crisis has been accompanied by a profound moral crisis, which has led to plundering and systematic destruction of the economic fabric. It goes without saying that such an economic situation can hardly lead us to the blossoming of democracy, due to its negative impact on the living conditions of citizens. It is equally obvious that Zaire cannot emerge all on its own from this situation. The current Government has of course included in its programme specific short-term measures to slow down somewhat the continuing deterioration of social conditions. But these measures and the Government’s recovery plan as a whole can be effective only if they are supported by strengthened cooperation between Zaire and its bilateral and multilateral partners. However, as is known, this cooperation has been suspended, and most of Zaire’s partners are making the resumption of such cooperation conditional on tangible progress being made towards democracy and progress in economic management. Thus, we find ourselves faced with a complex conditionality. The assistance my country needs to move towards democracy and good management is made conditional on the prior achievement of democracy and good management. My country is not an isolated case. This kind of conditionality is increasingly a determining factor in cooperation between developing countries, particularly in Africa, and their multilateral and bilateral partners. In other words, many countries today are confronted by a vicious circle that obstructs their access to the resources of the international community. Our Organization must find some means of breaking this circle because the survival of vast numbers of the world’s citizens — if not that of the human race as a whole — is at stake. It is important to note that the search for these means must lead us off the beaten track so we can find new and imaginative paths. In our search we must create new solutions, such as those that made it possible to rebuild Europe after the Second World War. The third ill afflicting the world today is the crisis of society. Human society is falling prey to the re- emergence and supremacy of force and violence over the 17 rule of law in relations between States, in contempt of all the rules of good conduct. Two thirds of the human race suffers from hunger, endemic disease, malnutrition, undernourishment, unemployment, lack of information, acculturation — in short, total underdevelopment. The political and economic crisis also has a negative effect on society. The Government of which I am the head is a Government of transition between an old order and a new, emerging republic in which we will recognize every citizen’s right to freedom of thought, expression, association and movement, a new republic where justice is independent, where the police and the army must serve to protect the citizen, a new republic where the press is free. My Government intends to make respect for human rights in Zaire one of its fundamental priorities of action. From this rostrum I make an appeal to the specialized agencies of our Organization to share their enriching experience with us and to help us effectively in realizing our aims. The establishment of institutions for our new, resolutely democratic republic will involve the organization in the near future of free, transparent and honest elections. My Government hopes to see the United Nations community join Zaire in this last stage of our long journey towards our goal — a State of law — by assisting in the preparation, organization and monitoring of these elections at all levels. Before concluding, I would just like to express to you, Mr. President, the great satisfaction my delegation feels at seeing you presiding over the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. We are all aware that your election is a tribute to your country, Côte d’Ivoire. But it also represents the international community’s recognition of your qualities as a statesman and knowledgeable diplomat. Your competence and experience are without any doubt a guarantee of the success in our work. We also wish to congratulate all the members of the General Committee. I would be remiss if I did not say how greatly my delegation appreciates the way in which your illustrious predecessor presided over the forty-eighth session. We extend our best wishes and our support to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his commitment and his tireless efforts to promote peace and respect for human rights. I wish to take this opportunity to pay a warm tribute to the people of South Africa for their political maturity, which, along with the assistance of the international community, made it possible to do away with apartheid and to bring democracy to that country. It is with great joy and genuine pleasure that, on behalf of the Government and the people of Zaire, I congratulate the new, democratic, multiracial Republic of South Africa on its return to the United Nations. Finally, I should like to congratulate the political leaders of the State of Israel and of the Palestine Liberation Organization, as well as all those who served as mediators, for their contribution to a comprehensive and definitive settlement to the conflict in the Middle East and the question of Palestine. To sum up, I would simply say that I came here with three messages. The first one is that of the interdependence of nations in mutually beneficial cooperation and with no exclusions. My second message is that, in its action, my Government attaches the highest priority to the swift establishment of a new Zaire, a State of law where fundamental freedoms and the rights of citizens will be the major concern of those in power. My third message is a call for the effective implementation of the concept of preventive diplomacy to promote peace and eradicate poverty in the world. The delegation of Belize warmly congratulates you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. We are proud that such an illustrious son of Africa has been selected to preside over our deliberations in this period leading up to the celebration of the Organization’s fiftieth anniversary year. Permit me too to express my delegation’s thanks and praise for the sterling performance of your immediate predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana. Once again we gather to review the state of world order. And of the year just past it might perhaps be said that it was the best of times and the worst of times. On the one hand, a jubilant South Africa kept its rendezvous with freedom and now appears to be bathed in sunlight. Furthermore, the peace in the Middle East, presaged by the Agreement on Palestinian self-rule, is taking root. Tension on the Korean peninsula has eased, and the cease-fire in Northern Ireland represents a hitherto unimaginable breakthrough. On the other hand, the pall of nuclear weapons still hangs over our fragile planet. So does the gloom of conventional armaments, the din of battle and the smell of rotting flesh in the Balkans, parts of our beloved Africa and western and central Asia. In particular, the scale of the tragedy in Rwanda has been incomprehensible. The initial paralysis of will of the world community, our belated response in the face of horrible genocide, has not been our finest hour. That hesitation, that failure of leadership, underscores the need for the United Nations system’s preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping mechanisms to be better developed as a matter of urgency. The fact is that there is still rampant lawlessness abroad on our planet, and we continue to be traumatized by the death and destruction it brings. In particular, the living hell of refugees, fleeing almost inconceivable conditions of terror, seems to have become a stock feature of our end-of-the-century international existence. In this sort of depressing world political climate, even small countries such as mine must do what we can to ease the pain. Thus it was that Belize became the first small State to agree to participate in the multinational force currently overseeing the end of tyranny in Haiti. We took seriously the Security Council’s particular invitation to regional States and hope now that the collective response will succeed in giving our beleaguered sister republic surcease from its unhappy history and a chance of lasting peace and true democracy. We salute the Haitian people and we congratulate President Aristide. We expect soon to be able to send our messages of congratulations direct to the presidential palace in Port-au- Prince. In Belize’s own neighbourhood, the redemocratization of the Central American isthmus continues apace. In the last year, the free elections and orderly transitions of power that have taken place in Panama, Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras have vindicated our new-found, or rather rediscovered, destiny. In Guatemala, a plebiscite, congressional elections and the Oslo Agreement between the Government and the Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca (URNG) guerrilla group have strengthened the internal order. Furthermore, that country has undertaken, in its letter to the Secretary- General (A/49/94 of 14 March 1994) to abide by pacific principles and good-neighbourliness in its relations with my country. As a Member of this Organization, with our historical and constitutional land and sea borders universally recognized as inviolable in accordance with the principles of self-determination, sovereignty and territorial integrity, Belize welcomes this Guatemalan commitment. It is a further encouragement to regional peace. Talking of peace, we note with interest the development of the concept of stand-by forces. This idea needs to be deepened and refined, and arrangements should be made for appropriate training in regional training centres. In this regard, Belize’s offer to serve as one such locale, making special use of our jungle terrain and facilities, is a matter of record. 4 This Organization must be allowed to develop an agency for rapid and effective military deployment. Again, we call for the implementation of Article 43 of the Charter. What we are saying is that security and world order must be significantly improved. Mankind and the vision of our founders must be vindicated. In that light, we reiterate the call we made during last year’s debate for reform of the Security Council. Since that time, we have refined our ideas on that subject. These include our proposals that certain developing countries, on account of sheer population numbers and geopolitical realities, should be permanent, or indefinite, members; that contributions to the peace-keeping budget should be a relevant criterion for permanent, or indefinite, membership; and that, in both existing categories of membership, adjacent States should be permitted to pool their resources as composite or constituency members. We now call upon all the members of this Assembly to ensure that, by the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, we shall demonstrate our commitment to world order by democratically bringing the Council to a better state of grace. Another aspect of international order that deserves mention is that of the number of entities which are not fully embraced by the notion of universality in our Charter and which do not participate completely in the system of international order. These entities are mostly in or around the Asia-Pacific region, the Atlantic, the Mediterranean and the Caribbean. We call on all parties in good faith to continue their various dialogues to resolve this issue. To contribute to this restructuring of world order, we are in the process of finalizing a massive new economic dimension with the conclusion of the multilateral trade negotiations, the establishment of the World Trade Organization, the development of new mechanisms for the resolution of trade disputes and the deepening and widening of the system of norms relating to international commerce. We applaud the transformation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and these other advances, while urging that the less well-endowed countries receive their due, both under domestic jurisdictions and laws and in adjudications by the new organization. Rampant unilateralism and protectionism must now take a back seat. We are satisfied at the expansion of the institution of non-discrimination into such new areas as trade in services and trade-related investment measures. We are also happy that dumping and subsidies regulations have now been significantly improved and that progress has been made in the trying area of safeguards. We hope, however, that the thread of liberalism that runs through these new instruments will not become a noose to suffocate those of us that did not inherit a head start. We therefore call for sensitivity in the application of those various provisions for special and differential treatment of such countries. In the same vein, we would wish for increased sensitization on the part of the Bretton Woods institutions. Even as the global order swings to and fro, we call for improvement of the various mechanisms as they affect our sensitive economies. In Belize we have begun our own adjustment process. This is necessary if we are to cope with the initial dislocations to small economies, which will be the inevitable consequence of the new international trading realities. As well, the profligate behaviour of the central Government between September 1989 and June 1993 had resulted in an unmanageable deficit, precipitously declining reserves and imprudent short-term, high-interest foreign borrowing. So we seek now to restore fiscal discipline and regain macro-economic stability. We are also intent on removing the traditional distortions inherent in the domestic trading regime, and on instituting tax reform that will eliminate our overreliance on import duties. This is a process that we must manage carefully, since drastic reductions in public expenditure and trade liberalization will work initial hardship on our local economy. In this context, the Bretton Woods institutions have a duty to respond to our special circumstances. Support for our public and private sectors must be forthcoming, for the brave new economic world that we must enter, whether voluntarily or otherwise, will no doubt prove a most inhospitable clime to those not clothed with the requisite garb. In particular, the funds for skills training, human resource development and poverty alleviation must be found. Our young people are already hostage to the subculture of violence perpetrated as much by the television images transported undiluted from the first world, as by the indigenous problems peculiar to our small societies. The hope-extinguishing cycle of alienation, joblessness and incarceration must be broken. Otherwise, those nice new economic edifices we are so carefully constructing will come crashing to the ground, undone by the confrontation and social chaos that continued marginalization of our youth will surely engender. 5 We repeat, then, that small, hitherto hardy, democracies must not now be swamped by a heedless forward march of soulless economic principles. And the case for urgent Bretton Woods social and economic assistance should be even more compelling in the instance of voluntary, vis-à-vis imposed, structural adjustment. We are somewhat embarrassed that, almost 50 years on, this journey into a putative glorious world order just now sees us seriously crafting new substantive agendas for what are really some very old problems. Yet, we must deal with reality. The development decades and the new international economic order were, in part, chimeric or exercises in rhetoric. But I believe we are truly now engaged in writing a new, coherent, agenda for development. Let it be a properly annotated agenda. In fact, let it be a fully programmed model that entirely anticipates what lies ahead. We are grateful that this Organization is also taking note of the unfulfilled promises of the Second World War order. It is now 53 years since the call for social justice went out in the Four Freedoms and the Atlantic Charter. Yet we are far from freedom from want and improved social security. Now, with the recently concluded Conference on Population and Development, and with the World Conference on Women and the World Summit for Social Development just before us, the opportunity is here again. Let us seize it and develop bold concepts and effective normative systems. And while we do so, let us continue to develop such recent notions as those relating to the relief of children in difficult circumstances. Let us also develop this Organization’s capacity for technical assistance in crime prevention and interdiction to those United Nations Members which are increasingly beset by the scourge of violence, weapons and narcotics. These plagues are, almost invariably, brought on by demands and excesses imported from thousands of miles away, mostly with the aid of the electronic media. Another area in which we are still in the agenda stage is that of humanitarianism. Despite unfair criticism, the Secretariat has done what it could to carry out the promises made in the Charter. We commend all concerned with the establishment of the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, and we pledge to work beside them. Another relatively recent watchword is sustainability. It has a redolence to which we have all taken with alacrity. It warns the well-endowed of the truth of the adage 'Waste not, want not'. It reminds the less fortunate to try to resolve their dilemma wisely, as necessity obliges them to reduce their woodlands while leaching the present vitality of the land. It has brought us out of our slumber and humbled us into sincere discussions about fish stocks, fragile low-lying developing small island and coastal areas, and global warming. We have seen the Commission for Sustainable Development and the Global Environment Facility take their faltering first steps. While they are to some extent further examples of the somewhat unstructured way in which the Organization is sometimes obliged to operate, we nevertheless commend those agencies. And we sincerely hope that sustainability will keep us whole. Another area in which the Organization has been discovering its role is human rights. We all recently participated in the stimulating exercise of establishing the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights. We have seen the number of instruments on that subject increase. Human rights bodies have become more experienced and effective. Even in the field of population and development, we notice how the recent Cairo Programme of Action uses human rights as its main point of departure. It is striking that, in places, that document alphabetizes the basic species of human rights. So did the Assembly’s resolution establishing the post of High Commissioner. We did this to stress the non-selectivity and neutrality of the various genres of human rights. That is to say, cultural, economic and social rights are as much our concern as civil and political rights. The coincidence of development with population and other concerns in the Cairo document, and the stress of the right to development both in the resolution establishing the post of High Commissioner and in the Cairo document, underscore the coequal importance of that category of right. I believe that we are now seeing the beginning of the concretization of international concern about a wider range of human rights for individuals and, I beg to stress, groups and peoples. Above all, these recent developments in the field of human rights, sustainable development and social justice are pointing us to the reality that values must become an integral part of statecraft and of diplomacy. Only by inculcating respect for values will our world straighten up and fly right. In our fledgling world order, my subregion of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) has begun to show signs of coming of age. We have established several new structures for subregional integration and cooperation. We recently joined our friends and neighbours in the 6 non-English-speaking Caribbean and proximate mainland areas in signing a treaty to establish an ambitious Association of Caribbean States designed to bring about coordination, concentration and cooperation in our far-flung proto-region. Even before this, CARICOM had begun to develop separate cooperative relationships with Central America, Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela. In all of these endeavours, it has become more widely noted that Belize is ideally situated to assist with this bringing together of various subregions. We are equidistant from Tijuana and Paramaribo and, in other respects, are at the very centre of this new Caribbean. Belize is bilingual and multi-cultural. Besides, Belize has a history and a polity which well equip us for this role. We earlier referred to the issue of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council. This is an important aspect of the world order. It is also the quintessential example of the need for reform and revitalization of this Organization. The General Assembly’s health is generally quite good. However, in some respects it needs improvement. One such area is the roster for this general debate. The annual seating arrangements for our numerous members are made quite democratically and scientifically. Yet the order of the list of speakers in this debate is not fixed in quite the same manner. What is the justification for annually placing certain nations at certain positions at the end of the list? I remember that the Christian Bible makes flattering references to what comes 'Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings' (The Bible, Psalms 8:2). Similar expressions can be found in every philosophy and religion on this planet. It is time that this be learned and observed by those who prepare the annual speakers’ list. With many others, we call for the development of an improved system of coordination here at Headquarters of the structure of the Organization’s machinery in the social and economic sectors. More thought must also be given to the rationalization and coordination of the Organization’s multifarious development agencies in the field. Even as the World Trade Organization and the Bretton Woods institutions develop their separate complexes of structures and prescriptions, my delegation sees a greater need for overall coordination by this premier Organization. The United Nations must be appropriately developed as the first among equals within the global organizational system. We laud the Secretary-General and the Assembly for improvement in the systems of oversight and conditions of service, especially in the area of gender equity. But equitable distribution of staff posts and responsibilities within all United Nations bodies must be radically improved. Above all, the United Nations must learn to speak to, not at, the peoples of the world. In the ongoing efforts to rearticulate, reinform and reinforce the vision of the Charter’s framers, we can even envisage our Chief Executive going on camera on popular talk shows, teaching new constituencies about what is after all their organization. He should continue to find bully pulpits in the global electronic information meeting-place, for the need to sound the themes that underline the continuing vitality of our world body is particularly urgent at this time. After all, in the run-up to our fiftieth anniversary we must be able to give a proper account of our stewardship, to withstand the special scrutiny we will surely now provoke. Our world Government has to demonstrate that it is relevant, effective, moral and, above all, democratic. It is only then that we can fully expect that it will be able hereafter to call out ever more clearly, forcefully and directly to 'We the peoples of the world'. Over and above the usual civilities, Sir, the very sincere and warm congratulations of the Cameroon delegation on your election to preside over the current session of the General Assembly are addressed to you both as an able diplomat and as a worthy representative of Côte d’Ivoire, a country that is a friend of ours and with which we are honoured to have longstanding relations of fraternal cooperation. On behalf of the delegation of Cameroon, I wish you every success in the exercise of your important functions. Ambassador Insanally of Guyana, your predecessor, successfully reflected and expressed our concerns when presiding over the forty-eighth session. We should like to express our deep appreciation to him. Since his election our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has placed all his courage, energy and determination at the service of our Organization to promote peace, justice and progress in an increasingly difficult climate. Cameroon would once again like to assure him of its firm and constant support. Despite the uncertainties, upheavals and crises we are experiencing in the evolving international environment, several major events since the last session give grounds for satisfaction and hope. The emergence of a united, democratic and non-racial South Africa, under the leadership of President Nelson Mandela, has sounded the death knell of the apartheid era, now a thing of the past, while marking the advent of a new era on our continent. South Africa can now get down to its economic and social development with increased vigour. Cameroon, which was at the forefront of the struggle against the scourge of apartheid, once again solemnly welcomes South Africa’s return into the concert of nations. The credit for this happy return goes to the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity and the forces of progress in the world for their combined efforts, but mainly to the South African people and leaders themselves, in particular Nelson Mandela and Frederik de Klerk, who have always distinguished themselves by the breadth of their vision, their courage and their determination. Echoing the new era beginning in Pretoria, an important stage has just been reached in the long process leading to the normalization of relations between Israel and the Palestinians on the one hand, and between Israel and its other Arab neighbours on the other hand. The advent of Palestinian autonomy in the Gaza Strip and Jericho, pursuant to the agreements concluded, and the significant progress in the negotiations between the Jewish State and Jordan are significant advances towards a just and lasting settlement of the question of the Middle East, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly. We must encourage this promising, but still fragile, development and give it all the necessary attention and determination. The judicial settlement of the conflict between Chad and Libya over the Aouzu Strip, which has finally come into being following lengthy negotiations, deserves to be welcomed with satisfaction, particularly since it constitutes a model for others to follow. By bringing the question of the border and territorial dispute between Nigeria and Cameroon over Bakassi to the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and its machinery for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts, to the Security Council, which is responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, and to the International Court of Justice, which is charged with the peaceful and judicial settlement of conflicts, it was the intention of Cameroon to subscribe fully to the virtues of preventive diplomacy. It is an established fact that, like non-aggression pacts and mutual assistance pacts, preventive diplomacy is an interesting innovation and one that may well prevent new conflicts and suffering, and even reverse the tendency towards confrontation and war which is so characteristic of our continent. For this reason, preventive diplomacy should be encouraged and supported by the international community. 13 For its part, my country would like to thank all those who have supported it in regard to the Bakassi affair. The means of action and the machinery of diplomacy at the disposal of the OAU and the United Nations should be further strengthened. The positive developments in South Africa and the Middle East coincide, unfortunately, with the persistence or the eruption of hotbeds of tension throughout the world. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Cyprus, in Afghanistan, as well as in Cambodia, peace is still threatened. It is threatened even further on our continent, a fact to which the tragedy of Rwanda bears witness. This is an opportunity to renew an urgent appeal to our brothers in Liberia, Somalia, Rwanda, Burundi, Angola and Mozambique, as well as in other countries beset by tension, conflict and warfare, to rise above their various differences so that they may be able to make the necessary efforts to meet the challenge of peace. The persistence of these conflicts and hotbeds of tension, so harmful in their consequences, compels us to initiate and resolutely and vigorously pursue any action conducive to peace, security and the building of confidence, which are so necessary in the struggle against poverty and destitution. Within States we should, for instance, promote tolerance, respect for the rights of others, participation by all in the affairs of the country, and fair distribution of the fruits of growth. In relations between States, the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of States must be respected, while at the same time this should not be an obstacle to mutual cooperation in the event of natural disasters and calamities that require humanitarian intervention. The creation by the African Heads of State of the OAU machinery to which I have referred, and the initialling by the States of central Africa of a non-aggression pact in September 1994, are among the efforts we have been making to promote good-neighbourly relations based on confidence and free from any threat of the use of force. Although at the outset this machinery has already achieved some excellent results, nevertheless, like the Standing Consultative Committee on Questions of Security in Central Africa that was created by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in the context of preventive diplomacy, it needs the support of the international community. In the final analysis, these regional initiatives to promote confidence-building measures and progressive disarmament should, on the global level, be encouraged in order to achieve the objectives of the international community with respect to disarmament, peace and security. Thus, we welcome the respect being shown for the moratorium on nuclear testing, as well as the progress achieved in negotiations between the United States and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea over the North Korean nuclear programme. We encourage both countries to find a peaceful solution to that dispute. Regarding the current negotiations at the Conference on Disarmament to conclude a comprehensive nuclear- test-ban treaty, Cameroon joins the Movement of Non- Aligned Countries in expressing the hope that this convention will be signed before the Amendment Conference in 1995. Finally, whether we speak of nuclear weapons or other weapons of mass destruction, conventional weapons, toxic waste, mine clearance or anti-personnel mines, Cameroon also wishes to see the international community working towards general and complete disarmament. In his report entitled “Agenda for Development” (A/48/935), the Secretary-General noted very aptly that peace was the foundation of development; that the economy was the engine of progress; that the environment was the basis of sustainability; that justice was the pillar of society, and that democracy represented good governance. These preliminary reflections deserve great attention, since the “Agenda for Development” is a follow-up to the “Agenda for Peace” (A/47/277). It reaffirms, furthermore, that economic, social and cultural development is a fundamental right of the human being. Furthermore, global talks on development, which were held in New York in June 1994 on the initiative and under the presidency of Ambassador Insanally, the high- level debate and the recent session of the Economic and Social Council on the “Agenda for Development”, the Ministerial Declaration that followed the commemorative ceremonies for the thirtieth anniversary of the Group of 77 and the substantive session of Economic and Social 14 Council indicate that development is a complex phenomenon, requiring constant effort on the part of States and of the international community as a whole. It is therefore our hope, that on the basis of the priorities identified during these meetings, the measures required to deal with these issues will be considered by the General Assembly on the basis of a new report by the Secretary-General. The urgent need to set in motion a new United Nations programme for the development of Africa in the 1990s should be stressed. The timeliness and relevance of such a step was reaffirmed by the international conference on the development of Africa held in Tokyo. The African economy, as we know, is essentially based on primary commodities. Any strategy for the sustainable development of the continent must consequently take into account the need for diversification. We would like to reiterate the appeal we made last year from this same rostrum for the creation of a fund for diversification of commodities for Africa. In a different context — and this cannot be repeated too often — debt is a major obstacle to development. The debt of developing countries has steadily increased, rising from $1.662 billion in 1992 to $1.770 billion in 1993. We welcome the efforts made so far to relieve or reschedule debt for developing countries. However, a great deal still remains to be done, as is emphasized in the 1994 edition of the Human Development Report. Drought and desertification are another subject of major concern. We welcome the fact that negotiations were successfully concluded last June in Paris to draw up an international convention on drought and desertification, a matter of undoubted importance for the world ecosystem and, more specifically, for the implementation of Agenda 21 in Africa. If the conclusion of multilateral economic negotiations in the context of the Uruguay Round provides further prospects for a dynamic revitalization of international trade, it is important that steps be taken in parallel to reverse the pronounced trend towards the marginalization and the impoverishment of Africa, which could be promoted by the new machinery established at Marrakesh. Human rights are universal and indivisible, and we must therefore attach equal importance to economic, political, cultural and social rights. Whether in terms of the rights of women, children, youth, the disabled, the aged or other vulnerable groups, the human being must remain the central focus of the international community’s concerns. We should welcome the Plan of Action adopted at the recent International Conference on Population and Development, held at Cairo, for it takes account of that requirement. The Plan of Action does not focus on mankind as an abstract entity, but on human beings rooted in their economic, social, cultural and religious diversities, all of which need to be kept in mind. That is why the forthcoming Copenhagen World Summit on Social Development ought to result in specific commitments to reduce poverty, to create productive jobs and to strengthen social integration, particularly among the most vulnerable strata of society. The same concerns are reflected in the importance we attach to the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held at Beijing in 1995. It is in the interest of us all to pursue collective, unified action to struggle against the harmful effects of drugs, the spread of the AIDS pandemic, and natural catastrophes, if necessary combining emergency humanitarian assistance with measures for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the stricken countries. In another area, the entry into force next November of the Montego Bay convention — the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea — next November is a particularly encouraging development setting the seal on the universality of that important legal instrument. We hope that it will promote exploitation of the seas and oceans for the benefit of all. As we near the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, our wish is that the Organization will meet the challenge of reform and renewal. Whether it be the revitalization of the General Assembly and its subsidiary organs, the enlargement and strengthening of the Security Council, the rationalization of activities and procedures or the consolidation of the Organization’s financial basis, Member States should strive to mould an institution worthy of the vision and the inspiration of its founding fathers. May I at the outset express my sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the important post of President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. The loss of the ferry Estonia in the Baltic Sea, where more than 900 people perished, brought disaster close to our shores. The shock still lingers in the hearts and minds of all people around the Baltic. I am certain that this tragic event will in the end bring the stricken peoples even closer together. Let me convey our sincere gratitude for the sympathy and condolences that have been expressed in this Assembly. Sweden’s commitment to the United Nations and its principles and ideals is longstanding, firm and deep. To the new Swedish Government this commitment is crucial. The fiftieth anniversary of the Charter of the United Nations is approaching. It is perhaps the most important political document in the hands of humanity today. Its strength and potential are immense and must be brought to fruition. In the spirit of the Charter, world leaders should mobilize a global civic spirit of solidarity to extend the scope of and respect for international law and to strengthen global governance. The United Nations gives us an international system of law to avoid anarchy and the rule of the strongest. The United Nations enables us to work together to thwart ruthless assertion of self-interest and spheres of influence. Sweden wants a United Nations which reacts effectively against atrocities and mitigates human suffering and through which we can tackle the major questions of global survival, together and in solidarity. Sweden wants a United Nations that not only is a forum for the interests of States but that places the well-being of the individual at the centre. Solidarity does not recognize borders. Let me quote from the statement of the President of South Africa, Nelson Mandela, in this Assembly a week ago: 'The millions across our globe who stand expectant at the gates of hope look to this Organization to bring them peace, to bring them life, to bring them a life worth living.' (Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Plenary Meetings, 14th meeting, p. 10) These expectations and hopes are threatened by war and violence, by the suppression of human rights, and by racism and xenophobia. They are threatened by starvation, poverty, disasters and environmental degradation. Peace and security, democracy, human rights and sustainable economic and social development constitute a cohesive entity. If we neglect any of these values, we endanger the others. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are here among us in this Assembly as democratic and sovereign countries from which Russian troops have at long last been withdrawn. Diplomatic breakthroughs in the Middle East offer hopes for a comprehensive and lasting peace. In El Salvador the United Nations has made a significant contribution to ending the civil war. In South Africa, the apartheid has been dismantled. Yet we are confronted with new conflicts and dangers. We must all learn from tragic events such as those in Rwanda and Somalia. The inconceivable suffering in Rwanda points to the need for preventive diplomacy, early action and the coordination of United Nations efforts. In Somalia, the break-up of organized society and the ensuing large-scale violence and starvation underline the need for the careful coordination of peace-keeping, peacemaking and peace-building endeavours. While taking a forceful attitude to gain respect, the United Nations should avoid military enforcement other than as a very last resort and with a clear Security Council mandate. In Bosnia and Herzegovina and in other parts of the former Yugoslavia, efforts to end the conflict must be intensified and accepted by all parties. Pressure on Bosnian Serbs has to be further increased. Only in peace can the tragic consequences of 'ethnic cleansing' be reversed. Now is the time to work out plans for reconstruction and reconciliation. The Swedish Government is concerned about information on Iraqi military activity close to the border with Kuwait. We fully support the statement on the situation made by the Security Council three days ago. In facing the challenges of the post-cold-war international system, Member States must give their full support to the United Nations, but they must also actively promote necessary reforms of the Organization. The Commission on Global Governance, headed by the Swedish Prime Minister and by Mr. Ramphal, will present proposals for reform early next year. Let me mention a few areas where, in my view, reform is urgently needed. The United Nations must be able to operate more efficiently and according to modern principles of management, and new priorities have to be set. We need an enlarged and more effective Security Council, one that is both legitimate and representative. There is a need for increased transparency in the work of the Council. Countries in all regions must feel that they are partners in its actions. The Council has to maintain political control over the actions it authorizes. It must not become an instrument for dividing the world into spheres of interest, one in which the collective nature of United Nations action is not sufficiently safeguarded. Sweden has drawn experience from its participation in the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR). Substantive consultations between troop contributors, the Secretariat and Security Council members on a formal and regular basis are necessary. There must be a particular focus on early warning and early action in conflict resolution. Preventive diplomacy should be further strengthened. Thousands of lives can be saved and costly relief efforts avoided if action is taken in time. The new Swedish Government is ready to establish a United Nations peace-keeping brigade. We do this in response to the Secretary-General’s proposal for stand-by forces set up by Member States, ready to be deployed in crisis areas without delay. The need for better and more uniform training of peace-keepers is urgent. Particular attention should be paid to improved coordination between the military aspects of peace-keeping and civilian and humanitarian efforts. With this in mind, Sweden is prepared to contribute to improved training of peace-keepers. Sweden would like to see closer interaction between humanitarian programmes and peace-keeping operations. There is great potential for humanitarian action as a tool of preventive diplomacy, as well as for promoting a political climate that can facilitate the peaceful settlement of disputes at an early stage. The reluctance of Member States to pay their dues in full and on time is frustrating and must cease immediately. When this lack of discipline affects the financing of peace-keeping operations, it puts an additional burden on the troop contributors. 2 Sweden welcomes measures by the Department of Humanitarian Affairs to coordinate the activities of humanitarian agencies and many non-governmental organizations. Human rights is another area of priority for the Swedish Government. Fortunately, there is a growing and widening awareness among Member States of the role of human rights and democracy for the development of modern societies. Binding norms protecting human rights exist, yet violations continue. This is unacceptable. Governments must show the will and commitment to fully implement human rights norms. The Convention on the Rights of the Child was a great achievement. It is indeed a great challenge to assure all children of care, protection, education and freedom from hunger and from physical or mental violence, as provided for in the Convention and reaffirmed at the World Summit for Children. Governments which have ratified the Convention must live up to their commitments to the children of the world. Solidarity is fundamental in our efforts to overcome global economic and social challenges, and, thus, fundamental to prospects for peace and solidarity. The United Nations has a unique and central role in this endeavour. Sweden’s development cooperation will focus on support for the long-term, sustainable development of poor countries, with special emphasis on democracy, popular participation and the rights of women and children. Sweden will continue to allocate a substantial amount of its assistance to operational activities in the United Nations. We will also continue our efforts to strengthen the United Nations function as a forum for normative discussion and action and as a channel for development cooperation. The quality and effectiveness of United Nations activities in the economic and social field have to be improved, while at the same a stable and predictable flow of resources is secured. Priorities and the allocation of responsibilities within the international community need to be discussed further. 'An Agenda for Development' (A/48/935) is a key instrument in this endeavour. We must use it to draw up a clear and strategic programme of action for the United Nations system in the development area. The International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, the World Summit for Social Development to be held in Copenhagen, and the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing are all linked. They contribute to the achievement of human security in a broader sense. The Cairo Conference established that questions of population and development must be treated together. The starting-point must be the human being and the rights and security of the individual. Agenda 21, adopted at the Rio Conference, facilitates joint action to achieve sustainable development at both the local and the global level. All over Sweden local versions of Agenda 21 are now being actively pursued. It is imperative to stop wasting resources and thereby depriving future generations of their means of livelihood. Patterns of consumption and production must be sustainable. In this regard, the developed countries have a particular responsibility. Ecological balance must be established also while we combat poverty. Disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are central to the goals of preventing conflicts, promoting peace and fostering economic and social development. In recent years important progress has been made. Agreements that were inconceivable only a few years ago have been concluded. But signatures are not enough. Agreements must also be ratified and implemented if they are to contribute to peace and security. Furthermore, the present momentum should be used to strengthen and further develop well-established disarmament regimes. The need to establish a verification system for the Convention on biological weapons is a case in point. The non-proliferation Treaty is a key to both nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. The Treaty is the only multilateral agreement in which nuclear-weapon States have committed themselves to nuclear disarmament. As long as nuclear weapons exist, we must insist that these commitments be honoured. It is not least with this in mind that the extension of the Treaty should be pursued. Our common goal must be a world free of nuclear arms. 3 On several occasions, Sweden has presented proposals for a comprehensive test-ban treaty. We are gratified that all States, including the nuclear-weapon States, are now prepared to negotiate such a treaty. It is essential that these negotiations be concluded in the very near future. Sweden was one of the first countries to ratify the chemical weapons Convention. So far, almost 160 States have signed the Convention, but only 16 have ratified it. We urge all States to take the necessary steps for ratification, so that the Convention can enter into force without delay. Some 100 million land-mines all over the world represent both an acute and an impending humanitarian disaster as well as a threat to economic development, even years and decades after hostilities have ceased. The long-term solution is an international agreement to ban anti-personnel land-mines. Sweden has proposed such a ban. Regional instruments for preventing and dealing with conflicts are being developed. This should not deprive the regions involved of support from the international community through the United Nations. The responsibility of the United Nations, including the Security Council, remains universal. The Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) is a central and indispensable institution for conflict prevention and management. The endeavours of the CSCE High Commissioner on National Minorities have effectively contributed to building security in Europe, as have the CSCE missions in the field. The Swedish experience of cooperation between the CSCE and the United Nations tells us that global and regional efforts are not in contradiction but are mutually reinforcing. Sweden’s non-participation in military alliances remains unchanged. This policy contributes to the maintenance of stability in the north of Europe, and improves our possibilities of working for common security in Europe and in the world at large. Sweden will actively contribute to the new security partnership in Europe by responding rapidly to requests from the United Nations, and by contributing substantially to activities of the Council of Europe, the CSCE and the Partnership for Peace arrangement. We want to strengthen cooperation with all our neighbours around the Baltic Sea and in the Barents Sea region. We look forward to cooperation in all areas with the new, democratic Russia. Sweden has applied for membership in the European Union. In one month the people of Sweden will decide on this important question in a referendum. As a member of the Union, Sweden would whole-heartedly support the Union’s efforts to promote security and economic and social development, not only in Europe but on a global scale. It is by looking outwards, by forging links and extending its cooperation to other regions, that the European Union makes its contribution to global stability and solidarity. Let me emphasize that there is no contradiction between European and global cooperation. Sweden will be an active member of the United Nations and defend openness and international cooperation. Sweden has presented its candidature for a seat on the Security Council for the period 1997 to 1998. The Swedish candidature is based on our commitment to global security, on our will to promote international law, and on our conviction that conflicts can and must be solved by addressing their root causes before they lead to war. Sweden’s support for the United Nations is a fundamental national interest and a cornerstone in our foreign policy, for reasons of peace, freedom, security, democracy and justice. For these reasons, Sweden will strongly promote the United Nations — a United Nations based on democratic principles, giving us all a voice in our common future. Your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, Sir, is a source of pride for the whole diplomatic community, for Africa and for your country, Côte d’Ivoire, and constitutes a just reward for your dynamic guidance of your country’s diplomatic activities. Those of us who already know your work at the United Nations and at other international meetings can already foresee the success of the work of the forty-ninth session; we know your enormous talent, wisdom and patience. Your election also reflects the international community’s confidence in your country, Côte d’Ivoire, a country with which Niger maintains diversified relations solidly rooted in the history and geography of West Africa. Finally, your election is a posthumous tribute by the international community to the work carried out over half a century by the late President Félix Houphouët-Boigny in the service of human dignity, peace and social progress. Permit me, therefore, to congratulate you, Sir, and through you the people of Côte d’Ivoire and its President, Mr. Henri Konan Bedié, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I wish also to congratulate the other Assembly officers; I am sure they will spare no effort to rendering valuable assistance as you carry out your tasks. Niger thanks your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, for his tireless work; he fulfilled his mandate methodically and ably during one of the Organization’s busiest years. I also convey my greetings to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and thank him for the dynamism and far-sightedness with which he is carrying out his mandate in this period of important change; we hail him for his firm commitment to international peace and security. The annual convening of the General Assembly gives Niger the opportunity to renew its faith in the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, signed at San Francisco nearly half a century ago. On 28 September 1993, the President of the Republic of the Niger, His Excellency Mr. Mahamane Ousmane, here outlined the views of Niger and its people on the problems of our time. In his statement he stressed that the solution to some of those problems lies first and foremost in the establishment of democracy. Indeed, it is through democracy that mankind will find the path of freedom, the path of the love of work and the path of the shared happiness of citizens. Niger is firmly committed to this path of democracy; it has already found the path of freedom for its children. Today in Niger, no one is molested because of his philosophical or religious ideas; since the establishment of the Third Republic, freedom of the press is complete and is guaranteed by the Constitution. Freedom of association too is complete and guaranteed by the Constitution, and a number of political parties, associations and trade unions now play to the full the role that is properly theirs in every democratic society. It is in that context that the people of Niger is engaged in rediscovering the path of the love of work, which alone can generate wealth. Many non-governmental organizations have been founded and are working in close cooperation with foreign organizations. The Government of Niger is aware of its responsibilities in this area, and is doing everything it can to ensure that every man and woman of Niger feels fully involved in development issues and can make even a modest contribution to building a society founded on prosperity, justice and freedom. Niger is a Sahelian country confronted with the inexorable advance of the Sahara Desert; we welcome the conclusion at Paris last June of the International Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa. Niger invites all Member States to sign that important Convention so as to permit it to enter into force as soon as possible. We hope that the international community will finally be able to act on its commitment to give countries suffering from this scourge the ability to lay the foundation for genuine, sustainable development. 25 Like other developing countries, Niger is facing numerous difficulties, the most important and most formidable core issue for us is rainfall, whose capriciousness is feared by our authorities and our people alike. Sometimes too meager, sometimes excessive, the rainy season is an ongoing concern in Niger. Last year there was not enough rain; this year, however, there were rains such as Niger has not witnessed in more than two decades. They caused considerable damage but did not gratify our people or our Government with an adequate harvest. Niger wants to free itself from the vagaries of the heavens in order at last to save its children from hunger and thirst. That is why our Head of State, His Excellency Mr. Mahamane Ousmane, has initiated a major campaign in which the people are participating in building the first- ever dam on the Niger river. To this end he called on all the citizens of Niger to mobilize the resources needed to build the Kandadji Dam. From this rostrum, I should like to invite all organizations and countries which wish to aid my country, to give particular attention to this project. For Niger, this is a question of ensuring the conditions necessary for the survival of the present and future generations. My country has accorded food self-sufficiency top priority in its campaign for economic development. It keenly hopes that with the assistance of the international community it will achieve this objective before the end of the present decade. Here, Niger hopes that the nations which share the same ideal of prosperity and happiness will extend it the same solidarity. Since he took office in April 1993, President Mahamane Ousmane has vowed to devote his full energy to the return of peace in the troubled regions in the north of our country. He has made that question a constant matter of concern for the Government of Niger. By the grace of God, and following the recent negotiations held in Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso, the Government of Niger signed a peace agreement with the Coordination of Armed Resistance, thereby opening the way for a cease-fire and the drawing up of legislative texts designed to provide more harmonious management of the regions. On behalf of the Government of Niger, allow me here to extend our warm gratitude to Algeria, Burkino Faso and France, whose mediation made it possible to arrive at this fortunate conclusion. The Ouagadougou Agreement, which was signed last Sunday, 9 October 1994, and which entered into force today, 11 October 1994, will allow the people of Niger to devote itself to the critical issues of development in a calm atmosphere. It opens the way to national reconciliation among the sons of the same geographical region, united by history and inspired by the same will - that of living together. The Government of Niger will, for its part, engage in implementing this Agreement by submitting a draft law to the National Assembly as soon as possible. It hopes that the international community will assist by providing material and financial resources to ensure the return and integration of the refugees. Niger is also expecting consistent support from the international community to ensure its economic recovery. Thus, since the devaluation of the CFA franc, my Government has been continuing negotiations with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. It has concluded an agreement with the Bretton Woods institutions on economic recovery, and negotiations are now under way for the conclusion of an agreement on the facility for strengthened structural adjustment. The Government of Niger has taken the necessary preliminary measures to ensure that the present negotiations lead to the signing of this agreement at an early date. On the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, it is gratifying to be able to note all that has been accomplished, in particular over the last few years, in areas as complex as peace-keeping, disarmament, security, the establishment of democracy, and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The development of the situation in the Middle East which led to the establishment of the Palestinian authority in Gaza, like the logic of peace and dialogue which now prevails between Israel and the other Arab countries, is part of this new dynamic. We cannot fail to mention here, with legitimate pride, the process which led to the establishment in South Africa of a democratic regime which is being guided with wisdom and determination by President Nelson Mandela 26 and which has allowed this founding Member of the Organization to regain its rightful place in the community of nations. How can we fail to be gratified that President Jean- Bertrand Aristide will soon arrive on Haitian soil after three long years in forced exile? These are indeed major events which encourage us to hope that we will see a rapid return of peace wherever it may have been shattered or wherever it is threatened. The recent negotiations held in New York between Cuba and the United States, the negotiations between the American and North Korean authorities, as well as the withdrawal of the last foreign troops from Germany and some of the Baltic States, show how much we have accomplished in the five years since the collapse of the Berlin Wall. Throughout the world - in Africa, in Asia and in America and in Europe - the last vestiges of the cold war are fading away to open the way for a fruitful partnership among nations. The United Nations has made its contribution to the achievement of this new atmosphere but here and there hotbeds of tension continue to exist which attest to the fragility of the present balance. Among these conflicts, some of which are ravaging Africa, I would mention first of all the conflict in Rwanda, where a fratricidal war has caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of men, women and children, left thousands wounded and sent millions of refugees into exile. How can we have allowed such a tragedy to take place without having used all the means and resources available to the international community in time to prevent, if not limit, the unprecedented massacres which were perpetrated? Because it is aware that nothing lasting can be conceived and realized in Rwanda without peace and unity among its sons Niger made its modest contribution to the restoration of peace in Rwanda by participating in the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR). In this country which has been torn apart, Niger hopes to see the provisions of the Arusha Agreement enforced so that the hardworking people of Rwanda may be able at last, and once and for all, to turn its attention towards the tasks of reconstruction and development. Niger expresses the same hopes for peace and stability in neighbouring Burundi and welcomes the significant progress made recently, which has resulted in its acquiring authorities who can pursue the work of consolidating the peace. Quite close to Rwanda, peace is making great strides also in a country which has been engaged in war and suffering since its independence, namely, Mozambique. Niger keenly hopes that the changes which took place recently in South Africa will have a very positive effect on the elections to be held there on 27 and 28 October. The situation in Angola is a matter of concern for my delegation. Niger welcomes the fact that, thanks to pressure from the international community and the efforts made by President Frederick Chiluba of Zambia and President Nelson Mandela of South Africa and thanks also to the joint actions of the special representatives of the Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity, UNITA has finally agreed to the signing of a peace agreement, a prelude to a general cease-fire and the establishment of a lasting peace in Angola. Nor must the international community and, in particular, the United Nations turn its attention away from Somalia, that other fraternal country that has been ravaged. Indeed, it must do all in its power to maintain a significant United Nations presence, which alone can guarantee lasting peace in Somalia. The process of settling all these conflicts has revealed the need for greater coordination between the efforts of the United Nations and those of the regional organizations within the framework of safeguarding peace and international security. Niger thanks all the countries which, on a bilateral basis, made their valuable contribution to the resolution of certain African conflicts and appeals to the international community for continuing support for the machinery of prevention - machinery established by the Organization of African Unity for the management and settlement of conflicts - to allow it to be more operational. My country is gratified that, after 46 years of hostilities, Jordan and Israel agreed to sign a peace agreement on 25 July 1994 - this less than a year after the signing of the agreement between the Israelis and the Palestinians. 27 Niger hopes that the logic of peace which has been established in this region will lead to the signature of similar agreements between Israel and Lebanon on the one hand and between Syria and Israel on the other, so that once and for all fraternity will prevail between the sons of this part of the world, the cradle of centuries-old civilizations. Niger thus appeals to the Iraqi authorities to ensure that the actions they undertake fit within the spirit and letter of the Security Council resolutions, that they recognize the international borders of Kuwait and refrain from any action likely once again to inflame the Gulf region in a fratricidal conflict with incalculable consequences. Clearly, the world today has gone from a period of confrontation to one of cooperation. It is clear that our Organization over the years, with its present membership of 184 States, is aspiring towards the ideal of universalism enshrined in its Charter. However, it is up to the United Nations to devote particular attention to other regions and other peoples which, through their vitality and economic dynamism, could also contribute to the implementation of the ideals of the Charter. It is moreover in this spirit that Niger regrets that the General Assembly was not able to put on its agenda the item entitled 'Consideration of the exceptional situation of the Republic of China in Taiwan in the international context, based on the principle of universality and in accordance with the established model of parallel representation of divided countries at the United Nations'. Niger is keenly concerned at the continuation of the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina despite the efforts and the patience of the member countries of the Contact Group and the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the numerous resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly, and the many actions undertaken by the international community. The most recent events in this conflict have demonstrated to those who still had doubts that the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina is deliberate and is supported by the leaders of the Serbian community who have made force the primary basis for their actions. That is why, while welcoming the political courage demonstrated throughout this crisis by President Izetbegovic, Niger supports the proposals which he made here on 27 September of lifting the arms embargo which is preventing Bosnia and Herzegovina from exercising its right to legitimate self-defence in accordance with the Charter of the Organization. At the risk of seeing many States lose their faith in the system of collective security, the Security Council should make the Serbs respect the relevant resolutions which it has adopted. It is high time for the Security Council to take the measures required by the situation concerning the Serbian aggressors. The end of the cold war and of the East-West conflict has not yet fully liberated mankind from all its anguish; nor has it allowed it to remove the heavy burden posed by the build-up and improvement in arms. While it is true that risks of armed confrontation between the super-Powers have today disappeared allowing unimaginable progress in the area of disarmament, this has not led to that strengthening of security which we were entitled to expect. A producer of uranium, Niger has ratified the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and will support, during the negotiations to take place next year, its extension and the universal nature it must acquire. The signing last year in Paris of the chemical weapons Convention, as well as the unilateral moratoriums proclaimed by the nuclear Powers are today also important constructive steps. Other efforts should also be made to control conventional weapons and, in a general fashion, to establish confidence-building measures among States. It is indeed horrendous to see colossal sums absorbed in the manufacture of ever-more sophisticated weapons of destruction and in mortgaging the security of outer space while in vast regions of the world millions of men, women and children are languishing in the most abject misery, engaging in a daily battle against hunger and illness. How many savings could have been made from the resources allotted to peace-keeping if the minimum had been allotted to development? I am tempted to say here: give economic and social development that which is its due and there will be less to worry about concerning peace. Indeed, as you so eloquently pointed out on 20 September last after your election, Mr. President, the economic and social situation at the international level is 28 experiencing alarming developments marked by the stamp of uncertainty and adversity for the developing countries, and for Africa in particular. In the course of this century that is coming to an end, mankind has experienced unprecedented turns that improved the conditions of the lives of individuals. However, in several regions of the world peace is threatened not by armed men but by millions of hungry human beings in distress who see no prospects for improvement of their living conditions. In this regard, Africa for two decades now has seemed a desperate case, despite its abundant natural wealth. To be sure, progress has been made economically and socially, but in comparison with the rest of the world such progress seems insignificant, and in certain respects entire areas have become settled in a situation of non-development. Thus, while certain countries in Asia are experiencing expansion with trends of accelerated growth, Africa’s economic prospects continue to remain mediocre. Today, more than 350 million Africans are living in abject poverty, more than half of them women and children. Paradoxically, Africa also shows the signs of a vibrant continent capable of the greatest economic prowess, as long as the international community gives it the opportunity and the means to achieve its potential. Indeed, how can we speak of a continent on its way to ruin when along with its natural resources Africa has a young generation determined to meet the challenges of history? How can one sideline Africa when its contribution to the global economy throughout past centuries has allowed for the industrialization of the other continents? Here the industrialized countries bear a heavy responsibility. I should like to recall Niger’s position on a particular aspect of this responsibility, namely, the debt. As long as the developing countries, and in particular those of sub-Saharan Africa, continue to devote the greater part of their income to paying off the foreign debt they will never be able to lay down the basis for a genuine economic recovery. Thus, Niger urges the developed countries to cancel the debts of the developing countries and if necessary to give priority to the least developed countries. In so doing the industrialized countries will have answered their own appeal as made by the Group of Seven most highly industrialized countries at the Naples Summit in July 1994. Along with the debt the continued deterioration of the terms of trade is a subject of great concern for Niger. The purchase price of the products these countries offer on the international market is falling year by year while the prices of manufactured products which the same countries are buying are continuing to rise. To be competitive, some of these countries have devalued their currency by half, despite the difficult economic, social and political consequences. Quite recently in Morocco the developing countries renewed their faith in the rules governing international trade through their active participation in the agreement establishing the World Trade Organization. We hope that, in return, this organization will be able to fill the gaps in the text of the agreement by taking courageous decisions and adopting measures in favour of the developing countries, in particular those of Africa. For many of the developing countries international trade is, first of all, trade in commodities. That is why Niger attaches great importance to the establishment of the commodifies Fund and, in so doing, appeals diversification to those countries still reluctant to do so to become involved in the dynamic process under way in this area. But what the developing countries, and especially the least-developed countries, need most is the establishment of a genuine fund for development assured of lasting resources. It is recognized today that the Bretton Woods institutions have reached their limits in development matters. The conditions attached to World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) loans are often a genuine impediment to attaining the developing countries’ purpose in negotiating the loan agreements. In his report 'An Agenda for Development', the Secretary-General rightly notes that peace is the development; the economy is the engine of progress; the environment is a basis for sustainability; and social justice is a pillar of society. My delegation hopes that the consultations to be held on this document will result in a fleshing-out of the initial outline and that the final report will take into account the vital concerns of the developing countries. We hope that it will put forward concrete ways and means to ensure implementation of the development programmes and strategies adopted by the General Assembly over the last few years. 29 The forthcoming major international conferences - the World Summit for Social Development, the Fourth World Conference on Women and the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements - provide opportunities for us further to enrich this Agenda. In conclusion, let me reaffirm Niger’s faith in the ideals of the United Nations and in its ability to find, thanks to the solidarity of all its Members, the right answers to the new challenges we face. Allow me, first, to express my sincere satisfaction on the occasion of your election, Sir, as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session and to wish you every success in your work. I should like also to thank the President of the last session, Mr. Samuel Insanally, for the work he did. I express my deep gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts to strengthen peace and security throughout the world. I should like to extend to him my very special appreciation, especially for his keen interest in the problems of our young State, which is going through a complicated period of its history. It is with a sense of excitement and pride that I am addressing this Assembly from the podium of the most authoritative international forum. For the first time, the President of an independent Azerbaijan is representing his country before the international community, a country that has been recognized by this community and has joined it as an equal among equals. The Azerbaijani people have striven for freedom for centuries. After the disintegration of the Soviet Union they gained their national independence. Our Republic has embarked upon the road of constructing a law-based, democratic and civilized State. This is a complicated process; it cannot be completed overnight, but we are steadily moving towards our goal. During a short period of time a great deal has been accomplished, and all the conditions have been created for the formation of a law-based, democratic society. We have evolved in our Republic a multi-party system, firmly based on the principles of political pluralism and freedom of the individual, speech, the press and conscience, as well as principles of respect for human rights and the rule of law. All citizens of multinational Azerbaijan enjoy equal rights, irrespective of their racial, religious and linguistic affiliations. Political changes and the democratization of the country have created the conditions for carrying out deep economic reforms, ensuring a transition to a market economy. We fully encourage the development of free enterprise and private initiative. We are on the way to realizing a large-scale privatization programme, using world experience based upon common human values - on the experience of leading countries that have already achieved great success in constructing civilized, prosperous and democratic societies. Located at the important geopolitical junction of Europe and Asia and the focus of the keen interest of many Powers, possessing rich natural resources and a substantial industrial potential and guided by the firm will and confidence of the Azerbaijani people, we are carrying out the strategy of strengthening our independence and implementing democratic market reforms. Today, from this lofty rostrum, I firmly declare that no one will be able to make the Azerbaijani people stray from this path. We look to the future of our country with optimism. Our optimism is also linked with historic processes taking place in the world as well as with profound changes in the system of international relations. A world order based on equal rights and replacing military and ideological confrontation will certainly form the future basis of this system. Partnership and enduring peace and security for everyone, in accordance with international law and the principles and provisions of the United Nations Charter, are becoming the fundamental principles of the new world order. We see the light at the end of the tunnel, a tunnel leading from a world of hostility based on the use of force to an era of cooperation and prosperity. We are ready to walk along this road together, hand in hand with all the other countries and peoples of the world. However, the threats looming over mankind have not been totally eliminated. Old stereotypes still exist, and numerous problems, accumulated over decades of confrontation, especially problems in the sphere of disarmament and the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, have not yet been overcome. Relations between States with different economic potentials still suffer from the maladies of the past. Time is presenting us with new challenges, challenges linked with environmental difficulties and population and development problems. Aggressive nationalism and separatism, giving birth to conflicts in the Caucasus, the Balkans and other hot spots, have become realities following the collapse of the old world order. These conflicts not only hamper the development of independent States and directly threaten the very existence of fledgling democracies, but also threaten international security as a whole. That is why, in a post-confrontational world, a special responsibility rests on the shoulders of authoritative international organizations as well as on those shoulders of the big Powers. Using their political weight and their economic, financial and military resources, they must more actively direct their potential towards extinguishing the flame of conflicts and towards the consolidation of peace, stability and security throughout the world. It goes without saying that in the construction of a new world order there is a leading role for the United Nations, which will celebrate its fiftieth anniversary next year, and for its Security Council, which has extensive experience in resolving a number of conflicts and crises. However, the Security Council will still face the difficult test of proving to the international community its efficiency under new conditions. Today, as never before, the Security Council is required to be more persistent in achieving guaranteed implementation of its resolutions. We hope that enlargement of the Council will contribute to its strengthening. We attach great importance to the role of the General Assembly, which is primarily seen as ensuring the closest possible interaction between States in the decision-making process, on the basis of compromises and the balance of interests. Under present conditions, one should mention the increased importance of the efficient use by the Secretary-General of his powers, as well as the support that must be given him by Member States, which share with him the responsibility for strengthening international peace and security. Generally speaking, the Azerbaijani Republic is optimistic about the future of the United Nations. We are determined to continue to protect the lofty principles of the United Nations and to seek improvement in the authority and efficiency of the Organization. For many of those present the notion of war and armed conflict may, fortunately, be associated with history or faraway events. But for my people it is a cruel reality and a bloody daily routine. For six years the flame of war has been blazing on the land of Azerbaijan. The Republic of Armenia, under 2 the pretext of realizing the right to self-determination of an ethnic group of Armenians living in the Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan, is openly carrying out plans to annex the territories of our State, to forcibly change its State borders and to expel the Azerbaijani people from their homes. All this is cloaked by an arbitrary interpretation of the right of peoples to self-determination as meaning a right of any ethnic community to proclaim itself independent and to join another State. Such an interpretation of the right to self-determination blatantly contradicts the principles of State sovereignty and territorial integrity. Any attempt to make this right absolute results in cruel conflicts, which we have witnessed in our region and in other parts of our planet. The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has expressed his concern on this issue, saying: '... if every ethnic, religious or linguistic group claimed statehood, there would be no limit to fragmentation, and peace, security and economic well-being for all would become ever more difficult to achieve.' (A/47/277, para. 17) I fully agree with Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali that: 'The sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of States within the established international system, and the principle of self- determination for peoples, both of great value and importance, must not be permitted to work against each other in the period ahead.' (ibid, para. 19) Being aware that the international community is insufficiently, and sometimes unilaterally, informed about events in our region, I should like to brief the Assembly on the real situation. Having created a powerful military build-up on the territory of the Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Armenia started intensive military activities against our Republic. With the occupation of the town of Shusha and of the Lachin region, the annexation of Nagorny Karabakh was completed, and about 50,000 resident Azerbaijanis were ousted. Using the Nagorny Karabakh springboard, Armenian armed forces then occupied another six regions of Azerbaijan: Kalbajar, Agdam, Fizuli, Djebrail, Zangelan and Kubatli, which, like the Lachin region, are situated outside the former Nagorny Karabakh autonomous region, with a territory four times bigger than that of Nagorny Karabakh. As a result of the aggression, more than 20 per cent of the territory of Azerbaijan is under occupation by the armed forces of the Republic of Armenia. I must mention here the huge losses on the Azerbaijani side: more than 20,000 killed, about 100,000 wounded and 6,000 taken prisoner. In addition, more than 1 million Azerbaijanis - about 15 per cent of the population - have become refugees and live in tents. In their own country they have been deprived of shelter, and they suffer from heat, cold and epidemics, and experience shortages of their basic needs. Seven hundred towns and villages have been levelled on the occupied Azerbaijani territories; practically all the houses, schools, hospitals, and ancient monuments have been burned down and looted. I think there is no need to prove that here we are dealing not with the realization of the right to self-determination, but with a gross violation of international law, in the form of aggression against the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of a United Nations Member State. The war has created unbearable conditions for my people. It aggravates social tension and hampers the implementation of economic and political reforms aimed at the democratization of Azerbaijani society. As a result of the war, the Azerbaijani people have suffered a huge material loss, amounting to billions of dollars. As for the moral damage inflicted on human life and destiny, there is hardly anything to compare to the sorrow and pain of my people. Blood is being shed now, not only in Azerbaijan, but also in other hot spots of the world. Peoples must not remain indifferent to these tragic events. Collective efforts should be made in order to prevent the escalation of armed conflicts and to achieve their just and lasting resolution. During the past two years the Security Council adopted four resolutions and its President has made six statements in connection with the occupation of Azerbaijani territories by armed forces of the Republic of Armenia. In all its resolutions the Security Council reaffirms the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Azerbaijani Republic; emphasizes the inadmissibility of the use of 3 force for the acquisition of territory; it strongly demands the immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of all occupying forces from all the occupied regions of Azerbaijan; and calls for the return of refugees to their homes. But all these decisions have so far been completely ignored by the Republic of Armenia. Moreover, Armenia continues to build up its military presence in the occupied territories of Azerbaijan. On the other hand, the Security Council has also failed to put into effect the mechanism for implementing the resolutions. Here we face a question: to what extent is the Security Council consistent and resolute, and how is the degree of application of its powers in each case defined? Non-compliance with the decisions of the Security Council does not serve the interests of the United Nations, and may undermine confidence in its abilities to achieve its main objective: the maintenance of international peace and security. Experience gained in the process of settling regional conflicts shows that the efforts to implement resolutions succeed only when endorsed by the political-military means envisaged in the United Nations Charter. The duty of the most authoritative international organization in the world community is to take effective measures with respect to the aggressor State, which is blatantly violating norms of international law. In the efforts to settle the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict, we rely on such an authoritative organization as the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). The Minsk Group, created by the CSCE for the settlement of the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict, also proceeds on the basis of the necessity for the evacuation of all the occupied territories and the complete withdrawal of the occupying forces beyond the boundaries of Azerbaijan. It also calls for respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and internationally recognized borders of Azerbaijan. However, unfortunately, the numerous mediation efforts of the CSCE have not yet brought about any tangible, concrete results, due to the lack of appropriate mechanisms. Only now do we have the first positive result. At the cost of enormous efforts, and owing to active mediation by the Russian Federation and the CSCE Minsk Group, a cease-fire has been achieved in the conflict zone. The fighting and bloodshed have been stopped for more than four months. We greatly appreciate all this. But the situation still remains very complicated and the truce is very fragile. The Republic of Armenia has put forward an illegitimate condition, that of exchanging part of the occupied Azerbaijani territories for independent status for the Nagorny Karabakh region of the Azerbaijani Republic. It demands that it keep its military presence in this Azerbaijani region and that it control the town of Shusha and the Lachin region of Azerbaijan, which implies consolidation of its annexation of our territories. Armenia completely excludes the restoration of the demographic composition of Nagorny Karabakh as it was at the beginning of the conflict and the return of the Azerbaijani population, including its return to one of the ancient centres of Azerbaijani culture, the town of Shusha. On these conditions, Armenia, ignoring the Security Council’s resolutions, proposes the deployment of an international separation force along the perimeter of the occupied Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan, thus trying to turn it into a tool for freezing the situation and to make it a hostage of its annexationist policy. The position of the Azerbaijani Republic has always been constructive and peace-loving. Despite all the damage inflicted upon us, we propose peace to the Armenian side on the basis of international law, justice and humanism. We are prepared to provide guarantees to the Armenian population of Nagorny Karabakh. We favour the restoration, on a mutual basis, of communications in the region, including the humanitarian corridor between Nagorny Karabakh and the Republic of Armenia. We are also prepared to discuss the status of Nagorny Karabakh within the Azerbaijani State. However, there are norms and principles that we consider eternal: the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country, the evacuation of all the occupied territories and the return of refugees to their homes, including the return of 50,000 Azerbaijani refugees to their native land in Nagorny Karabakh. The Azerbaijani Republic, while it still wants a peaceful political settlement, considers that only the elimination of the consequences of aggression, through the implementation of Security Council resolutions, will make it possible to carry on a stable and productive 4 negotiating process, with the goal of establishing a durable, stable cease-fire and ensuring security for all the people of the region. Here we count on the assistance of the world community to ensure the realization of coordinated peaceful decisions on the basis of a precise mandate for peace- keepers in accordance with international norms. We highly appreciate the cease-fire agreement. We realize that it does not mean peace yet, but it creates the necessary conditions for its rapid achievement. On several occasions we have voiced our firm resolution to observe the cease-fire regime until the peace agreement is reached and there is a total cessation of the military conflict. I repeat that today from this lofty rostrum of the United Nations. We support the peace-keeping activities of the CSCE Minsk Group and the Russian Federation, and favour the consolidation of their efforts against any kind of competition in the process of settling the conflict. Such competition could only complicate the achievement of peace, which is needed equally by the peoples of Azerbaijan and of Armenia. Our demands for the complete evacuation of all occupied Azerbaijani territories are legitimate; they are in full conformity with Security Council resolutions. Attempts to annex any regions are unacceptable to us and go against the norms of international law. As a result of a war thrust upon us, an extremely difficult humanitarian situation has emerged in the Republic. Every seventh person in a country with a population of 7 million is a refugee, lacking a home, work and means for existence. Suffering from harsh miseries, refugees and displaced persons are staying in tent camps. The severe winter conditions and the lack of necessary food and medicines have created a threat of epidemics and famine among the most vulnerable group of the population. Overcoming the extremely grave refugee situation has become one of the major concerns of the Azerbaijani State. International organizations and a number of States have responded to the urgent appeal of our Republic, and we express our most sincere gratitude to the Governments of Sweden, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Denmark, which have become the largest donors to the United Nations programmes of humanitarian assistance to Azerbaijan. We are also grateful to the Governments of Turkey, Iran, Saudi Arabia and other countries for their considerable humanitarian assistance within the framework of bilateral relations, and to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the United Nations Children’s Fund, Doctors Without Borders and numerous non-governmental organizations which have rendered invaluable assistance to the refugees and displaced persons in Azerbaijan. The role and place of my country in international relations are influenced by its geographical location and socio-political orientation, as well as the historical-cultural traditions of a land where Western and Eastern civilizations have merged. It is with an awareness of these peculiarities and the challenges of change that we are building, step by step, our cooperation with the outside world. Since the international recognition of the Azerbaijani Republic, we have established equal, balanced relations with the overwhelming majority of States, and we have joined a number of world and regional organizations. We have made serious efforts to expand our international relations and to restore the links that were lost due to certain conditions. Attaching special importance to historical, geographical, economic and humanitarian links with the independent States that have emerged on the territory of the former Soviet Union, we favour the development of equal cooperation with them, in particular with Russia, both on the basis of bilateral relations and within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States. Azerbaijan is developing friendly relations with the United States, the United Kingdom, France and China. Close good-neighbourly ties link us with the countries of our region and of adjacent regions, countries such as Turkey, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Pakistan, with which we closely cooperate within the Organization of the Islamic Conference. Azerbaijan’s accession in May this year to the Partnership for Peace programme of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was an important event in the political life of our country. This programme attracts us with the idea of cooperation and interaction in the interests of common security. I welcome the accession of the former members of the Warsaw Pact to this programme. This fact gives hope to the whole of the Eurasian continent for peaceful cooperation, thereby ensuring security, progress and prosperity for all peoples, and thereby eventually eliminating the possibility of the emergence of new adversarial blocs. We hope that participation in the NATO programme will enhance the role of our country in the building of a new European security structure. 5 This year the Azerbaijan Republic was accorded the status of Observer in the Non-Aligned Movement, a step that provides us with a broad opportunity for the establishment of bilateral contacts in various fields and for the rapprochement of our positions with those of the States members of the Movement. The accession of the young Azerbaijani State to the United Nations as a full Member in January 1992 marked the most important stage in the development of our country. The scope of our cooperation with many United Nations international agencies has been expanding ever since. We appreciate especially the cooperation we enjoy with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. Concrete projects that are of great importance for the socio-economic development of our country have been elaborated as a result of the practical work of experts representing these large financial institutions. We assume that many possibilities exist for our fruitful cooperation with international financial institutions. We understand the prudence and concern demonstrated by the heads of the IMF and the World Bank with regard to the war conditions in which the Azerbaijani Republic has been engaged. At the same time, however, the IMF has given a structural adjustment loan to Armenia, which is in a state of war with us. We consider that justice requires at least a balanced approach in this matter. We are expecting a great deal from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in the way of technical assistance in the drawing up of national programmes for the development of market economy infrastructures, and assistance to enable our country make progress towards modern management methods and the application of advanced technologies. We attach especial attention to international economic cooperation, and it is with deep satisfaction that I should like to inform you that on 20 September 1994, as a result of long and difficult negotiations, the Azerbaijani Republic signed a contract with a consortium of large international oil companies for the joint development of the off-shore oilfields for a 30-year term in the Azerbaijani sector of the Caspian Sea. This landmark economic endeavour testifies to our policy of openness to the whole world, as well as to our policy of liberalizing the economy and attracting foreign investment. The signing of this unique contract will promote the strengthening of cooperation and rapprochement among the peoples and countries participating in its implementation, that is, Azerbaijan, the United States, Russia, the United Kingdom, Turkey, Norway and Saudi Arabia. In mentioning this, I should like once again to underline the fact that the Azerbaijani Republic is seeking full-fledged integration into the world community and has the full capacity to do so. For that reason the core of its policy is the aspiration for peace, and we pin great hopes on the United Nations in assisting us to achieve this peace. The Azerbaijani people have placed great confidence in me in electing me President of a young, independent State, and today it has been my privilege to convey to you its deepest aspirations. I leave this lofty rostrum of the General Assembly in the hope that the voice of my people will be heard by the members of the Assembly and that it will pave the way to their hearts. I wish, first of all, to warmly congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, a responsibility he will discharge effectively with the proven diplomatic skills with which he has served his country and his region so well. I take this opportunity also to applaud the good work and leadership of his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, who presided over the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. It is appropriate that on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of this Organization we enter a new era in international relations, an era untainted by the cold-war politics that held peace and positive change hostage for too long. Opportunities now abound for change and lasting peace. This new era demands that all Member States take a global view of how the Organization can best meet the objectives set out in the Charter. President Bill Clinton and President Boris Yeltsin demonstrated this new hope for peace at the opening of the general debate, when both addressed the General Assembly on the same day instead of on consecutive days, as was the old practice. In a spirit of cooperation, these two world leaders described their intent to reduce their nation’s stockpiles of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. But disarmament must start from the heart. And I hope that this is the case with the step these two Presidents have taken towards the betterment of all humankind. Today, we would recall that peace and hatred come from within people - the mirror of a nation, the image of a region and the living treasure of the global community. In order to build a peaceful and safe world for future generations, our resolve to reduce nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction must lie within the hearts of our leaders and policy makers throughout the world. We must therefore seize this opportunity and work together to build a better world. In this regard, Solomon Islands welcomes the various peace initiatives that continue to bring hope to the world community. The noble efforts of President Mandela to chart a new direction for South Africa must be commended. In his first address as the first President of the new democratic South Africa, President Mandela acknowledged the efforts of the international community in this way: 'The universal struggle against apartheid and its final dismantlement was not an act of charity arising out of pity for the majority of South African people but an affirmation of our common humanity.' Progress towards a lasting peace in the Middle East has renewed the hope of the international community for stability in that region. The parties involved in these negotiations deserve our sincere acclaim and praise and our continuing support. Replacing guns with meaningful handshakes often takes leaders beyond their physical nature and leads them to resort to their spiritual mindsets - a dimension that is often ignored but which is an essential ingredient in a recipe for conflict resolution. The cease-fire in Northern Ireland has changed people’s perception of the impossibility of the simple reality of living without guns and bullets. These are telling achievements for our times, and their roots are embedded in the human spirit of love and kindness. Despite United Nations interventions to restore intra-State and international peace and security, the world is still riddled with trouble spots and endangered by human-induced threats such as the potential impact of climate change and sea-level rise. We witness with horror the human suffering in Rwanda, Somalia, Angola, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Haiti. Solomon Islands calls on the parties concerned to lay down their arms and resort to non-violent means of negotiating peace. True and real peace has to spring from within the warring parties, replacing animosity. Close to home in the Solomon Islands is the five- year-old crisis on Bougainville, a province of Papua New Guinea. It spilled over into Solomon Islands and caused 15 a rift between the two countries. Nevertheless, through a process of mutual dialogue between the National Government of Papua New Guinea and the Bougainville Revolutionary Army, several important agreements have been signed. These include the Honiara commitments to peace, the cease-fire agreement and the historic peace-keeping agreement on Bougainville. The role of the Solomon Islands Government in this conflict has been conciliatory, facilitating peace negotiations amongst the parties concerned. Solomon Islands supports the Bougainville Peace Conference, expected to be convened on 10 October. This reflects our commitment to restoring peace and normalcy on Bougainville. Solomon Islands pledges its support and commitment to the ideals of the United Nations. We believe it to be the only world body capable of maintaining world peace and security. Solomon Islands shares the views of New Zealand’s Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Right Honourable Don McKinnon, whose statement at the general debate provided six important management issues that should be addressed while conducting United Nations peace-keeping operations. There is no doubt in my mind that all of us want an effective United Nations - an Organization that meets the objectives it sets out to achieve, an Organization whose Charter is valid because its actions are reliable. Solomon Islands welcomes the current initiatives undertaken by the Secretary-General in reforming the Organization and supports proposals made by other Member States for further reforms. These reforms, in our view, must also reflect the needs of small island developing States such as my own, particularly the need to remove 'the floor' to enable Member States to meet their financial obligations. Some want to pay their assessed annual contributions but do not have the capacity to do so; hence a relative and fair formula should be worked out. In his report (A/49/1) on the work of the Organization, the Secretary-General has identified peace, the economy, the environment, justice and democracy as the five interlocking pillars of development. These will provide the foundations for the kind of development that will ensure human progress. 'An Agenda for Peace' paved the way forward from the dark ages of the cold war; the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development was a reawakening initiative to save planet Earth; the Second World Conference on Human Rights sought to establish universal rights for all peoples throughout the world irrespective of race, creed, political affiliation or sex; the International Conference on Population and Development saw the need to control the soaring world population, which now stands at 5.7 billion; and next year the World Summit for Social Development and the World Conference on Women will address poverty, unemployment, social integration and the empowerment of women to take their rightful place in society. These are efforts of Member States committed to the noble cause of securing a peaceful, safe and sustainable world to live in. To achieve these noble goals, an effective global partnership is of paramount importance. Technology has made the world’s smaller economies become more interdependent. Agenda 21, the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, made a special case for small island developing States because of their peculiar vulnerabilities. The response to this call was the convening of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in Barbados in April this year. The passage from Rio to Barbados, at least for small island developing States, was a Programme of Action outlining national, regional and international actions. Our collective support is needed to implement this. If we agree that development takes many forms and requires different responses, then our task will be made easier if we act together. Solomon Islands fully supports the Barbados Programme of Action and calls on the members of the international community to honour their commitments as spelled out in Agenda 21. The successful implementation of the Programme of Action will depend on these commitments. The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in his 'Agenda for Peace' report to the Security Council, stressed that cooperation with regional arrangements and organizations could be of great benefit to Member States if their activities were consistent with the purposes and principles of the Charter and governed by the provisions of Chapter VIII. Some of those bodies have already gained observer status at the United Nations. This shows the useful role these arrangements and organizations can play in international affairs. Therefore, the strengthening of regional arrangements and organizations that are working closely with the United Nations is a critical issue. In this regard, Solomon Islands strongly supports the decision by the South Pacific Forum to seek United Nations observer status at the forty-ninth session of the 16 General Assembly. We acknowledge with gratitude the role of Australia, the current Chairman of the South Pacific Forum, in guiding this initiative through the United Nations system on the Forum’s behalf. We thank Member States that have expressed support for this call and invite others to do likewise. As a member of the South Pacific Forum and the Melanesian Spearhead Group, Solomon Islands endorses the Forum Communiqué issued following the meeting of the twenty-fifth South Pacific Forum held in Brisbane, Australia, this year. We are a party to the Joint Declaration on Economic and Trade Cooperation signed in Solomon Islands this year between Papua New Guinea, Vanuatu and Solomon Islands. Solomon Islands calls upon the international community to support our regional arrangements and organizations from which our strength for collective action is derived and which are responsible for our flow of communication. Forestry and fisheries resources remain my country’s main income earners. The Solomon Islands Government is gravely concerned about the unsustainable utilization and management of these resources and has taken steps to ensure sustainable harvesting and conservation measures and to form a national policy. We are party to Agreements reached in Brisbane at the meeting of the South Pacific Forum to cooperate on a wider basis in order to ensure sustainable development of fisheries and forestry resources in our region. Because of the fragility of our ecological system, our biodiversity resources, including forestry and fisheries and other marine living resources, are threatened. It is heartening to note that after 12 years of negotiations the world will witness the coming into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in November this year. However, we strongly feel that further cooperation is still needed from the distant water fishing nations regarding sustainable harvesting of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks, including non-targeted species. We therefore urge distant-water fishing nations to come to grips with the need to complete, as soon as practicable, negotiations on a legally binding agreement on proper conservation and management and sustainable utilization of high seas fisheries resources. Education is a priority sector in my country. It is a key to the effective management of my country’s natural resources as well as a means of achieving the advancement of women to take their rightful place in society. There is a direct link between the education of women and population control. We welcome the outcome of the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development and look forward to the World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing in 1995. The World Summit for Social Development also has profound implications for capacity-building, institutional strengthening and the transfer of technologies and their appropriate use. Human-centred activities, including tourism development and skills training, are important for the development of human resources. We endorse the 1994 Human Development Report of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for its emphasis on human-centred development, an approach that has positive ripple effects in solving other social problems. Drug trafficking and the criminal activities associated with it worry us in the Pacific, and we are not alone in this. We need international cooperation to stop the movement of illegal drugs from one region to another. Solomon Islands supports the South Pacific Forum position that the non-proliferation Treaty (NPT) should be extended indefinitely. However, we would like to see firm commitments from the nuclear-weapon States to show the world a leadership role in reducing their stockpiles. We also wish to see a rigid review mechanism set up to be a safeguard instrument as an integral part of the indefinite extension agreement. It is encouraging to hear the United States, the Russian Federation and China speak in support of the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the comprehensive test-ban treaty. It is hoped that a level of harmony between the NPT, the comprehensive test-ban treaty and the cut-off convention may be maintained to enhance the elimination of weapons of mass destruction in an integrated manner. Solomon Islands urges the post-Forum dialogue partners that have not yet done so to ratify the South Pacific nuclear-free zone Treaty. Nuclear testing in the Pacific is not part of our vocabulary. Consistent with our belief in a nuclear-free world, waste dumping in the Pacific Ocean is not to be encouraged. We strongly oppose those who may violate this natural rule. We also firmly oppose the transshipment and transboundary movement of plutonium in the South Pacific region. We need to see some further movement towards a speedy implementation of the Matignon Accords. In this regard, we request the Government of France and the 17 territorial authorities to increase their efforts to achieve real economic and social rebalancing. Solomon Islands welcomes the move to formulate an agenda and proposals to promote trade and investment between the United States and the Pacific Islands, which will be the subject of a meeting at the East-West Centre in Hawaii later this year. Apart from the other vulnerabilities that plague small island developing States, the potential impact of climate change and rising sea levels poses a great threat to Pacific islands. There is overwhelming scientific evidence pointing to the danger we now face. In this regard, Solomon Islands supports the Alliance of Small Island States, which has submitted to next year’s Conference of the parties to the Convention on Climate Change an additional protocol aimed at securing a reduction of the emission of greenhouse gases to the 1990s level by 2005, a protocol to which the industrialized countries would be obliged to be parties. We in Solomon Islands firmly believe that the Republic of China on Taiwan has much to contribute to the work of the United Nations and its specialized agencies in terms of international cooperation and development. This Republic, with a population more than 58 times that of my own country and highly technologically advanced, deserves to be admitted as a Member of the United Nations. The full participation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the important work of the United Nations would be an affirmation of the Charter and of democracy and a manifestation of the human spirit’s pursuit of a better quality of life for humankind. In my Government’s view, a move as noble as the admission of the Republic of China on Taiwan would be not an obstacle to reunification, but a catalyst in the process. In our view, the Secretary-General should use his good offices to encourage the establishment of a committee specifically to facilitate and/or work progressively towards the re-entry of the Republic of China to membership of the United Nations. President Ernesto Samper Pizano of the Republic of Colombia, speaking from this podium, described Colombia as 'a country searching for peace because it so loves life.' (Official Records of the General Assembly, forty-ninth session, Plenary Meetings, 5th meeting, p. 8) We in Solomon Islands, too, love life very much, and our search is for a better quality of life, which should flow from the wise and sustainable development of our resources. Collectively, however, our search must be for world peace so that we can live up to our dreams, visions and God-given potential. I believe that the answer to the problem of bringing about world peace lies in our own hearts, not in the barrels of guns or military might. Here, in this great world Assembly, let our hearts enkindle a new torch to shine on the new path to world peace, from the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and beyond. On behalf of the Dominican Republic and its Constitutional President, Mr. Joaquin Balaguer, I offer to the President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, our congratulations on his well-deserved election. Likewise, our delegation pays a tribute of gratitude to Ambassador Samuel Insanally, for his stewardship of the work of the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, and, especially, to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has dedicated all his time and effort to ensuring full observance of the purposes and principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. My Government’s policy towards the pressing need for development is exemplified by the urgent efforts it is making on behalf of its people in the changing context of today’s world. Forty-nine years ago, when the United Nations system was created following the end of a second major world- wide conflagration, the idea and hope prevailed of bringing about a new world order that would exorcize the spectre of war and, once and for all, do away with war’s attendant human degradation and hatred. However, the victorious emergence of two ideologically opposed Powers led to the creation of a bipolar international system that gave birth to the so-called cold war, marked by lateral confrontation and an arms race which, because of the ever-present possibility of direct confrontation, could have led to a nuclear holocaust and the annihilation of mankind. Thus it was that the General Assembly became the stage par excellence for the airing and debate of the most urgent world-wide problems. While its political effectiveness may not have met all the requirements of peace because of the structure of world power that had prevailed since 1945, it did achieve overwhelming success in the actions and programmes of its specialized agencies. Born to foster peace and security and to promote development, the United Nations was the fruit of the post- Second-World-War era. At that time peace meant the absence of war and of the justifiable fear of world-wide self-destruction. The hope for a renewed international order based on new values has gained momentum. Unique and monumentaL events symbolized by the razing of the 'wall of infamy' have created the propitious conditions and opportunities for recapturing and relaunching the lofty goals of the signers of the San Francisco Charter. Those events summon us to struggle for a world built on solidarity, respect for the self-determination of peoples, and the quest for a better standard of living for all. A new world and its agonizing challenges require new answers and clear and unambiguous objectives combined with an iron will to achieve them. The human being must be at the centre of all concerns. Our efforts must thus be aimed at combating poverty and achieving social justice. We must foster new democratic ways for the exercise of power and genuine respect for human rights. In other words, we must ensure that democracy works, prospers and prevails. Unquestionably, the present-day world is beset by economic and political complexities incompatible with the aspirations of people everywhere to a decent life. Globalization of the economy, intense financial competition, national cultural diversity, and the various tensions between groups, countries and regions, typified by the ethnic and religious regional conflicts of recent years, constitute the features of the new reality. The answers to these challenges and problems are no longer to be found in the use of arms. They lie in the will to build a consensus and in the ability to promote development through fair competition regulated by rules that are accepted by all participants. Unless world peace is at stake, the threat or use of force is no longer a viable instrument for achieving the decent life to which all peoples are entitled. 11 How, then, can we defend democracy and ensure that, rather than perish, it becomes stronger and more effective in dealing with starvation, unemployment, drug trafficking, the depletion of natural resources, forced migration and the new forms of trade protectionism that undermine development? If, indeed, we are to protect human rights and strengthen democracy, we must undertake a thorough review of this whole issue and of the very concept of development on the basis of equitable access to markets, capital and new technologies. The Dominican Republic is one of the most solid and deeply rooted democracies on the American continent. It is one of the few Latin American democracies in modern times with a record of lasting and commendable political stability. It is an example of harmonious and civilized coexistence in a society marked by contrasts. We have shown to the world that our democracy is participatory, with reconciliation and dialogue as the channels for the solution of the major political and economic crises that we have experienced. In the economic arena, global interdependence poses challenges, and yet offers opportunities. We must therefore make progress in harmonizing financial, technological and production policies in order to achieve growth at all levels. The development of the most industrialized nations may be inadequate without the growth of developing nations. The greatest growth in outlets for the commodities of industrialized countries will be found in the markets of developing countries. We are witnessing a transition towards trade liberalization that can lead to freer trade and the eradication of poverty through the creation of more and better jobs. However, certain threats appear on the horizon. One of them is neoprotectionism. Even though the 'barbed- wire' hostility of former protectionist tariffs is being dismantled, the re-emerging protectionism may not be based on tariffs, but it conceals certain invisible, yet genuine enemies: environmental regulations, customs barriers, quotas, anti-'dumping' rules, social clauses and others. In this way the aspirations to free trade may become mere rhetoric. Impoverishment is another threat. Are we fully aware that opening up our economies can cause us to overlook the need to properly administer their attendant social costs? Unemployment and the acceleration of social investment plans threaten to negate the efforts we have made over many years to democratize our political systems. While the formation of economic blocs is an established fact, it gives us pause nevertheless: To what extent might this phenomenon constitute a stumbling block for a world based on the democratic rules of free trade and on equal conditions for all? As members know, more emphasis is placed on selling than on producing. However, we do not have adequate means of production or fair access to them; yet we are supposed to compete on an equal basis with the more industrialized countries of the world. These are not invalid complaints and claims. New rules must be worked out to permit developing countries to gain access to technology and finance their infrastructures on favourable terms - in other words, to attain practical and acceptable levels of competitiveness. How can we meet these new challenges? To begin with, any development policy must attempt to modernize our sources of production. If we have little or nothing to sell, what is the point of continuing to open up our markets? This is closely linked to the development of a proper transport and communication infrastructure and to the optimum use of energy sources. We must thus create new conditions of productivity, particularly in the fields of technology social development. If human beings are to be the focus of all development policy, the fostering of effective programmes becomes the best possible business. An investment in health, education and housing is profitable not only socially but economically. All these initiatives and actions to meet the new challenges that stem from the globalization of the economy must be viewed in that context. Therefore we need a new kind of cooperation, which must be the keynote of international activities. Among other things, we must adjust national policies to global objectives. We should be able to achieve a new idea of cooperation. Cooperation is the alternative to intervention, the way to fulfil the international community’s desires for peace, stability and democracy. In this new age, we must be keenly aware of the trends that are shaping the end of this century and the beginning of the next. The world is becoming smaller, more interdependent and globalized; the survival of human life is gravely threatened by the deterioration of 12 the environment and by short-sighted, uncoordinated policies to stem the tide of problems besetting the planet. We in the Dominican Republic, have our share of problems, but one stands out: we live geographically next door to the poorest nation of the hemisphere. Haiti has written glorious pages in the history of the struggle for freedom and equality. Its past, heavy with confrontation and long periods of authoritarian rule, has unfortunately turned it into a nation requiring international assistance. There must therefore be a determined and generous show of cooperation on the part of the international community so that the Haitian people may pursue its destiny - economic and social, as well as political. The Dominican Republic has always been ready to cooperate in effective initiatives for the betterment and viability of needy countries, whose peoples have every right to live in dignity, with all the opportunities offered to others. The problem of drug trafficking and narcotics consumption continues to be a scourge of world-wide dimensions. It is the Dominican Republic’s State policy to deal most severely, in keeping with our legal provisions, with the trafficking, consumption and possession of narcotic drugs. What is more, our country has offered, and will continue to offer, its cooperation to other nations in the apprehension, prosecution or extradition of those who have made this criminal trade the most lucrative activity of our new times. Although the developed countries are the most attractive market for the sale of narcotic drugs, the underdeveloped countries, whether or not they are producers of narcotic drugs, have seen an increase in drug addiction too. The entire international community must continue resolutely to deal with this scourge so that drug abuse does not become the side effect of a seductively excessive well-being or the amnesia-inducing product that helps some to cope with poverty. The Dominican Republic, a nation of pacifist traditions, will continue to support the efforts of the United Nations in preventing armed conflicts and in the establishment, maintenance and consolidation of international peace and the internal peace of all nations. In another field of endeavour, the Dominican Republic retains the concern voiced at last year’s session of the Assembly on the proposal made by the Secretary-General to merge the United Nations International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW) and the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM). INSTRAW was conceived at the first World Conference of the International Women’s Year, held in Mexico City, and was created pursuant to the decision of the Economic and Social Council. The Dominican Republic takes this occasion to reiterate its request that INSTRAW and UNIFEM not be merged. We also request retention of the commitments entered into under Economic and Social Council resolution 1998/LX, of 12 May 1976, which establishes the permanent headquarters of INSTRAW in the Dominican Republic, so that our great city in the Americas may continue to host that important organ. We are deluding ourselves if we think that peace, security and development can be pursued as separate goals at either the national level or the international level. The new order and new balance that are coming into being call for new ways of thinking and new priorities. They require a reappraisal of current international realities in the light of established norms with regard to the sovereignty of all nations and recognition of the pluralism of the world’s peoples. The new era demands that confrontation turn into dialogue and that calls for justice be replaced by shared commitments of peoples. The promising, peaceful future of which we all speak in meetings and assemblies will come about if, above all, we, the Governments of our region, do our bit, without haggling or imposing conditions, according to our material and leadership potential. Let me join other representatives who have spoken before in congratulating you, Sir, on your unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your election to this high office is a demonstration both of the confidence that Member States have in you and of the respect they have for your beautiful country, Cote d'Ivoire. We are confident that under your wise guidance our deliberations at this session will achieve the desired results. I also wish to pay tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Insanally of Guyana, for steering the forty- eighth session to a successful conclusion. During his presidency, Ambassador Insanally undertook several initiatives aimed at strengthening the General Assembly and improving its relationship with the other organs of the United Nations. We thank him for his dynamic and imaginative leadership. May I also extend our congratulations to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General, on the untiring and visionary manner in which he is managing the affairs of the Organization. The peace dividend expected after the end of the cold war, four years ago, is yet to be realized. On the contrary, the world has been faced with the escalation of new conflicts and in some cases the intensification of old conflicts. The disappearance of the great ideological rivalry between the East and the West has enabled the United Nations more constructively to play its central role of facilitating conflict resolution and maintaining international peace and security. The emerging international situation has however brought with it new challenges to which the international community should respond in a dynamic manner and within the framework of the United Nations Charter. Kenya supports the ongoing efforts aimed at reforming the United Nations with a view to adapting to the new challenges, and hopes that these efforts will be intensified during this session of the General Assembly. We welcome progress already made in the reform of the economic and social sectors of the Organization as well as the revitalization of the working of the General Assembly. However, more needs to be done, particularly in the context of the new Agenda for Development. Furthermore, a great deal still remains to be done in reforming the Security Council to enhance its effectiveness, its transparency and its relationship with the General Assembly as well as Member States. The open-ended Working Group of the General Assembly on the question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council has been able to highlight, substantially, areas where the Security Council needs to be reformed. It is our hope that the Working Group will reach a consensus on this vital exercise before the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. The role of the Security Council has become critical in the new era. Kenya is cognizant, and appreciative, of the special responsibilities entrusted to the five permanent members of the Security Council. However, the circumstances which led to the creation of the present membership structure have changed. It is therefore crucial that the membership of the Council reflect these changes and incorporate regional interests for a more balanced distribution of seats. The United Nations is currently involved in an unprecedented number of peace-keeping operations. This clearly underlines the growing confidence of the international community in the role of the United Nations. During the forty-seventh session, the Assembly adopted the Agenda for Peace, which emphasized preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace-keeping. The most rewarding parts of this three-pronged strategy are the first two - namely, preventive diplomacy and peacemaking. This is especially true, when we consider that mobilization for peace-keeping is usually very slow. We are therefore convinced that the United Nations should invest more in preventive diplomacy and development to avoid the human catastrophes we have witnessed recently in many parts of the world, particularly Africa. We happily welcome the victory of democracy in South Africa and the dismantling of apartheid. Kenya heartily congratulates President Nelson Mandela, his Government and the people of South Africa on the peaceful transition to a new democratic and multiracial South Africa. We are also delighted with the peaceful resolution of the territorial dispute between Chad and Libya. The positive developments in Mozambique and Burundi towards peaceful resolution of long-standing conflicts are indeed commendable. A comprehensive settlement of the Middle East conflict is now on a steady course with the ongoing implementation of the accord between Israel and Palestine and the recently concluded peace agreement between Jordan and Israel. We congratulate all the parties and encourage them to widen and intensify the peace processes. International peace and security can flourish only if peace and stability exist in individual countries. The fundamental responsibility of ensuring peace and stability lies with the individual countries themselves. The Charter of the United Nations clearly underscores that responsibility under the principles of sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of States. With the recent resurgence of problems based on ethnicity and of nationalism, sustained effort is required at the national level to forge national consensus. All nations have to build their democracies on the basis of their national circumstances, experiences, traditions and aspirations, but within the context of the universal values and norms of democracy, good governance and human rights. The international community also has an important role to play in the support of national efforts towards the strengthening of democratic processes, sustainable development, peace and security. Very often, international conflicts are fanned by the struggle for the sharing of scant resources and public offices in the absence of a wide economic base to absorb competing interests. Development needs, therefore, have to be addressed from a wider perspective. The international community's support for institutional capacity-building and human resources development is pivotal to sustainable development, peace and security. Over the last year, the international community has witnessed the intensification of some perennial conflicts. The experiences of Rwanda, Somalia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sudan and Liberia clearly demonstrate that there is no substitute for a political settlement negotiated between the parties to the conflicts. At the same time, the international community, particularly the United Nations, should be tireless in its efforts to assist parties to reach lasting solutions to these conflicts. In this connection, regional bodies need to be strengthened, as their role in supporting development and facilitating solutions to national conflicts cannot be overstressed. The escalation of conflicts in one country has left neighbouring countries flooded with refugees and other spill-over effects, including the spread of banditry and illegal arms. Accordingly, we welcome the draft declaration on the strengthening of the cooperation between the United Nations and the regional organizations, and arrangements in the maintenance of international peace and security. Adoption of that declaration at this session of the General Assembly will be an important milestone towards strengthening the role of the regional bodies in the maintenance of international peace and security under the overall responsibility of the Security Council. The magnitude of the Rwandese human disaster calls for extraordinary efforts in the mobilization of the United Nations system and the international community to stop the suffering of the Rwandese people and to restore normalcy to that unfortunate country. The decision to scale down the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda at that critical time contributed to the vacuum that resulted in the estimated loss of 1 million lives, with about 4 million people being internally displaced or fleeing as refugees. The experience of Rwanda calls for fundamental changes to United Nations peace-keeping operations to ensure an adequate, timely and effective response. We take this opportunity to commend the neighbouring countries for accommodating so many refugees and offering logistical support for humanitarian operations. We also commend the countries, international organizations and non-governmental organizations that have been extending critical humanitarian support. We are encouraged by the assurance of the new Government that it will foster the reconciliation of the Rwandese people. This calls for the intensification of international effort aimed at restoring normalcy in Rwanda. Kenya, for its part, has continued to play a facilitating role in the supply of humanitarian assistance to Rwanda. On Somalia, we strongly believe that the continued presence of United Nations peace-keeping personnel is critical in the pursuit of peace and security in the country if we are to avoid the deterioration of a situation that is already unacceptable. We note with concern the Secretary-General's report on the growing incidence of violence and attacks on United Nations soldiers as well as the inability of the Somali faction leaders to agree on a formula for the creation of an interim central authority. While we commend the efforts of the international community in the search for a settlement to the Somali conflict, we are greatly concerned about the failure of the faction leaders to utilize the opportunities afforded by the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) and the Organization of African Unity, as well as the neighbouring countries, to bring an end to the conflict. Somalia is a sister country with which we share an 800-kilometre border, family relations, and ethnic and cultural affinities. The very heavy influx of Somali refugees into Kenya has had a devastating effect on the most ecologically fragile parts of the country. The refugee burden on my country is still excessively high, with about 300,000 registered refugees. Kenya is cooperating closely with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in accelerating the resettlement and voluntary repatriation of refugees. Physical and social infrastructures have also been overextended due to excessive usage. The national efforts aimed at mitigating the negative effects caused by the influx of refugees in the border region are constrained by the magnitude of the problem and the competing security, administrative and development commitments in the area. In this regard, while appreciating various forms of assistance from the international donor community, including the non-governmental organizations, to address the problem, Kenya further appeals to the United Nations and the donor community to assist in the financing of the rehabilitation of the physical and social infrastructure as well as the restoration of the region's ecosystem. The border region security dimension is another issue of great concern to Kenya. Our people and our security personnel have been subjected to numerous acts of banditry by armed gangs crossing into Kenya from Somalia. For this reason, we are reiterating our request to the Secretary-General to reinforce the UNOSOM patrols along the Somalia side of the border so as to complement the efforts of Kenyan security personnel on our side of the border. We believe that the joint security efforts will significantly scale down the flow of armed gangs and individuals into the Kenyan side. The problem in the Sudan has been of great concern not only to Kenya and the neighbouring countries, but also to the international community. After four rounds of negotiations in the past year, it has become apparent that the regional peace efforts spearheaded by Presidents Yoweri Museveni of Uganda, Isaias Afewerki of Eritrea and Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia, under the chairmanship of President Daniel T. Arap Moi of Kenya, within the framework of Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGAD), have so far not been able to bridge the differences between the parties to the conflict. We appeal to all parties involved in the conflict to be flexible in the search for a just and lasting solution. The international community has an important role to play not only in terms of humanitarian assistance but also in facilitating the settlement of the fundamental differences between the parties. In this regard, Kenya is very grateful to the Governments of Norway, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the many others that have generously provided material and financial assistance to the process. On Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are greatly concerned that despite many serious attempts at a negotiated settlement no solution is in sight. Kenya strongly appeals to the combatants to opt for a negotiated settlement for the sake of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Kenya is substantially involved in United Nations peace-keeping activities, having contributed military and civilian police personnel to various peace-keeping operations world wide. The enormous rise in the number and scope of peace-keeping operations demands that the ability of the United Nations Secretariat to cope with such large-scale operations be strengthened. While peace-keeping will continue to be a vital responsibility of the United Nations, the adequate financing of these operations, which now represents a substantial portion of the United Nations budget, is critical to their success. In this regard, we urge Member States to pay their assessed contributions in full and on time in order to enable the Organization to respond effectively to the enormous challenges posed by peace-keeping operations. The budgetary system for the peace-keeping operations also requires improvement. Notwithstanding the fact that peace-keeping operations are temporary by nature, it is cumbersome to approve budgets for periods of one to three months and usually retroactively. The current practice of piecemeal budgets compounds United Nations cash-flow problems, leading to the stifling of the operations of the Organization. Consequently, troop-contributing countries continue to subsidize United Nations peace-keeping operations at great sacrifice, a situation which cannot be sustained, especially by developing countries. My delegation is also concerned over the growing number of fatalities and injuries among United Nations peace-keeping soldiers and other personnel deployed by the Organization. In this regard, the ongoing efforts to elaborate a convention on responsibility for attacks on such personnel and measures to ensure that the culprits are brought to justice is a positive response by the international community to this problem. The world's economy continues to reflect sharp contrasts between countries and regions, with the industrialized countries, China and the South-East Asia region showing slight to rapid economic growth rates. The situation in Africa, on the other hand, is still of great concern, as the region's economy continues to show no signs of tangible recovery. The continent remains highly vulnerable to adverse international economic policies as well as to natural calamities, such as drought and epidemics, owing to its limited capacity to develop institutions and systems to cushion populations from these types of calamities. This situation has been compounded by the persistent recurrence of drought, debt burden, a decline in financial flows, low commodity prices, and the implementation of painful but necessary economic reforms and the uncertainties associated with major political reforms. My country and many other African countries have in the past few years undertaken fundamental reforms to create, among other things, an environment conducive to encouraging investment flows as a necessary ingredient for economic growth and development. This underscores the determination of the African countries to speed up the recovery and growth of the economies. However, the sustainability of these efforts requires increased international assistance to facilitate an early realization of the objectives of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa. We hope that at this time, when many developing countries are implementing major structural reforms and the liberalization of trade policies, the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the setting-up of the World Trade Organization will lead to the elimination of all trade barriers and the expansion of international trade. The mounting debt burden of the African countries, especially those of sub-Saharan Africa, continues to be a major constraint to economic growth and development. The problem of debt in Africa is worsened by the persistent low economic growth rates of the continent's economies. It is evident that the various measures taken by the international community on bilateral and multilateral bases to mitigate the situation, though welcome, have achieved limited results. Kenya believes that a lasting solution to the debt burden is a bold initiative for an effective reduction or cancellation of the bilateral and multilateral debt of the low-income countries, particularly in Africa. The 'Agenda for Development', as an instrument for the promotion of an action-oriented approach to economic growth and development parallel to the 'Agenda for Peace' as presented by the Secretary-General, should be given paramount attention by this Assembly. The essence of it should be the recognition that development is a fundamental human right and that peace and development are intertwined and mutually reinforcing. Kenya affirms, however, that the State continues to bear the primary responsibility for its development while recognizing the importance of the complementary role of the international community. Kenya subscribes fully to the view that the new Agenda for Development should be people-centred. While recognizing the importance of overall economic development needs, action programmes must give appropriate priority to the education, training, health and welfare of the people. The Agenda should take into account the fundamental role of science and technology in socio-economic development, particularly for developing countries. Indeed, the new Agenda for Development should become an instrument for promoting a new consensus on international cooperation for development, rather than a process of negotiations for financial needs. Kenya welcomes the finalization of the elaboration of an international convention to combat desertification. The degradation of fragile dry lands is increasing at an accelerated rate and claiming millions of hectares every year. The afflicted countries are fully aware of their responsibilities to fight this imminent threat, but their efforts will not bear fruit without the support of the international community. The mobilization of resources as called for in Agenda 21 remains critical. Commitments of new and additional financial resources to fund environmental projects, as agreed upon in Rio, should be honoured. My delegation welcomes the recent restructuring and replenishment of the Global Environmental Facility as a positive step towards the fulfilment of some of the Rio commitments. My delegation welcomes the establishment of the Office of Internal Oversight Services, headed by an Under-Secretary-General. We hope that the establishment of this Office will lead to greater efficiency and the reduction of waste and mismanagement, which the international community can ill afford. We also hope that the United Nations will now foster greater transparency in the awarding of United Nations contracts and in the procurement of goods and services, taking into account the cost-effectiveness of obtaining such goods and services from sources closer to the recipient countries. As a country that is host to one of the United Nations centres, Kenya wishes to reiterate its commitment to cooperating with the United Nations in its efforts to strengthen the United Nations Centre in Nairobi, the capacity of which remains underutilized despite its enormous potential. In this connection, Kenya urges that the permanent secretariats of environmentally-related conventions, including those on biodiversity, climate change and desertification, be located in Nairobi, taking into full account the need for utilization of the capacity of the new secretariats and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) as well as the human-settlement secretariats based in the United Nations Centre in Nairobi. Indeed, this would be consistent with the wish of the General Assembly and the governing bodies of the two organizations concerned, which have called for the strengthening, harmonization, cost-effectiveness and enhancement of the efficiency of UNEP and other United Nations programmes. The recently concluded International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo clearly underlines the resolve of the international community to coordinate actions and strategies on social development as envisaged in the United Nations Charter. The resolve of the international community to deal with the problems of population and development in accordance with the Cairo Programme of Action, which was adopted by consensus, gives us a strong basis for tackling population problems. Kenya associates itself with the preparations and anticipated positive results of the forthcoming World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen. We hope that the Summit will come up with programmes and commitments which will effectively address the problems of poverty and social integration and lead to sustainable economic growth and broad-based social development. We are of the view that national action and international cooperation should give priority to the eradication of poverty, the elimination of obstacles to economic and social development, the expansion of productive employment, and the creation of a favourable international economic and social environment. The Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing, China, in 1995 offers a suitable opportunity to build on the successes of the 1985 Nairobi Forward- looking Strategies and to solidify the gains of women in all spheres of life. All necessary steps at the national, - regional and international levels should be taken to develop a political, economic, social and cultural environment conducive to the full integration of women into sustainable processes of development. Kenya also looks forward to the successful outcome of the second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (HABITAT II) to be held in Istanbul, Turkey, in 1996. In order to ensure broad-based national preparations for the Conference, the national Steering Committee has prepared a work programme incorporating the mobilization of action in the shelter sector so as to create public awareness. My delegation acknowledges the significant progress made in the preparatory process by the HABITAT II secretariat in Nairobi, under the direction of the Secretary-General of the Conference, Mr. Wally N'Dow. However, financial limitations are hampering elements of the preparatory process. We hope that these constraints will soon be overcome. Any durable international system must have a sound legal regime, backed by principles of respect for and compliance with the rule of law at domestic and international levels. The recognition by States of their obligation to abide by these principles is not only an indispensable requirement, but also forms the fabric of international norms and standards which guide lawful international behaviour. It is in this context, therefore, that we hail the decision to hold an International Congress on International Law in March 1995 here in New York, under the framework of the United Nations Decade of International Law. In 1989, Kenya joined the growing number of nations that have ratified the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. A few weeks from today, on 16 November 1994, the world community will witness the entry into force of this Convention. This long-awaited event, which marks the culmination of a process started many years ago, is a significant milestone in the human endeavour to create a new legal order for the oceans. African States do not possess the requisite scientific knowledge, technological capacity and management skills to be able to explore and exploit the marine living and non-living resources. The Convention, as well as Agenda 21, both of which furnish the basic blueprint for cooperation in marine and ocean areas, have laid emphasis on the significance of the development of manpower, technological capacity and training, particularly in the developing countries. We believe that these and other allied problems should be addressed to enable African countries to derive benefits from the rights and opportunities offered by the Convention. It is our hope that, following the successful conclusion and adoption of the agreement on the implementation of deep seabed mining, all States will now become parties to the Convention, in order to secure universal participation. In conclusion, we feel confident that, as we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the international community has the requisite resources and talents to deal effectively with the global concerns and challenges facing it. In particular, the Organization will have to address the crucial issues of maintenance of international peace and security, sustainable development, the environment, humanitarian issues and reform of the United Nations. In conformity with the aspirations of the Charter expressed in the words 'We the peoples', everybody throughout the world has high expectations of this Organization. We cannot and must not let them down Allow me to join preceding speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the current session of the United Nations General Assembly. I should also like to pay a tribute to His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally for his successful leadership as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I should like to express our gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and I should like to thank him for his substantive contribution to enhancing the authority of the United Nations and his efforts with a view to the maintenance of peace in various regions of the planet. For me, it is a great honor to address the Assembly today from this lofty rostrum on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan. Just recently, Uzbekistan marked the third anniversary of the proclamation of its independence. During this time, our country has undertaken significant efforts to strengthen the sovereignty of the States based on the principles of democracy and to set up a free market structure. Profound economic and political transformations are taking place in the Republic with a view to the formation of a socially oriented market economy. Today, a process of reform in Uzbekistan has reached a new qualitative level. The Parliament and the Government have adopted a number of significant and fundamental laws and decrees which are now opening the way to developing entrepreneurship and privatization. New legislation guarantees the protection of private property. A number of legislative and economic incentives for potential foreign investors have been provided, and an extremely favor favorable environment has been created for their activities in the Republic's markets. For example, all limitations on the importation and exportation of foreign investments have been lifted. Customs duties for goods imported into Uzbekistan have also been canceled. Joint ventures are exempt from taxes for five years. The process of privatization of State property is under way in the Republic. Commodity, currency and stock exchanges, as well as real estate markets, are being set up. The most important process of introducing the national currency was recently completed in Uzbekistan. Implementation of the measures jointly agreed upon with the International Monetary Fund will make it possible to have a firm fiscal policy and will strengthen the national currency. Perhaps there is no country in the world that has sufficient experience to extend ready advice on how to change social and economic structures smoothly. The complicated and very often controversial processes of the transition to democracy and a market economy are being carried out mainly on an empirical basis, and sometimes in a highly contradictory situation. An extremely complicated task for the people of Uzbekistan is the perception of the basic principles of democracy and the socially oriented market economy, while at the same time preserving the development of its own rich history and unique culture and traditions. This is assuming today a decisive significance in the successful realization of the task of renewing our society and in the construction of an independent State. The steps the Government of Uzbekistan has been undertaking in order to reshape the political structure of the State have one more important aspect. They are not a goal in themselves; they are aimed at establishing conditions of social justice. In fact, in many countries, social justice has already long been recognized as a fundamental principle of social life. In essence, if we look at the future in the long term, without justice there cannot be any kind of stability, peace or security. There cannot be any social development, any freedom for the individual, human dignity or an acceptable quality of life for all. The Constitution of Uzbekistan grants to all citizens of the Republic basic rights and freedoms and provides for their equality before the law without distinction as to sex, race, nationality, language, religion, social standing, or personal beliefs. The number of political parties and social movements which are operating on the basis of the laws and decrees that have been adopted and incorporated into the political system is gradually increasing. They will be taking part in the parliamentary elections which will be held in Uzbekistan in December 1994 on a multi-party basis. Speaking about political processes, I should like to touch upon the issue of human rights. First of all, allow me to point out that the modem concept of the basic rights and freedoms of individuals was formed mainly on the basis of a Western system of values and elaborated over a long period of time, under specific cultural and social conditions, and developed as part and parcel of economic growth and better standards of living in Western countries. This experience is hardly one that could be mechanically transferred to other countries. We do believe, however, that universally accepted human rights concepts should be adapted to the national, religious and historical characteristics of different countries. International practice has in many cases demonstrated that unless society has reached a sufficient level of maturity and sustains it, it will be compelled to a certain extent to constrain the freedom of the individual for the sake of the preservation of the constitutional order. Today we live in a multidimensional world. Each nation is eager to establish its own political, social and cultural systems on the basis of respect for the national sovereignty of other States and the principle of noninterference in their internal affairs. Therefore, we consider the question of human rights in close connection with that of the need to guarantee to the country stability and peace as the primary conditions for democratic development. I hope that the recent seminar of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) on general issues, held in Tashkent, the capital of Uzbekistan, provided an opportunity to the international observers and its participants to see the gradual evolution of our society towards democracy. At the same time, the seminar has deepened our knowledge on possible ways to make progress in the field of human rights. Unfortunately, the end of the confrontation between two social and political systems, which reached its peak in the military sphere, has not brought about universal peace. The threat of global thermonuclear war has been reduced. Yet the world has encountered the emergence of several regional military conflicts. In this regard, I would like to make known Uzbekistan's position on the situations in Afghanistan and Tajikistan. First of all, we consider that settlement of these conflicts is solely the internal affair of Afghanistan and Tajikistan. At the same time, one should keep in mind the fact that these States are the geographical neighbors of Uzbekistan and that there is a potential danger of the regional escalation of these conflicts. That is why we view the situation in these countries with great concern and we are interested in the earliest possible settlement of these conflicts by political and diplomatic means. I should particularly like to emphasize that today this region is becoming a dangerous zone of open production of and trade in drugs and weapons. These conflicts are exacerbated by the fact that certain forces are secretly seeking to maintain tension in order to strengthen and expand their influence by making use of various religious and nationalist slogans. Moreover, there are some influential groups of drug and weapon dealers interested in continuing the military confrontation for the sake of the preservation of their illegal profits. In general, crises of this nature have revealed the inadequacy of the existing instruments to settle them through traditional means, given the new security demands of the post-cold-war era. In this context, Uzbekistan welcomes any initiative by individual countries or groups of countries, as well as by the United Nations, aimed at settling the conflicts. The new possibilities of the United Nations could expand the spectrum of military-political measures for stabilizing situations in such explosive regions, including within the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). At the same time, taking into consideration the importance of ensuring the sovereignty of countries that have recently achieved independence and embarked on their own path of development, we believe it would be expedient to have recourse to such measures, with the agreement of Governments interested in such United Nations assistance or with the agreement of the parties to the dispute to a mediating role by the United Nations. For its part, Uzbekistan has been taking steps to improve the situation in the region. At the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, President Karimov of Uzbekistan proposed the convening in Tashkent of a standing seminar on security issues under the auspices of the United Nations. Today, plans for this idea are becoming clearer. About 15 States have already expressed their interest in participating in the seminar. We hope that in the near future the first seminar of this kind will take place. We are ready to welcome its participants to the ancient and peaceful land of Uzbekistan. Uzbekistan is also proposing for consideration at one of the forthcoming meetings of the Security Council the question of imposing an embargo on the sale of weapons and ammunition in zones of regional conflict. I should like to take this opportunity to note that there are certain groups in some countries which are intentionally spreading false information about ostensible interference by Uzbekistan in the internal affairs of Afghanistan by taking sides with one of the conflicting parties. In fact, the only support Uzbekistan is rendering to this neighboring country is humanitarian aid for its suffering people, as requested by the Government of Afghanistan, as well as to Tajik refugees who fled to Afghanistan. This assistance is extended through the representation of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in the City of Termez. I should like to pay tribute to the active role the United Nations and the CSCE are taking in this process through their special envoys. We also highly appreciate the productive activities of the regional representation of the United Nations in Uzbekistan. I should now like to touch upon one more problem which is a threat for many countries - illegal drug-trafficking. In the Republic of Uzbekistan, on the basis of the laws of Uzbekistan and according to Conventions of the United Nations of 1961, 1971 and 1988, preventive measures to cut off illegal activities related to the drug trade are now being undertaken. In general, narcotics come to Uzbekistan through neighboring countries, where, owing to unstable political situations, control over the drugs business has been weakened. Moreover, most of these narcotics are in transit to European countries. In 1993 more than 14 tons of narcotics, with a value of more than $600 million, were seized from criminals in Uzbekistan and were destroyed. The majority of these were intended for sale in Russia and in European countries. In this connection, we call for the imposition of effective measures to prevent the illegal trafficking in drugs and to coordinate international efforts. An example of the successful cooperation between law-enforcement institutions is the Agreement signed in 1992 by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Uzbekistan and its counterparts in Russia, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Belarus and Ukraine. Since October 1993 the Republic has been maintaining close cooperation with the United Nations International Drug Control Program. The visit of the Deputy Executive Director of this United Nations Program, Mr. Georgio Giacomelli, to Uzbekistan was an important event in the development of cooperation on this issue. A document defining a long-term program of collaboration against narcotics was signed during the course of that visit. I should like especially to draw attention to the important role that regional representatives involved in the United Nations Program have been playing in the coordination of international efforts to solve this global problem. This process was begun in Tashkent at the invitation of the President of Uzbekistan. We shall do our utmost to cooperate with all interested countries and organizations to bring the narco-business to an end. I must not miss this opportunity to refer briefly to environmental issues. We are grateful to the United Nations and to the specialized agencies concerned with environmental control and with the prevention of global ecological disasters. We are ready to provide all possible assistance in this noble task. Central Asia, like many other regions of the world, has experienced ecological disasters of global dimensions. I refer, first and foremost, to the tragedy of the Aral Sea. Over a period of several years the volume of water has dropped more than three times, the area has diminished two times; and the shoreline has receded 80 kilometers. Owing to these factors the desert has eaten up more than 2 million hectares of arable land. The dust-storm radius has increased by more than 300 kilometers. These developments have had a negative effect on the sanitary situation in the region. It is the opinion of United Nations experts that, in terms of ecological and socio-economic implications, the Aral Sea tragedy is one of the greatest disasters of the twentieth century. The death of the Aral Sea, which is possible, could have unpredictable consequences for the whole world. This is why we are appealing to the international community to help to save the Aral Sea and the Aral region. One possible means of solving this global problem is the creation of an international commission of experts under the auspices of the United Nations, which would initiate projects and make recommendations. The Government of Uzbekistan, for its part, would provide all possible support for the activities of the commission. The profound changes that have taken place in the world over the past half century require adaptation to new realities. There are now about 200 States, and the roles of many countries have changed. Some now have the right to be regarded as great Powers. Huge economic unions are being formed by States. Regional and global cooperation is an increasing trend. Because of the need for effective management of the processes of economic integration Governments are voluntarily transferring some of their sovereign rights to newly created joint political institutions. On the other hand, these trends underline the fact that a State should be recognized as a sovereign member of the world community so that such cooperation may be possible. The time is now ripe for the full realization of the fundamental principles of the United Nations, which were set down when the Organization was founded nearly 50 years ago. The United Nations procedures must be rejected; these procedures came into being largely under the influence of the spirit - which until recently had prevailed within these walls - of the cumbersome, often ineffective and over-bureaucratic confrontation between the United States and the USSR. The necessary reforms are already producing results. I refer in particular to the recent decision to establish the Office of Internal Oversight Services. As an Under- Secretary-General, the head of this Office will be able to initiate a more substantial discussion on the impending phases of reform of the Organization. There is no doubt that the evolution of the Security Council is still the most important and most complicated issue. How are we to reconcile the need to increase the number of permanent members, so that they are representative of all the regions of the world, with the need to make the Council more effective towards the solution of urgent international problems? Flow can the desire to reduce the level of bureaucracy in the United Nations be reconciled with the efforts to increase the number of permanent members of the Security Council? And will the exercise of the right of veto remain predominant, or should consensus become the main means of adopting decisions? These and many other issues are multidimensional and complex. They affect the interests of many countries, which often have quite different points of view, both in terms of the internal procedures of the United Nations and in terms of the means of settling international problems. It is obvious that this process will be difficult and time- consuming. We have no doubt that, ultimately, the question of increased membership of the Security Council should be considered in the context of the principle of rotation. Countries that now have the necessary capacity and sense of responsibility in respect of the maintenance of peace and security throughout the world, and at the same time are representative of the various regions of the world, should become additional permanent members of the Security Council. Our country bases its foreign policy on the realities of the contemporary world. It aims for integration with the world community through equal partnership with all other countries. Of course, our current capabilities are limited, for a number of understandable reasons. None the less, we are ready to contribute whatever is necessary for the resolution of global problems. We are eager to cooperate with countries that are interested, and we are prepared to do so both at the bilateral level and within the framework of the United Nations. We believe that the greater the number of parties involved in the discussion of international problems and of the question of increasing the effectiveness of the international institutions, the more fruitful will be the outcome. Harmonization of the rights of individuals, nations and people, together with a common interest in securing peace and development in the world, should become the main tool for resolving problems. It is my pleasure to convey to you, Mr. President, the text of the letter I have been charged by President Zein El Abidine Ben Ali, President of the Republic of Tunisia and the current Chairman of the Organization of African Unity to read to the General Assembly on his behalf. The President would have liked to deliver this speech himself, but for reasons beyond his control he is unable to do so. I shall therefore read his speech to the Assembly. 'I have the pleasure, first of all, to extend to you, Mr. President, my warmest congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your election does honour both to the entire African continent and to our sister country, Cote d'lvoire, and is also a well-deserved tribute to your excellent reputation. We are confident that your vast experience and outstanding qualities will be the best guarantee of the success of the work of the session. (Cote d'lvoire) 'It is also a pleasure for me to reiterate my warmest congratulations to your august Assembly and to assure you of the great importance that Tunisia attaches to the laudable and sometimes exhausting efforts which the United Nations continues to deploy in the service of peace and in laying the foundations of constructive dialogue between nations. 'Tunisia, which has opted for dialogue as a means of conducting both its domestic and its foreign policies, can only support this approach, contribute to its consolidation and entrenchment. 'The innumerable peace initiatives undertaken by the United Nations are distinguished by their civilizing character, as well as by their highly humanistic orientation. The fact is that civilization cannot coexist with war, just as peace cannot exist without dialogue. There is no doubt that our United Nations system possesses, in addition to the tool of dialogue, the means whereby it is able to deal with problems that threaten peace and security in our contemporary world. 'Given the magnitude of the responsibility devolving on us all, given the accumulation of world problems in the areas of security and of the economy in particular, with all the attendant risks that arise there from, we are of the opinion that international solidarity requires all members of the international community to be more committed and to make further contributions to the search for effective solutions to such problems within the framework of the prevailing tenets of universalism and globalism. 'Five years ago, from this very rostrum, I described to your august Assembly the radical reforms which we had then undertaken to put in place in Tunisia with determination and perseverance, in the wake of the constitutional change of 7 November 1987, as we faced up to the new challenges resulting from the great changes which were confronting us within the international community. 'From the outset, we had opted, as a basic choice, for promoting the participation of our citizens and for the harnessing of their full potential in building their own future, in the conviction that such is the very essence of democracy, and its real meaning. 'Since modernization of political structures can never yield the desired results if not accompanied by a reform process covering the social and economic sectors, we promulgated laws and put in place structures which we deemed capable of liberalizing the economy and encouraging private initiative in all sectors of production. In addition, we readjusted the fiscal system and improved the functioning of the banking and financial system in order to align them with this trend. As a culmination of this process, we enacted a unified investment law and reorganized and streamlined the functioning of the administrative channels. 'At the same time, we devoted special attention to developing and strengthening our human potential in various areas, in particular through reforming our system of education and improving professional training. We also strengthened the cultural sector; consolidated the plan for the struggle against illiteracy and for the advancement of women, with a view to strengthening their rights and preserving their dignity by making them partners with full rights and duties in the work of development. 'We also attach great importance to the protection of children and of the family. In the social domain, we adopted dialogue and negotiation as the basis for relationships between the forces of production. We have also made efforts to preserve the gains of workers, to promote good working conditions, to expand social welfare coverage and to protect health and safety in the workplace while trying to increase job opportunities. At the same time, we have revitalized the values of social mutual assistance and national solidarity in order to render assistance to the disadvantaged, to help develop the outlaying areas of the country, to integrate them in the framework of the national economy and, thereby, to raise the standards of living of their inhabitants. 'The year 1994 has been a particularly momentous one for Tunisia. For the first time, a multi-party parliament has been elected. We had the honour of hosting the thirtieth summit of the Organization of African Unity and of welcoming President Nelson Mandela, hero of the struggle against racial discrimination and first President of the free Republic of South Africa, and a living symbol of Africa's wisdom in its most lofty sense. 'In the same year, we said farewell to President Yasser Arafat, who returned to his homeland after having lived with us for 12 years, a respected and honoured guest, as the leader of the Palestine Liberation Organization, now that the Palestinian people are beginning to recover their inalienable and legitimate national rights after a heroic struggle which lasted for half a century. We should like to take this opportunity to reaffirm our deep satisfaction at the positive and promising steps that have been taken in the context of the Middle East peace process, and voice our determination to continue to contribute to the efforts aimed at achieving a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East. 'We have also spared no effort in strengthening further our close ties with our neighbours within the framework of the Arab Maghreb, as well as with the Arab, Muslim and African countries, the non-aligned countries and all friendly countries in Europe, Asia and America, with which we share mutual interests and have ties of fruitful cooperation. We have never hesitated to support those causes which were right and just, such as that of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and have responded positively, in so far as we were able, to the appeals and initiatives of the United Nations in the field of peace-keeping in several parts of the world. 'All these choices, efforts and achievements entitle us to reaffirm that today, Tunisia is able to meet the challenge of change which it had the courage to take up well before the advent of the global changes which we have been witnessing since the end of the last decade. Tunisia, the land of openness, tolerance and moderation, inspired as it is by its rich legacy of civilization and dedicated to its convictions and its guiding principles, will spare no effort in continuing to make its constructive contribution to international efforts, particularly within the framework of the United Nations, in order to strengthen sustainable development and peace throughout the world in the interest of all mankind. It goes without saying that our mandate at the head of the Organization of African Unity affords us a valuable opportunity to work further in mobilizing the international community and in focusing heightened attention on the concerns of the African continent, whose countries represent nearly a third of the Member States of the United Nations. 'Today, the African scene especially as projected by the audio-visual mass media, confronts us with highly contradictory images. Thus, while taking note with satisfaction and optimism of the reconciliation and harmony that we now see among the various elements of society in South Africa, which in the past were torn asunder by the odious system of apartheid, we feel despair and sadness at the persistent conflicts and hotbeds of tension in other parts of the continent. However, it would be neither fair nor objective to limit ourselves to a negative assessment of such events without attempting to shed light on them and to identify their causes in order to be able, with wisdom and concern, to remedy them and to contain their effects. 'In order to resolve the fundamental problems of Africa, we need to identify the ideal path and the most effective means of helping the continent gain control over the course of events and changes that are taking place on its soil. We have to do this not only for the sake of Africa but also in the interest of the international community as a whole. We should always keep in mind the imperative need to deal specifically with the fundamental issue which confronts so many African countries, namely, the achievement of political reform and the modernization of the economy, as corollaries of global development, under conditions of security and stability. 'There can be no doubt that in the area of political reform, the African continent has taken concrete and promising steps; but not as many as it would have liked, nor at the rate it would have desired. The African States more than anyone else, are well aware of that. 'On the other hand, as the efforts of the donor countries have fallen short of expectations, those countries should review their stance with regard to the development process in Africa in the light of the new realities and the changes that have taken place, which require the international community to redouble its efforts to participate effectively in the development of the continent. 'Africa is fully aware that the responsibility for its development is, in the first instance, its own. This is an awareness that has been confirmed by the African leaders, at their Summit in Tunis this year, when they stated that it is the duty of the Africans themselves to face up to the challenges that the present course of events confronts them with and to undertake firmly and in earnest the necessary economic reform and the rational development of human and material resources. 'At their thirtieth Summit, held in Tunis, the African leaders voiced an unshakeable will to live in peace and to mobilize their potential in the service of global and sustainable development, in order to be able to ensure a decent life for their fellow-citizens, free them from all forms of domination and hegemony and guarantee their ability to exercise their right freely to choose the model of society most in keeping with their traditions and the specific cultures. Experience has shown the gravity of the error of trying to carbon copy systems of power and of administration and impose them on peoples of other continents. The tragic consequences of such efforts are very much in evidence. 'Nevertheless, we look to the future with optimism, for today most countries of the African continent, with a heightened sense of responsibility and commitment, are trying to rid themselves once and for all of the legacies of the past. This necessary and legitimate endeavour can be made concrete only through consecration of the values of democracy, freedom and justice - those higher values to which mankind in Africa has always adhered spontaneously and enthusiastically. 'During the Cairo Summit the African States were able to establish machinery for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts. This decision was reaffirmed at the Tunis Summit. The African machinery has already begun to operate and has made a start on the implementation of the resolutions of the Tunis Summit and is tackling numerous remaining problems and crises in Africa - such as those of Rwanda, Burundi, Angola and Somalia - with a view to assisting in their settlement. 'In this context, we have spared no effort, as acting President of the Organization of African Unity, in cooperation and in coordination with African leaders, to increase emergency assistance to Rwanda. It is indisputable that the tragic situation prevailing in Rwanda requires the participation of everyone of goodwill, including the international community, and the mobilization of all efforts to heal the wounds of the brotherly people of Rwanda and to help them recover their security and stability, in harmony and fraternity. 'In implementing Security Council resolution 918 (1994), the African States have not hesitated to demonstrate their readiness to send troops to Rwanda within the framework of the second stage of the United Nations Mission (UNAMIR II) with a view to the re-establishment of security in this brotherly country, in accordance with the decisions of the Arusha Summit. 'We would have hoped, however, that material and logistical support for the African States involved had not been delayed. It was this delay that prevented the deployment of troops in Rwanda at a time when their presence was essential to and would have been a decisive factor in establishing peace and security in this brotherly country and in the region and in bringing about the desired national reconciliation that would have made possible the return of thousands of refugees, and thus would have mitigated the effects of this tragedy in line with the Arusha process. 'In this respect, I should like to emphasize that the establishment of the machinery for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts reflects Africa's political will to give concrete expression to preventive diplomacy. However, the existence of such will is not enough by itself, when it comes to taking on such a role. Hence the major responsibility devolving on the United Nations to assist the machinery, by providing the funds for peace deriving from the Organization, as well as necessary means for the success of such intervention. 'At the Tunis Summit, the African countries adopted a code of honour and conduct designed to govern relations between the States of the continent and that aims at promoting the struggle against all forms of extremism, fanaticism and terrorism which are among the most important issues before the United Nations and the international community. 'In this respect, one of the object lessons to be learnt from the events in Rwanda is that it is imperative that the review of the United Nations Security Council's methods of work be expedited and that the necessary measures to deal with the problem of procrastination that has been noted in the implementation of United Nations resolutions be taken with the speed and diligence required in dealing with international crisis situations so that United Nations intervention may be effective and timely. Failing this, the role of preventive diplomacy will have to be strengthened and Africa will have to be provided with the opportunity to contribute to its strengthening realistically in order to avoid any recurrence of the tragedies we have witnessed, such as those of Rwanda, Burundi and Somalia. 'Joint African action in the economic sphere has continued since the African Economic Community was set up at the Abuja Summit in 1991. The aim is to initiate a strategy that would make possible the achievement of the complementarity and economic integration of the African States. Those States are required to achieve a greater degree of coordination and cooperation amongst themselves in order for them to be able to cope with the new developments in world markets especially after the establishment of the World Trade Organization. They have to explore prospects for the future so that Africa may be assured of a better position in international trade, which is witnessing a diminution of the share of the least developed countries. 'Clearly, the efforts that Africa is currently making to solve the problems of the present and to secure the future deserve the support and assistance of the international community. I have called upon the leaders of the seven richest countries, when they met recently in Naples, to become involved in the concerns of the African continent and to respond to its desire for a review of the level and content of its cooperation with the international community within the framework of a global strategy of North-South cooperation based on partnership and mutual development for peace and progress. 'While noting with satisfaction and being gratified at the success of numerous countries of America and of Asia with regard to settling the debt problem and increasing the rate of economic growth, we note with regret that the burden of external debt still constitutes the major obstacle to development efforts in Africa, as it has a highly negative impact on programmes of economic and social reform and on foreign investment. 'In addition, it is important to note that the increasing level of African indebtedness arises essentially from the cost of debt servicing, which is doubling year by year and which, along with the deterioration in the terms of trade, is a principal factor inhibiting the African countries' development efforts. 'We believe that stability, security and development are a collective responsibility and a common aspiration. The rich countries are called upon to take account of this in their policies; to make their public opinion sensitive to the importance of economic assistance for the developing countries; to make provision for a reduction in the staggering imbalances between peoples; and to highlight the positive consequences of such an approach, in the medium and in the long term, for the donor countries themselves through the opening up of markets, profitable investments and the limiting of emigration and of the problems resulting there from - the most appropriate means of translating preventive diplomacy into concrete action in dealing with all types of crises. 'It was in the context of these mutual interests that we suggested several years ago to the industrialized countries the formulation of a comprehensive strategy for development in Africa that would allow the States of the continent clearly to define their economic plans on the basis of continuous support by the countries and institutions that back them financially. 'Starting with 1989, I have proposed a number of initiatives at several international forums, including this General Assembly, the G-7 summits at Toronto and Naples, the European Union summit in Strasbourg, the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro and the Vienna Conference. All those initiatives related to such issues as human rights, the environment, the concretization of North-South cooperation through the conclusion of development partnership contracts between the developing countries and the industrialized countries and the recycling of debts. The ultimate aim was the codification of trade and political relations on the international level. 'All of those proposed initiatives have now taken shape. Some of them are being implemented, while others are still being studied by regional and international groupings. 'Today, the world witnesses new phenomena, which have an ever-greater impact on the international arena and which are primarily characterized by universality and comprehensiveness. We are therefore all the more convinced of the timeliness of our initiatives and of the need to carry on and complete their implementation. 'The organic interdependence of the present and future interests of States has now become a concrete reality. The same is true of the relationships amongst peoples in all their various aspects, which are subject to the functioning of the machineries of multilateral cooperation that manage the complex relations of States on the external and the domestic levels. 'It is in this context that the various forthcoming international events will take place, namely, the United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, which will be held in Tunis; the International Symposium on Organized Crime; the World Summit for Social Development, as well as the proclamation of 1995 as the United Nations Year for Tolerance; and the World Conference on Women, which will take place in Beijing. All of these events have been scheduled to take place in the context of the international action aimed at the setting up of humanity's agenda for comprehensive development - 'An Agenda for Peace' -that would reflect, on another level, the universal nature of human security. 'Thus the international community is called upon to mobilize itself on the occasion of the Tunis meeting on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders and the International Symposium on Organized Crime in order to hone a preventive strategy, identify the means required or, more specifically, to build effective institutional structures to combat terrorism and organized crime, including offences of an economic and political nature, such as violations of human rights and drug trafficking. 'In this respect, Tunisia has unswervingly adopted a diplomacy of cooperation based on peace, stability and security. In addition, we are working to ensure that the United Nations Year for Tolerance will be a good occasion wherein such human values will be underscored and made a political goal and a means of avoiding and preventing disputes. 'As for the World Summit for Social Development, it will afford an opportunity to search for urgent international solutions to urgent social problems and to make clear the need for the formulation of an international strategy for social development, since social problems today are an overriding concern of all countries both in the North and in the South. Indeed, those problems endanger stability, security and peace throughout the world and in particular in Africa. Therefore, the African Heads of State and Government recognized, during their meeting in Tunis, the importance of this world Summit and the need carefully to consider the recommendations that will result from it. 'The strong upheavals that have taken place on the world scene have directly impacted on the conditions in many countries and particularly in those which do not have the wealth or sufficient potential to adapt to the new international order. Therefore, the international community is called upon to devise new modes of cooperation. Such modes, as they will have to be unprecedented in both form and content, will require the existence of political will and international solidarity and the establishment of a partnership for lasting social and human development. 'The improvement of living conditions, respect for human dignity, justice for all, equality of all races and peoples, as well as the values of tolerance and respect for others, are the indispensable foundations upon which social life and international cooperation must be based. 'We are gratified here to reiterate our great appreciation of the active role that the United Nations performs in the management of problems of peace, security and development throughout the world. We would also like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the son of Africa and of the Arab world who has worked to introduce a new dynamism into the agenda for comprehensive development and the 'Agenda for Peace'. This role is supported by the African States, and we continue to find it a source of great encouragement. In the same context, we take note with great satisfaction of the compromise reached within the framework of the Organization of African Unity concerning the need to implement the project for structural reform of the United Nations aimed at greater efficiency and increased balance and equality in the representation of regional groups. 'In this context, we insist on the legitimacy of the wish expressed by the African continent to strengthen its presence within the United Nations system by obtaining for itself that place which goes hand in hand with its position and with its aspiration to make a greater contribution to the management of international affairs and to the strengthening of security, stability and progress throughout the world. 'It is on behalf of Tunisia and on behalf of the Organization of African Unity that I renew this appeal, while hoping that at this session we will achieve adequate formulas for reforms to be undertaken within the United Nations system, in order to consolidate the foundations of security, peace and stability throughout the world and to provide a stimulus for the process of development for the benefit of all of humankind.' On behalf of my country and in my own behalf, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the Presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. The fact that you belong to our beloved continent, coming as you do from a country bound with my own by bonds of brotherhood and relations of friendship and cooperation is a source of added pride to us in your assumption of this high office. My delegation is confident that, familiar as you are with the work of the United Nations, and with your extensive experience in the field of international relations, you will be able to steer this session to a successful conclusion. I should also like to seize this opportunity to express my delegation’s appreciation of your predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Insanally, for the wisdom he displayed, the efforts he made and the initiatives he took to reform the United Nations and enhance its role. Further, I wish to express our gratitude to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General, for his tireless efforts to strengthen our Organization so as to enable it to face the numerous crises that beset the international community. The international situation witnessed many developments during the forty-eighth session. The will of the people of South Africa has triumphed after a long struggle and great sacrifices. It is indeed heartening to see in our midst today the delegation of South Africa, representing a united, democratic and non-racial country. Brotherly Yemen has survived its transient crisis and remains one united country, whose citizens are working with more determination and greater expectations, to build the modern State of Yemen. Along with these developments, tangible progress has been recorded in the implementation of the Peace Accord in Mozambique. Moreover, the artificial tension in the Korean peninsula is now subsiding. We are hopeful that the difficulties relating to the reunification of the Korean peninsula will be overcome through dialogue to be entered into on equal footing. Such developments are a source of satisfaction and we greatly welcome them. However, they do not mask the gloomy points of the wider picture of the international situation. Many disputes still await a solution. The outbursts of nationalist passions, ethnic chauvinism and power struggles in the absence of any power among the people, have led to the outbreak of new regional conflicts. Although some of these conflicts are getting closer to a solution, as is the case in Liberia, where the conflict is heading towards a permanent solution, the international community must still support national reconciliation efforts in Afghanistan, overcome the setbacks to the peace efforts being undertaken in the Balkans, consolidate the role of the United Nations in establishing peace in that region and guarantee the legitimate rights of the parties to the dispute there. The international community is also called upon to renew its efforts aimed at reaching a satisfactory solution to the problem of Cyprus. It must encourage peace talks on Angola and support work towards a negotiated solution in sisterly Somalia, in addition to demonstrating increased solidarity to alleviate the tragedy of the Rwandan people. It must also make more efforts to solve the problem of Kashmir on the basis of bilateral agreements and the relevant United Nations resolutions in particular. In the interest of stability in the Persian Gulf region, my country stresses the importance of the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq, and calls for an end to all interference in its internal affairs. We also consider that the sanctions imposed on Iraq, which cause suffering to the Iraqi people, should be lifted, since the reasons for these sanctions are no longer valid. Their continuation 9 can only mean a grave injustice aimed at the destruction of the Iraqi people and the extermination of large groups of its population. The United Nations has adopted many resolutions on the Question of Palestine, all of which acknowledge the right of the Palestinian people to return to their homeland and to exercise the right of self-determination. Although the United Nations has repeatedly reaffirmed these resolutions for more than 40 years, the Palestinian question still awaits a solution, the Palestinian people remain displaced and their rights are systematically and continuously violated. This proves that the so-called ongoing peace process lacks the elements necessary for any comprehensive settlement. This also shows that the resolution of the Palestinian question and the establishment of comprehensive peace in the Middle East cannot be realized merely by returning Gaza back to its status as a municipality and adding Jericho to it, but must rather come about through the liberation of all occupied Arab territories including the Syrian Golan and the acceptance of a democratic solution that would meet all the rights of the Palestinian people, including their right to return to their homeland and establish their own independent State. A few months ago, we celebrated the historic victory of the people of South Africa. It is no coincidence that the struggle of the Palestinian people is in many ways similar to that of the people of South Africa, and that many of the acts of heroism of both peoples echo each other. The solution that made it possible to build a united, democratic and non-racial state in South Africa offers a model for resolving the question of Palestine through the establishment in Palestine of a democratic non-racial State with Al Quds as its capital, where Arabs and Jews can live together. This is the proper solution, without which it would be impossible to reach a just and lasting peace that serves the interests of both Jews and the Palestinian Arabs. The numerous changes witnessed by the world after the cold war have created opportunities to build a more stable and secure world. However, the hopes of the peoples of the world for greater and better understanding and for wider cooperation have started to wane. The experience of the past few years has caused deep concern regarding some developments. Some States have begun to try to impose their control and to expand their hegemony, using their power and influence in utilizing international organs to implement their plans, and using them, particularly the Security Council, as a tool to punish those countries which abide by their principles and adopt independent policies and positions. This was the very context of the dispute between my country and France, Britain and the United States of America in what has become known as the Lockerbie crisis. This problem was raised, pushed arbitrarily through the Security Council, and dealt with under Chapter VII of the Charter, which is not applicable in this case since Libya has not threatened anybody and has never acted in a manner that jeopardized international peace and security. The whole issue is merely the suspicion that two Libyans may be connected to the Pan Am flight 103 incident. Aware as it has been all along of the motivation behind this entire issue, my country has shown sincere readiness to cooperate in uncovering the truth and circumstances of that incident. We have taken the necessary judicial measures consistent with the Charter of the United Nations and international law, with only one proviso, that they do not involve any violation of Libya’s sovereign rights. Although the Security Council was pushed into the adoption of resolution 731 (1992), Libya did declare its readiness effectively to cooperate in the implementation of that resolution. In that respect Libya took practical steps that were widely welcomed by numerous organizations, including the League of Arab States, the Organization of African Unity, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, and the Non-Aligned Movement. It was our hope that the three States concerned would take that into consideration and respond positively to the requests of Libyan authorities for cooperation in completing the investigation. However, the three States concerned responded in an entirely different way. Instead of accepting the initiatives calling for dialogue and negotiation, and showing flexibility in dealing with the other aspects of the crisis, by reconsidering Security Council resolution 748 (1992) with a view to lifting the sanctions imposed on the Libyan people, instead, they resorted to the Security Council once again and, using their influence, managed to persuade it to adopt resolution 883 (1993), tightening the sanctions imposed by resolution 748 (1992). The argument invoked by the three States concerned to justify maintaining the sanctions and the threat even to tighten them further, is that Libya has not complied with the requirements of Security Council resolution 731 (1992). And when these States are confronted with the fact that the Jamahiriya has really complied with these 10 requirements, their officials, and particularly British and American officials, answer with the words 'Libya knows what is required of her'. Officials in both countries have repeatedly used this phrase to such an extent that we are convinced that the aim behind the raising of the Lockerbie incident is not to uncover the truth and the circumstances of the issue but rather to achieve premeditated political objectives. Indeed, if the aim had really been to bring Libya to comply with the requirements of resolution 731 (1992), that aim has been fully realized. Libya has taken the legal measures necessary to pinpoint responsibility for the terrorist acts perpetrated against both American and French planes. Libya has requested the three States concerned to cooperate in completing the investigation in this respect. Libya has even invited neutral bodies to follow it up and international and humanitarian organizations to monitor its fairness. My country has cooperated with the French judge in charge of the investigation aimed at determining responsibility for the explosion aboard French UTA flight 772. Contacts in this respect still continue. My country has also cooperated with the Government of the United Kingdom in trying to uncover certain elements accused by the British Government of involvement in terrorist acts. To this end, several meetings were held between the Libyan and British sides. Today, we are very glad to see that negotiations have already started between Britain and the political and military wings of the Irish Republic Army (IRA) and that an agreement has been signed by the two parties. Now the leaders of the IRA are being received and welcomed at the highest level in both London and Washington with a view to holding negotiations with a view to ending the dispute and all its side effects. Libya has condemned international terrorism in all its forms and declared its readiness to commit itself to whatever measures are adopted by the international community to combat this scourge. Libya has also severed all its relations with all groups and organizations suspected of being involved in terrorist acts. Libya has emphasized that it will not allow its territory, citizens or institutions to be used for such acts whether directly or indirectly. We have declared our readiness to punish severely whoever is proved to be involved in any terrorist acts. Libya has also declared that there are no terrorist training camps on its soil. It has repeated its invitation to the Security Council, or any international body mandated by the Council, to verify this. All these practical measures confirm the extent of my country’s seriousness in stamping out the phenomenon of international terrorism. This seriousness has been reflected in the call by the Jamahiriya for the convening of a special session of the General Assembly to be devoted to the study of the causes and dimensions of this problem and its support of the proposal to convene an international conference to define terrorism, including State terrorism, and the means to eradicate it in all its forms. It is State terrorism with which Libya is now being threatened at the hands of a State which is a permanent member of the Security Council. That State has abducted Libyan prisoners of war from Chad and is now training them and equipping them to undermine the security and stability of Libya. This is the same terrorism to which Libya fell victim in 1973 when Israeli planes intentionally shot down a Libyan civilian airliner, killing all 108 passengers aboard; and also when the United States of America in 1986 bombed Libyan cities while people were asleep in their beds and caused great loss of life and damage to property. Later it was revealed that the acts used by that State as a pretext for its aggression were unfounded. The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya has spared no effort in trying to resolve the dispute, including trying the two suspects in the Pan Am flight 103 incident, although the matter has been predetermined by the 1971 Montreal Convention which gives Libya the right to try the two suspects itself. However, the refusal by Britain and the United States of America to abide by this Convention, to which they are both parties, has prompted Libya to seek other ways of holding the trial. Thus, Libya offered to resort to the International Court of Justice or to surrender the two suspects to the United Nations office in Libya for investigation. Libya has also proposed that the Secretary- General of the United Nations should establish a fact- finding legal commission to verify the seriousness of the accusations, including carrying out a comprehensive investigation. Competent Libyan authorities referred the matter to the basic popular congresses which constitute our legislative authority and they in turn made the decision that they had no objection to letting the two suspects stand trial before a fair tribunal to be agreed upon. Proceeding from this, my country declared its readiness to enter into negotiations with the States concerned under the supervision of the Secretary-General of the United Nations on the trial to be held in a place agreed to by all parties concerned where full guarantees would be available to establish the truth, indeed the very aim of Security Council resolution 731 (1992). Recently, new information on the American aircraft incident has been uncovered, including a book entitled Tracking the Octopus by Coleman and Donald and the statements by the manager of a Swiss electronics company. These new revelations obliterate the central 11 element on which the accusations against the two Libyan citizens was based. Despite all this, Libya maintained its cooperation in trying to identify all the circumstances surrounding the incident. On this basis, Libya accepted the proposal of the Council of the League of Arab States contained in its resolution 5373 of 27 March 1994. That proposal called for trying the two suspects by Scottish judges under Scottish law at the seat of the International Court of Justice. Even after new information was revealed by the Palestinian citizen, Yousef Shaaban, before a Lebanese Court, Libya did not hesitate to go ahead with the trial and did not waver in its declared readiness to accept any verdict emanating from such a trial. This, once again, underlines the fact that the Libyan Jamahiriya has no objection to the trial of the two suspects. All that Libya wants is for the trial to be fair and just, free from any emotional or media influences, and with the availability of all guarantees consistent with the norms of legality and international law, which Libya has observed and applied. The International Court of Justice (ICJ) can testify to this, since that Court has considered, over the past 10 years, three cases to which Libya was a party. The ICJ decided the case relating to the continental shelf between Libya and Tunisia, and both parties fully implemented the ruling of the Court. The same happened in the case of the continental shelf between Libya and Malta; once again the two parties implemented the ruling of the International Court of Justice. This year, the Court decided the territorial dispute between the Jamahiriya and Chad. Though the ruling rejected Libya’s demands, the Jamahiriya did implement it in a constructive spirit that was welcomed and appreciated by both the Security Council and the Secretary- General. This shows the extent of my country’s commitment to and respect of international legality, something that great powers pay lip service to but never apply. These States refuse even to appear before the ICJ, since they believe in the legality of force and not the force of legality. Most international and regional organizations have renewed their appeal to the three States to accept the initiatives calling for dialogue and negotiation, with a view to reaching a peaceful settlement to the crises. Those organizations, including the 11th Ministerial Conference of the States Members of the Non-Aligned Movement and the 60th Session of the Council of Ministers of the Organization of African Unity, welcomed Libya’s acceptance of the Arab League’s proposal. This august Assembly, which includes all States represented in those organizations, is now called upon to show its appreciation of Libya’s position, Libya’s steps and initiatives and the proposals that we have accepted. It should call on the three States concerned to show flexibility and enter into dialogue with the Jamahiriya with the aim of reaching a peaceful settlement to this problem. This Assembly is also called upon to express its support of these demands, so that the Security Council will reconsider its resolutions on the crisis and lift the unjust sanctions. It is absurd and ignorant to depict the sanctions as being against the Libyan Government, because in Libya there is no Government as such. The power is in the hands of the people, who now suffer the consequences of these sanctions - for example, the crash of a Libyan civilian aircraft in 1992, leading to the death of all 157 civilians aboard, as a result of the ban on spare parts. Furthermore, 1,622 people have been killed in car accidents, and 350 people, most of whom were children, old men and women died as a result of delays in moving them abroad for medical treatment. These sanctions have also caused economic damage estimated at $4.5 billion. These damages are detailed in official document S/1994/921. Before the Second World War, and following the end of that war, the Libyan people suffered and continue to suffer all sorts of pressure, troubles and pains. We have been subjected to colonialism in its worst form: a Fascism that wreaked havoc in our country, killing, displacing and exiling countless numbers of our citizens. Against our will, we had to be a theatre of war between the colonial powers, a war that was fought on our soil and for which we were the fuel. That war’s mines are still buried in our soil, in our farms and under our homes. From time to time, these mines explode and kill innocent people. In previous sessions of this Assembly, my country has repeatedly called on the States concerned to cooperate with us in removing these mines. Today, 7 October, coincides with the commemoration of the Libyan people of the 25th anniversary of the evacuation of the last Fascists who had settled in Libya and oppressed its people. Once again I repeat my call and urge the States concerned to respond positively to the resolutions of the General Assembly, instructing them to provide the necessary information on mines, give technical assistance in removing them, and pay compensation for the losses they have caused. This may also be a good opportunity to remind the imperialist states that occupied our lands for over 40 years that we have not forgotten the ruin and destruction they left behind. I should also like to announce that my country, through this Assembly and other forums, will seek to compel colonialist states to pay fair compensation for the 12 resources they have looted and the wealth and money they have plundered from our country. The peoples of the world are called upon to adopt a historic resolution, through this Organization, condemning colonialism and forcing former colonial powers to compensate their former colonies, in order to prevent the re-emergence of colonialism and prevent the powerful from once more blackmailing and oppressing the weak. The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya welcomes efforts aimed at enhancing security and cooperation in the Mediterranean region. We voice our satisfaction with the initiatives whose objective is to enhance economic, social, cultural and environmental cooperation in the region. Libya calls for taking all measures necessary to remove all causes of tension in the area, especially through the withdrawal of foreign military fleets whose continued presence jeopardizes peace and security in the Mediterranean, which in turn are closely linked to international peace and security. The Arab Maghreb Union has achieved tangible progress on the road towards economic integration among its countries and towards the consolidation of the underpinnings of development in these countries. It has also opened new channels of cooperation with organizations in the areas to which we belong both geographically and culturally. Libya welcomes those steps and expresses the hope that the Maghreb Union will succeed in playing a similar role with its counterpart organizations on the other side of the Mediterranean, beginning with the intensification of contacts and meetings, as well as active dialogue with the institutions concerned, on a basis of equality and common interests in a manner capable of responding to the concept of joint development and the collective responsibility for maintaining peace and strengthening cooperation on the shores of the Mediterranean. In view of the stability of the political system in the Jamahiriya and its importance as an economic market, it would be impossible to marginalize or ignore its role in any cooperation between the shores of the Mediterranean if such cooperation is achieve its objectives, at the forefront of which is serving the peoples of the region and achieving their prosperity. Some progress has been registered recently in the field of disarmament. This is a welcome development. Libya looks forward to more international cooperation with a view to destroying nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, as well as other weapons of mass destruction. We look forward to the banning of the development, stockpiling and use of all such weapons. My country also hopes that more efforts will be made to conclude a treaty on making Africa a nuclear-weapon-free zone and the activation of the initiative aimed at making the Middle East region free from weapons of mass destruction. The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is a party to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. We hope that the preparatory committee for the 1995 review conference will, in its next session, reach an understanding that takes into consideration the concerns of all parties to the Treaty, especially as regards its extension. My country still has some difficulty in accepting an indefinite extension of the Treaty, because such an extension does not take into account several of our concerns, including the unavailability of credible security guarantees for non-nuclear-weapon states. Furthermore, the area in which we live suffers from a security imbalance, resulting from Israel’s acquisition of nuclear weapons and its non-adherence to the non-proliferation regime. It has not acceded to the Treaty, nor has it signed a safeguard agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). That is why my country would like to emphasize that it is essential to address these concerns at the time of considering the extension of the Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1995. Respect for and protection of human rights is one of the fundamental underpinnings of Libyan policy. This has been demonstrated in various forms which included the setting up of the International Committee for the Qaddafi Human Rights Prize and the adoption of the green document on human rights and basic human freedoms. Libya is determined to support and contribute to all international efforts aimed at guaranteeing the effective enjoyment of human rights. We thus welcome the conclusions of the Vienna Conference, which constitute a step on the road to the support and enhancement of human rights. That human rights Conference rejected the manipulation of human rights and their use as a tool of political pressure. This universally adopted principle must be respected, especially by States that selectively raise problems related to human rights. The international community must stand up to any attempt by any State or group of States to exploit human rights as a means of interfering in the internal affairs of other States. It must also oppose any attempt by any State or group of States to distort the principles and values of other peoples or to promote the principles and values of such States or groups of States as the only proper values that should be embraced by all peoples. The international community’s hopes for a secure and stable world cannot be realized without addressing economic problems, particularly in the developing 13 countries, where economies continue to face difficulties as a result of the aggravation of the problem of external debts, the application of protectionist trade policies, the imposition of harsh conditions for their importation of advanced technology, the deteriorating prices of raw materials and the continued attempts to impose new taxes, such as the carbon tax, which could hurt not only the economies of the oil- exporting States but also those of oil-importing countries. We believe it is impossible to solve these problems effectively unless the international community deals seriously with and puts an end to the erroneous practices that continue to characterize international economic relations. Such practices include coercive economic measures, such as the freezing of assets and the confiscation by certain developing countries of the property of a number of developing countries, including my own. Such measures constitute an impediment to growth, aside from the fact that they run counter to the Charter of the United Nations, norms of international law and the resolutions of the General Assembly. The General Assembly is the natural place for Member States to exercise their rights and express their views on the initiatives aimed at reforming the United Nations. In the course of the last session, we followed with keen interest everything that was achieved in this regard. My country expresses its satisfaction at the progress made towards revitalizing the activities of the General Assembly and the establishment of an effective working relationship between the Assembly and the Security Council. We hope future efforts will result in an increase in the membership of the Security Council based on equitable geographical distribution. To our mind, this process must be accompanied by measures to remove obstacles to the proper functioning of the Council, such as the privilege of veto power, and improvements in its working methods so that it can function in accordance with the principles of the Charter and, eschewing double standards, deal consistently with all issues. If we examine past Security Council practices we shall find that while the Council showed interest in trying to secure commitment to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, it has turned and continues to turn a blind eye to Israel, which has not acceded to the Treaty and actually possesses 200 nuclear warheads. Furthermore, the Security Council has insisted on invoking Chapter VII of the Charter in cases to which it is not applicable, while at the same time failing to invoke Chapter VII in the case of Israel, despite its defiance of United Nations resolutions and its continued occupation of the territories of States Members of the United Nations. The Council kept silent on the Israeli refusal to withdraw from southern Lebanon and on the massacres perpetrated against the Palestinians, such as the one in Hebron’s Al-Haram Al-Ibrahimi Al-Sharif - the Mosque of Abraham - where, in an act of terrorism, a fanatical Zionist settler, trained in an American camp, killed over 50 Palestinians while they were praying. My country believes that, in the context of reforming the Security Council, the Council must be neutral and give none of its members a chance to dominate it or steer it towards serving its own interests, as has been the case in so many instances, the latest of which was the Council’s granting of permission to one of its permanent members to invade an independent State Member of the United Nations, the Republic of Haiti. It has been said that the objective of that action was to restore democracy and protect human rights. If this were true, why was there no such action in the past, when the people of that country were suffering under the yoke of a repressive regime, subjected to the most vicious violations of their human rights? What happened was a flagrant violation of the Charter, an act of aggression against the inviolability of an independent country. It also establishes the dangerous precedent of giving permission to a State, unhappy about waves of immigrants reaching its shores, to occupy the land where the immigration originates. Libya cannot afford to overlook this invasion or keep silent about it, first, as a matter of principle and, secondly, because Haiti has a special place in our history. Forty-five years ago Haiti played a decisive role in a matter of interest to us. Its deciding vote won the adoption of the General Assembly resolution on Libya’s independence. At this time next year, the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations will begin. While developments in recent years have revealed some weaknesses in some of the United Nations organs’ handling of dispute settlement and crisis management, this cannot be attributed to the Charter but, rather, to the tendency by certain Powers, insisting that their approach alone should be adopted, to impose their hegemony on the handling of international matters. This question should be the focus of attention in the next session because it will mark the demise of the old order and the building of the new order that will replace it. The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya intends to participate with others in building this new order to ensure that it will be an order based on justice and equality that respects peoples’ political and economic options, secures 14 full commitment to international law and full respect for the Charter of the United Nations and stands up to those who would push the United Nations towards the fate of the League of Nations. The new order we need is one that enhances and protects human rights and eradicates poverty, suffering, division, conflicts, disputes and wars. It must be an order in which no State seeks to impose its hegemony and abuse its influence, an order that supports the settlement of disputes among States by peaceful means, not by arbitrary and coercive means. We need a new order under whose umbrella all peoples can look optimistically to a future where security, peace and stability prevail. I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I feel sure that with 5 your experience you will guide this session to a successful conclusion. In my capacity as President of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, elected by the free vote of our citizens, I have the great honour of addressing the General Assembly. My country has been linked to the United Nations since the very moment of its creation. It not only has kept a legal and formal link with the Organization but has become an active participant in its political and social activities. As the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations approaches, this is an appropriate opportunity to undertake a critical analysis of the Organization itself and to analyse the world situation following the crucial events of the last few years. The consequences of the end of the bipolar are and the cold war still affect the life of all nations. Although it has been stated that there is now a new world order, this is contradicted daily by events that occur in all parts of the world. We can say that the old order no longer exists and we can also say that the world is currently undergoing a process of complete reordering. We cannot yet see the end of that process, but there are a number of different actors, of various origins. Super- Powers and nations are no longer the only influences at play in the international arena. Today, we can discern new centres of power that have an unquestionable influence on international life. I would refer - and the list is far from complete - to the mass-communications media that standardize and transmit opinions throughout the planet, thereby becoming guidelines that form opinion and actions and exert an undeniable influence. Similarly, we could mention the re-emergence of politically militant religious movements, both domestic and international, which use philosophical currents to create genuine political leverage. Although economic interests have, since the beginning of mankind’s history, always been factors in the power equation, market regionalization has today strengthened the power of economic and financial elements which, in America, Europe and Asia, are emerging as the main protagonists of national life. Of course, in this analysis we cannot fail to mention the crucial and significant role played by international organizations, particularly our own Organization, the United Nations. Painful experience has taught us how far mankind still is from successfully expanding international law in relations among countries. We are currently living in the aftermath of the reordering process I have mentioned, and the redistribution and relocation of the world’s centres of power. As part of this process, collective security mechanisms must be thoroughly analysed. Several States have called for review of United Nations institutions, but we must approach that task very carefully, for our progress will be meagre indeed if we confine ourselves to agreeing that the new role of the United Nations should be simply to reflect the new distribution of power that results from the new world order. We believe, pursuant to the Charter, that the main issue of international peace-keeping and security is to be found in the extent to which international society is able to guarantee full and comprehensive observance of all of the Charter principles. Here, emphasis should be placed on distinguishing between reforms of the institutional mechanisms designed to implement collective security and the integrity of the principles of international conduct, observance of which is the very foundation of this society. It is indeed appropriate to enunciate these principles: prohibition of the use of force against the territorial integrity and the independence of States; equality of rights and free self-determination; the duty of non-intervention in internal affairs - a principle that is clearly of Latin American origin; the sovereign equality of States; the peaceful settlement of disputes and good-faith cooperation among nations. This is not a set of abstract measures or postulates that are overtaken by the present global context. These principles form the essence of international conduct for all States, the practical, direct and unavoidable end product of international relations. Full, comprehensive and continuing respect for these principles will determine whether or not the international security and stability the world so needs is achieved and can be maintained, particularly in this era of such great change. Speaking realistically, they could be rated as possibilities that could, were they realized, lead to hoped- for, feasible and compelling results. Thus, the creation, establishment and maintenance of a climate and atmosphere of international security are responsibilities that are incumbent mainly on those States with the greatest power and the greatest decision-making capacity in the international order, although other States bear equal responsibilities in this respect. 6 These principles are part of a whole, and they must not yield to possible distortions, one of which calls for change on the grounds that the world context has changed, leading to the justification of intervention on humanitarian grounds, and another of which is embodied in the temptation to exaggerate some of these principles to the detriment of others, for example invoking self-determination as a pretext for violating the territorial integrity or national borders of other States. Speaking in the Security Council on 4 May 1965, my compatriot, Ambassador Carlos Maria Velasquez, stated with perfect clarity: 'As I said only a short time ago in this very chamber on assuming the office of representative of Uruguay on the Security Council, my country has long realized from its own historical experience, which has been no less unhappy than that of other Latin American countries, that the world must be governed by real respect for the rules of international law and morality. Without this, harsh reasons of state will continue to be the predominant factor in international relations and the fate of small countries will remain precarious and uncertain. 'Our attitude is not what some realistic minds might describe as one of sanctimonious legality. There are very real grounds - and the case we are now considering is an example - for the small countries’ belief that strict and faithful application of juridical provisions governing what is termed security under law represents one of the corner-stones of our own security.' 'If I may say so, the great Powers can give such interpretation to texts as they see fit because if, in fact, political decisions are to be based on will rather than on reason, it is they who have the power to dictate them. We smaller nations need to adhere unswervingly to the rule of law. In our own national interest, we need to know how far we can go and, perhaps more important still, the extent to which we can be compelled.' (Official Records of the Security Council, Twentieth Year, 1198th meeting, paras. 33 and 34) In this ever-changing world, diverse threats and tensions are multiplying, even in those regions where peace and security would seem to be firmly established. It therefore seems urgent that the international community effectively show that its commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter is not a mere formal commitment or a passive expression of hope. It is indeed deplorable to see that from one session of the Assembly to the next new confrontations continue to occur in various parts of the world, leaving their tragic aftermaths of death and grief. This sad reality means, as noted in the document submitted by the Secretary- General, 'An Agenda for Peace', which clearly emphasizes the unavoidable responsibility of each and every one of us in this area, priority must be given to the work of the United Nations. Caught up as we are in a vicious circle of distrust, civilized and fruitful coexistence will be possible only to the extent that States carry out their actions in their particular areas of interest in accordance with the international legal order and in strict accordance with the obligations incumbent upon them under the United Nations Charter. Accordingly, Uruguay, in a constructive spirit, has participated actively in various peace-keeping operations in response to the needs of the international community. Our participation has been based on a number of fundamental principles that govern our foreign policy, namely, non-intervention in internal affairs, peaceful settlement of disputes, self-determination of peoples, and non-use of force to achieve peace. Our assessment is that, in general, peace-keeping operations have shown positive progress in the settlement of conflicts, although several operational matters still have to be improved and resolved. First, we believe that peace-keeping operations must be carried out in full compliance with the principles of international law as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. In this sense, and on the basis of our experience, we believe that actions under Chapter VII of the Charter or operations with a broad mandate should be undertaken only as a last resort, after the political means described in Chapter VI of the Charter have been exhausted. Furthermore, we believe that action of this type can be undertaken only when there are, clearly, emergency situations that pose a real threat to international peace and security. In addition, we have to bear in mind the views 7 of regional organizations and those of neighbouring countries in the areas of conflict. On the other hand, peace-keeping operations must have a feasible and precise mandate, as well as a realistic schedule. Security Council decisions to send a mission should not take account of the strategic or political importance of the different regions and, thereby, simply highlight differences that should not affect this type of decision. Uruguay has participated, and will continue to participate actively, in activities of this kind. We are currently taking part in seven operations - in India/Pakistan, Mozambique, Iraq/Kuwait, Western Sahara, Liberia, Rwanda and Georgia. Overall, more than 950 persons are involved. Given the relatively small number of people in our armed forces, these figures represent a high degree of commitment, hardly matched in the international community. Our country provides contingents for peace-keeping operations in the belief that we are contributing in a spirit of solidarity to the attainment of a collective goal that transcends exclusively national interests. We believe that we have a right to declare that such solidarity must also be manifested by other members of the international community in support of this effort. Despite its effort and the degree of its commitment, however, Uruguay does not see a similar return from the international community. It has not received compensation deriving from the depreciation of equipment and materials and from the contribution of contingents, which often pay with their lives for their commitment to the international cause. We support the various efforts with a view to adjusting the Charter of the United Nations to the changes in the international situation - in particular, those referred to in General Assembly resolution 47/60. Reform of the Charter must be effected within the framework of the need to attain greater democratization and transparency in decision-making, and to strike a balance between the existing Powers of the different bodies. Uruguay favours an increase in the number of members of the Security Council to make it more representative and to facilitate the fulfilment of its tasks. Here, the main challenge is to prevent an increase in the membership of the Security Council from compromising its efficiency. Uruguay favours a minimum of 20 members and a maximum of 25. Uruguay does not oppose the inclusion of new categories of members - semi-permanent, for example - under the principle of equitable geographical distribution, so long as this would provide for more appropriate representativeness and equal operational opportunity. Nevertheless, we understand that such an innovation must be based on the idea that 'more privileges entail more obligations', including financial obligations. New members should be elected for fixed terms to represent the various regions, and they should have a mandate encompassing regional interests. We would accept their re-election provided that the members in question had the support of the States in their own regions. There are certain legal matters affecting the Organization that deserve our attention. In this connection, I should like to refer first to the situation provided for in Article 50 of the Charter, which affects us directly. Reality has shown the need for a mechanism to ensure reparation for third States that are economically affected by the application of sanctions imposed under Chapter VII of the Charter. In our opinion, such a mechanism should be permanent and should operate automatically. Secondly, we must pay more attention to the question of responsibility for attacks on United Nations and associated personnel, given the ominous increase in the number of such attacks. This is a situation with which our country is very familiar. The problems facing the international community today include issues of a global nature affecting all Members of the United Nations, as well as other temporary issues which concern one or more individual States but which may have implications for the rest of the international community. We shall refer to both, beginning with those of a global nature: international terrorism, international cooperation against crime, and human rights. Acts of international terrorism are serious common-law crimes, which violate the most elemental principles of individual and collective security, irrespective of the political excuses invoked for their perpetration. They are a flagrant violation of human 8 rights and must be fought, domestically and internationally, with efficient and energetic measures. Uruguay is aware of the various efforts in different international forums, but we are concerned about the lack of practical, concrete and global action to deal effectively with this serious and complex problem. Although the maintenance of internal order and security is the responsibility of each State, cooperation between countries is essential to coordinated prevention and punishment of crimes that have international implications. These mechanisms could include full respect for the norms of extradition in accordance with the law, which are the tangible expression of the political will of States to cooperate in the preservation of the legal rights protected by international agreements and by domestic legislation. Among the many rights for the protection of which we are directly responsible are the human rights of the child. In this very building, in 1990, we held what was described as the World Summit for Children. On that occasion we adopted an extensive document intended to set the guidelines for highly ethical action, through which nations undertook to protect the future of mankind - our children. This document included pragmatic issues such as the protection of children in situations of armed conflict and the adoption of appropriate measures to protect them. The conflict afflicting the Balkans has given rise to episodes that disturb the conscience of mankind. The consequences have been particularly atrocious for the children in the region - innocent victims of an immoral conflict. We have brought this case to the attention of the relevant agencies. We considered that under the Convention on the Rights of the Child there was a case for seeking a truce to allow for the evacuation of children from battlefront areas. Unfortunately, nobody got beyond written words, and our Organization was not able to prevent even this aspect of the barbarism prevailing in that area. In the same spirit, it is necessary that our Organization fully enforce this Assembly’s resolution establishing the need for effective action against the sexual exploitation of children in order to prevent and eliminate such abuse. Uruguay is aware of the need to preserve the quality of the physical and human environment and of the dangers arising from the degradation of natural resources. This is why it has adopted the programmes in Agenda 21 of the United Nations. Our National Parliament enacted a law granting priority to the protection of the environment against any form of depredation, destruction or pollution and making environmental impact assessments mandatory. As a State located in the Southern Cone of the American continent, our country has a particular interest in all issues relating to climate changes that affect us. At the tenth session of the Intergovernmental Committee, as a contribution to the research on this topic, Uruguay offered to host the permanent headquarters of the secretariat of the Convention on Climate Change. All these actions and initiatives have been taken in the framework of the strategy - which my country shares - to promote lasting economic and social development without prejudice to the environment or to non-renewable resources, thus achieving solid and sustained growth for both the present and future generations. The work of the United Nations and the specialized agencies in the social field has earned a well-deserved recognition. The present times call for a more crucial role by the United Nations system and for the broadening of activities to meet the new challenges, for example, the growing imbalance between the wealthy countries and the two thirds of mankind who live in poverty. It is urgent that we check deteriorating social conditions in the developing world, so as to prevent these situations from becoming threats to international peace and security. Accordingly, Uruguay enthusiastically supports the convening of the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen in March 1995. This event will provide an opportunity to discuss global strategies for strengthening international cooperation for both wealthy and developing countries. Our country is deeply concerned about the continuing deterioration of the world economy, which seems to be accelerating day by day. The persistence of recession and inflation, the rise in unemployment, the instability in foreign exchange markets, the disorder in the balances of payments in industrialized regions, the recurring protectionist currents that continuously depart from GATT rules - all this inevitably delays economic progress in the developing countries, the majority of the States gathered here. Free trade is still one of the bases on which to achieve and to strengthen development processes; it is therefore important that we have been able to conclude the so-called Uruguay Round of GATT - but this can only 9 be seen as the end of one stage. Although in principle the results can be described as encouraging, they will be meaningless unless free trade is broadened in the future. That is why the various agreements reached must be complemented by further reducing support and subsidy levels and by eliminating non-tariff obstacles to trade. There is no doubt that the tasks to be undertaken by the World Trade Organization will be of critical importance in strengthening the process of free trade. Therefore, prompt ratification of the Marrakech Agreements by all countries is necessary in order to allow this new organization to begin operations on 1 January next year. In the context of reorganizing current international trade relations, Uruguay firmly supports the Secretary- General’s initiative in his report, 'Agenda for Development', which is a positive contribution in the search for a revitalized approach to the concept of development, as it includes the objectives of peace, freedom, justice and progress. Before I turn to items on particular situations, let me take up one last global topic, that relating to progress in international law, an area dear to my country, which is a fervent advocate and a jealous guardian of its application. We are convinced of the need to promote the evolution of international law as the most effective tool to govern relations among States. We wish to affirm our support for the implementation of General Assembly resolution 44/23, the objective of which is to promote the peaceful settlement of disputes and to achieve compliance with the decisions of the International Court of Justice, while encouraging the codification of international law, a goal our country has long desired. In addition, we are pleased to see the entry into force of the Convention of the Law of the Sea - which was ratified by our country - and we are hopeful that some States will be able to overcome their difficulties with certain points and accede to the Convention, thus achieving its full acceptance. In conclusion, I would like to refer to three international situations in which my country has a particular interest, as their outcome may have consequences at the international level and affect the credibility so necessary to our Organization at this time of restructuring and revitalization. First of all, my country wishes expressly to mention the situation in the Middle East, given our traditional bonds with many of the States of the region. We have always been concerned with the various approaches to achieving peace in the Middle East. In this connection we recall Uruguay’s co-sponsorship of the repeal of resolution 3379 (XXX), which illogically and unjustly determined that Zionism was a form of racism. Uruguay has always supported all actions, in accordance with international law and with the resolutions of the Security Council, aimed at achieving peace through the negotiation of agreements among the parties involved, as the only valid alternative allowing the parties the possibility of living within safe and recognized borders. We have recently witnessed an acceleration of these negotiations, with considerable progress in the achievement of border agreements, the opening of air communications and the recognition of the State of Israel. At the same time, however, we note with concern the recurrence of terrorist attacks aimed at crippling this process - the final goal of which is desired by the overwhelming majority of the international community: the achievement of permanent peace in that region. We understand that this session of the Assembly can be instrumental in furthering progress in the peace process, by the Organization’s adoption of a realistic and up-to-date position on the current negotiations, modifying the contents and style of General Assembly resolutions in keeping with this new stage. We in the American hemisphere believe that the Cuban situation must be seen in the light of two considerations: on the one hand, the view - shared by our country - that pluralist and representative democracy and the protection of human rights must be fully consolidated in our continent without any exceptions; and, on the other, the perspective of respect for the principles of the United Nations Charter regarding non-intervention and the self-determination of peoples. Observance of these precepts and of general international law implies the adoption of unambiguous criteria regarding the economic, commercial and financial blockade of Cuba. In this sense, our country, true to its consistent policy, will support the resolution that establishes the need to eliminate the unilateral application for political purposes of economic and commercial measures against another State - without, however, any 10 implications of recognition or acceptance of the type of regime prevailing in that country. Lastly, the position of Uruguay on the crisis in Haiti is well known. Our country has invariably opposed any kind of military intervention lacking the necessary legal support. Under the Charter of the Organization, the use of force is limited to cases in which the community is confronted with a clear threat to international peace and security. Regardless of the dynamics of events, we still believe that political instances and dialogue are the best instrument for preserving the principles of international law and settling situations of this nature. International, and particularly hemispheric, relations must take place against a backdrop of realism and legal security: realism to adjust to ongoing change in the internal and external aspects of each country; and legal security to find in law the criteria of equity and justice that make the principle of the sovereign equality of States feasible and credible. May the upcoming commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations be an opportunity to reflect on what has been achieved and - as was so well said by the Secretary-General - to learn the lessons of the past as a challenge for the achievement of future goals. Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session and to wish you every success in leading this august body. May this session be constructive and productive for you and all delegations. New geopolitical, economic and technological realities have appeared at the close of the twentieth century. The destructive cold war has come to an end and its symbol - the Berlin Wall - has collapsed. The insuppressible long-held yearnings of many peoples for freedom and independence led in the end to the disintegration of even the seemingly indestructible Soviet empire, clearly reaffirming the lasting strength and integrity of the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations - peace, equality and justice. That is why this Organization has always played and will continue to play a role in furthering the progress of nations, as evidenced by its vast undertakings in the maintenance of international peace and security, as well as its efforts to increase the well-being of society and every individual. Two years ago, the Secretary-General in his report 'An Agenda for Peace', comprehensively analysed aspects related to the maintenance of peace and security. This report led to a broad debate on concepts such as preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping, peacemaking and post-conflict peace-building. Preventive diplomacy by the United Nations and other organizations undoubtedly furthered the resolution of a very difficult issue for Latvia and all of Europe - the withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territories of the Baltic States. With satisfaction I should like to report to the General Assembly that, on the whole, General Assembly consensus resolutions 47/21 of 25 November 1992 and 48/18 of 15 November 1993, entitled 'Complete withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territories of the Baltic States', have been implemented. The last Russian military units departed Latvia and Estonia at the end of August. Thus, the Second World War has ended for the Baltic States. Our bilateral negotiations with the Russian Federation, which lasted for more than two years, culminated with the signing on 30 April 1994 of agreements the ratification of which has been included in the agenda of the Parliament of Latvia. I can state with full conviction that the international calls for the withdrawal of Russian troops, made by the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), amongst others, were pivotal to the successful resolution of this long drawn-out matter. We believe that this approach may be useful as an example for the resolution of other global issues and we are prepared to share our experience with others. The United Nations and the CSCE will continue to have an important role in the implementation of the agreements. According to the bilateral agreement between Latvia and Russia on the Skrunda radar facility, any attempt to settle disputes or differences of opinion connected with the agreement by means of military threats or by the use of armed force shall be considered a threat to international peace and security and shall be brought before the United Nations Security Council. For its part, representatives of the CSCE will observe the implementation of the agreements and the fulfilment of the respective parties’ obligations. However, we have yet to exhaust the opportunities for preventive diplomacy in the Baltic region. Baltic regional security continues to be a pressing issue. On his visit to Latvia last summer, Mr. William Clinton, President of the United States of America, stressed that the sovereign and independent Baltic States must not be part of any sphere of influence. It must be noted that President Clinton played a vital role in disentangling problems which had developed during negotiations with the Russian Federation on the withdrawal of its troops from Estonia and Latvia. I should like to remind the international community that the Russian radar facility will remain in Skrunda for five and a half years, and nuclear reactors will remain in Paldiski, Estonia. Heavy Russian military transit takes place through Lithuania to Kaliningrad, where a high military concentration is maintained. On the whole, these are risk factors which potentially threaten the Baltic States and, in fact, the entire Baltic Sea region. In many respects, Baltic security is a guarantee for peace and stability in Europe. The Baltic States are already considering the possible solutions to this important question, and I hope that the Member States will devote their full attention and interest to these ends. A significant dialogue between our two countries has concluded with the completion of Russian troop withdrawal from Latvia. Thanks to the support of many countries and international organizations, Latvia today is free from foreign military presence. Nevertheless, without the foresight and the civility displayed by both parties, we could not stand here today and speak of social harmony and tolerance in Latvia, nor could we say that both Latvia and the Russian Federation have one less problem to address. Last spring, when I met with President Yeltsin in Moscow, I gained the conviction that in solving our problem he was guided by good will. In 1995, Europe and the world will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Allied victory over nazism. Latvians, too, fought against Hitler’s occupying forces in the belief that an Allied victory would be followed by the restoration of Latvian independence. However, whilst many nations breathed freely again after the end of the Nazi occupation, the Baltic States were engulfed for the second time by the totalitarian Soviet empire. As other nations celebrated the defeat of nazism, Latvia was subjected to the deportation of hundreds of thousands of innocent persons and the systematic destruction of the Latvian State and national identity. Latvia and its people are the victims of both regimes - nazism and communism. Justice would prevail if the new democratic Russia, which played a decisive role in the destruction of the 'Evil Empire', were to engage with Latvia in the appraisal of the actions taken by the Soviet Union against Latvia in 1940. The signing of truthful bilateral documents would preclude any petty psychological feelings of revenge and would provide amends to the victims of the totalitarian regime in both countries. These 'truth' documents would foster even greater harmony between the various nationalities in Latvia and, we believe, lift some of Russia’s unenviable inherited burden. Such cases already exist. The documents signed by the Presidents of Russia and several Central and Eastern European States have marked an end to the legacy of the past, which had also been a burden to Russian society. We believe that it is impossible to fully comprehend the consequences of the Soviet occupation without an objective analysis of the events of 1939 and 1940. These consequences have been and continue to be felt in Latvia in the areas of political, economic and social development. No other country lost nearly 40 per cent of its native population during the Second World War; in no other post-war European country has the native population become a minority in seven of its largest cities, including the capital; and no other country has experienced population transfers and mass deportations on such a 2 scale. The Latvian language, too, was under threat of extinction, despite the fact that it had survived for 4,000 years, partly in the form of a unique collection of more than one million folk songs. We wish to protect Latvia’s historical and cultural heritage, because Latvians can preserve their national identity only in this small land on the shores of the Baltic Sea. Latvians never have and never will ask for any other land. I should like to draw the Assembly’s attention to the necessity for regional cooperation. History has repeatedly shown that geographically and historically close States have forged the deepest relations, thereby enriching and furthering mutual development. Following the restoration of independence, the Baltic Parliamentary Assembly was formed, and this month work was begun by the Baltic Council of Ministers, which coordinates our policies in foreign affairs, trade, legislation and other matters. In other words, a balanced and active Baltic union has been created. At the same time, an evolutionary process towards an expanded European Union with a dynamic Nordic-Baltic dimension is taking place. The model for regional cooperation in Northern Europe aspired to by Latvia is 'three plus five' - three Baltic States and five Nordic States. Recognizing the important role played by the United Nations in international peace-keeping, Latvia, together with its neighbours, Estonia and Lithuania, has established the Baltic Battalion, which in the future may participate in the peace-keeping operations of the Security Council. The Nordic States, the United Kingdom and the United States have greatly contributed to the establishment of the Baltic Battalion. We believe that the three Baltic States will thereby further the aims shared by the Member States of the largest and most influential of international bodies - the United Nations. During the cold war the Baltic Sea was a boundary. Nowadays the Baltic Sea unites rather than divides States. Five years ago the 'Baltic Way' - a human chain reaching from Tallinn through Riga to Vilnius - symbolized the shared road towards independence and democracy. Today this road has also regained its historical and economic significance in our region. At the turn of the century the Baltic Way will already be an established part of the global information highway. I wish to reaffirm that Latvia will do its utmost to foster peaceful cooperation and the spirit of understanding, mutual trust and tolerance on the shores of the Baltic Sea. International peace and security and good- neighbourly relations between States are inextricably linked to economic and social development. The end of the cold war has created new opportunities to devote greater attention to these issues. Last spring the Secretary-General issued a report (A/48/935) entitled 'An Agenda for Development'. Latvia welcomes this initiative, which marks a historic turning point in the work of the United Nations. From being an international forum primarily serving the interests of individual States, the United Nations is becoming a representative and defender of the needs of humanity. Economic and social development increases the security of every inhabitant of our planet. We believe that the United Nations and each Member State should recognize the need not only for a coalition for democracy, but also for a fight against organized crime and the trafficking of nuclear materials and narcotics. Without effective solutions to these problems, the security of each inhabitant of our planet and the development of every country and society are endangered. I invite the United Nations to consider organizing a high-level meeting for the solving of those problems. Many components of the United Nations system, primarily the Development Programme, are concerned with the promotion of economic progress. Therefore, within the framework of the aims of the proposed Agenda for Development, one of the challenges is to simplify, renew and integrate the United Nations system. Latvia is among those countries whose economic, governmental and social structures are undergoing a period of transition. Effective United Nations assistance to these countries would speed this process, allowing them to become donor countries sooner. The concept of development is very broad. It includes social and economic progress; justice and democracy, as the foundation of society; and the protection of human rights and the environment. Even if the threat of global nuclear war has subsided, the prospect of environmental catastrophe remains. I therefore restate Latvia’s proposal, first made at the 1992 Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit, to host in Latvia before the end of this century a world summit at which participating States would commit themselves to diverting all resources gained from disarmament towards long-term development, especially for the protection of the environment and reversal of ecological damage caused by military activity. 3 This conference could take place in Jurmala, on the shores of the Baltic Sea. Latvia attaches great importance to international conferences organized by the United Nations. As a member of the Bureau of the Preparatory Committee, Latvia has become actively involved in the preparation for the World Social Summit. Furthermore, Latvia is one of the few States whose head of delegation is also a Vice- President of the Conference. Each global conference is an opportunity for every participating State to review and compare the sum of its experience. The issue of implementing the adopted resolutions at both the national and international levels is yet to be fully addressed. I would like to inform the Assembly of the extent of Latvia’s adherence to the recommendations adopted at the World Conference on Human Rights. In its Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action the Conference invited States to establish and strengthen national institutions for the protection of human rights. The Conference recommended that each State consider the desirability of drawing up a national action plan identifying steps whereby that State would improve the promotion and protection of human rights. Latvia demonstrated its commitment to United Nations principles and its readiness to implement the recommendations of the Conference by establishing in March 1994 the post of State Minister for Human Rights, as well as forming a Government Working Group on the Protection of the Rights of Individuals, allocating the necessary resources towards these ends. We believe that the United Nations should devote a greater percentage of its regular budget to the promotion and protection of human rights. In response to a request by the Working Group, a high-level international mission organized by the United Nations Development Programme visited Latvia in July this year. The mission, which included representatives of several international organizations, including CSCE and the Council of Europe, consulted Latvia on the development of a national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights. At Latvia’s invitation, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights will visit Latvia in October this year. I am proud that Latvia is one of the first countries to have demonstrated an awareness of its responsibility by establishing a national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights. Latvia is prepared to discuss and share its knowledge and experience with all interested parties. We support the proposal made to the General Assembly by Mr. Boris Yeltsin, President of the Russian Federation, that the principles of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National, Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities be embodied in the legislation of all Member States. At the World Conference on Human Rights Latvia called for the establishment of standards and implementation mechanisms for the rights of minorities and foreigners. Those activities in the sphere of human rights are grounded in history. Prior to the Second World War, as a member of the League of Nations, Latvia fostered harmonious inter-ethnic relations. We are now trying to renew and cultivate this great tradition. Immediately after the restoration of its independence Latvia declared its accession to all the principal international human rights instruments. As I have already mentioned, a major effort is being made in the establishment of a national programme for the promotion and protection of the human rights of the individual in order that every individual be guaranteed equal rights and an equal opportunity to defend these rights. I believe that the concept of equal opportunity not only characterizes the fundamental rights of the individual, but is also a prerequisite for development. Latvia has always been open to cooperation with the United Nations, the CSCE and other international organizations. Latvia reaffirmed this when it passed its Citizenship Law. In promulgating this legislation, it followed the recommendations of the CSCE and the Council of Europe, and the passing of the law has been evaluated positively by these organizations. The need for rationalizing and revitalizing the work of the United Nations is becoming ever more apparent. Latvia is actively participating in the search for optimal solutions. Latvia supports the enlargement of the Security Council, perceiving this as a fair opportunity for small nations to increase their role in important international decision-making. Latvia also supports the improvement of cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and other international organizations, including the CSCE, the European Union and the Council of Europe. We also welcome and support the action taken by the Secretary-General to introduce a new, effective system 4 of accountability and responsibility, and, pursuant to the United States initiative, to establish the Office of Internal Oversight Services. Latvia supports especially the initiative to reform the calculation of United Nations assessments, based strictly on the principle of 'capacity to pay'. This would be a step towards improving the dire financial situation of the Organization and would pave the way for a fair solution to the issue of the assessments of Latvia and many other States. Although the inescapable difficulties associated with a transition period can still be felt in our economy and social sector, Latvia is endeavouring to fulfil its international obligations and commitments. However, contrary to standard United Nations practice, the current assessment of Latvia has been calculated without taking into account its actual capacity to pay. Instead, the data of a non-existent country - the former Soviet Union - has been used to determine Latvia’s assessment. Latvia has consistently and unwaveringly stated that it was forcibly incorporated into the former Soviet Union and therefore is not, and cannot ever be, its successor, with all the rights and obligations that this would entail. This was also stated in a letter to the Secretary-General in 1992. Latvia expects that the General Assembly will address this issue in the course of this session on the basis of the principle of sovereign equality. We consider that the same importance should be accorded to the United Nations principle of universality. Next year, the world will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. Latvia, too, has begun preparations for this great anniversary. We hope that the Riga Dom Boys Choir will sing at the celebration concert to be held here in New York. This would be deeply symbolic, since future generations will shape the fate of nations. In many ways their fate will be decided by the heritage we leave to our children. We must do our utmost to draw closer to the age when nations will not fight against nations, but all will join forces in the battle against darkness. This sentiment, which has been drawn deep from the well of our national wisdom, seems to embody the essence of the United Nations now and in the future. President Snegur (spoke in Moldovan; English text furnished by the delegation): Allow me at the outset, Sir, to extend to you my cordial and sincere congratulations on the occasion of your election as President of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that your competence and active cooperation with Member States will pave the way for a successful and fruitful session. At the same time, I should like to express my deep gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally for the outstanding work accomplished in his capacity as President of the previous session. I should also like to express sentiments of our utmost consideration to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose activities in redefining the role of this prestigious Organization in this changing world enjoy the appreciation and support of the Republic of Moldova. I am honoured to represent the Republic of Moldova for the second time at this rostrum. Nearly three years ago, in March 1992, I expressed gratitude to Member States for their considerable support extended to my country by recognizing it at the international level as an independent State and by accepting it into the large family of the United Nations. Looking back over these years, I should like to note that the Republic of Moldova gained its independence in a complex political context in which the aspirations for freedom and democracy of nations led to the collapse of totalitarian regimes and the emergence of new States. Unfortunately, those positive changes were followed by negative tendencies, such as threats to subregional and regional security. Moreover, we are witnessing the reappearance and aggravation of some older problems connected to national minorities, territorial disputes, the presence of foreign military troops on the territory of new independent States, the intensification of some separatist tendencies, often inspired and directed from abroad, and so on. Under these circumstances, the state of affairs is more complex than we could imagine. The euphoria that followed the events in Eastern Europe and on the territory of the former Soviet Union generated in some the opinion that the two main objectives - democratization of society and building a market-oriented economy, both compulsory for the institutional reintegration of new States into the democratic world - would not face serious obstacles. Now, however, we find that there is a desynchronization and even a time disparity between those two objectives. I would say that that disparity is even more evident in the new independent States that emerged as a result of the collapse of the former Soviet Union. In this sense, the Republic of Moldova is no exception. The situation requires a larger conceptual and practical effort to correct such desynchronizations. It is obvious that the United Nations cannot remain indifferent to the difficulties that confront the countries in transition. In this connection, we consider that the Secretary-General’s intention to draw up an agenda for development is particularly opportune, and we welcome it. In our opinion the assistance granted by the United Nations to young States should be provided on the basis of the concrete conditions prevailing in every specific country and the programmes being elaborated in each. Located at the intersection of the geopolitical interests of some great Powers, Moldova was incorporated into a State and political entity in which democratic values were meaningless. The experience of Moldova is different from that of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, where the communist 'freezer' functioned for only four decades and something was preserved from the previous democratic development. That is why we had to begin the process of democratization and market transition almost from the very beginning. The deepening of the economic crisis can be explained to a large extent by the fact that we do not have at our disposal sufficient financial and energy resources or the raw materials necessary to support these reforms. In addition, our country’s potential was affected this year by a natural disaster of which the international community has already been informed. We suffered human losses and considerable material damage, and we had to mobilize every effort and all resources to subdue the elements and overcome their consequences. Our voice was heard by the international community. I should like to express my sincere gratitude to the international organizations and countries that granted humanitarian assistance to the Republic of Moldova and my sincere gratitude to the Members of the United Nations for their understanding and sympathy, which they manifested by adopting the resolution (48/266) entitled 'Emergency assistance to the Republic of Moldova' during the forty- eighth session of the General Assembly. Over the three years that have elapsed since the proclamation of the independence of the Republic of Moldova, on 27 August 1991, our decision to develop democracy and a State of law with a market economy has remained firm, in spite of transitional difficulties. This firm decision is being realized through our efforts to create the necessary legislative premises for promoting reforms, including privatization, for transforming the economy to one based on market relations and for ensuring respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. The recent parliamentary elections held on a multi- party basis were free and fair, and this was confirmed by international observers. Another significant event was the adoption of the Constitution, which paves the way for the real independence and democracy chosen by the people of the Republic of Moldova. The Republic of Moldova has ratified a series of important international Conventions on human rights. We have consequently undertaken new commitments to change the internal juridical framework in accordance with international standards. Measures have been taken to guarantee the rights of the national minorities, some of which were on the edge of losing their identity during the Soviet regime. Many provisions of Moldovan legislation are aimed at protecting the right to retain, develop and utilize the language spoken on the territory of the country. Under the new Constitution, special forms of autonomy may be granted to some human settlements in the east and south of the Republic of Moldova in accordance with special juridical statutes adopted under the constitutional laws. For example, a draft for such a statute for the southern region is being examined in the Parliament. We consider that the good intentions of the Government of the Republic of Moldova and its concrete and positive actions represent essential premises for the elimination of sources of tension. It is our strong belief that they can be eliminated, and with less controversy, not through the use of force but in a peaceful way through negotiation and dialogue; as an old saying teaches us: 'It is better to have a year of negotiations than a day of war'. This is true, since any armed conflict provokes human and material losses. The Republic of Moldova is and will remain fully committed to constructive negotiations, on the condition, 2 of course, that all the parties involved demonstrate political will and common sense. At the same time we cannot ignore the fact that in spite of reasonable compromises made by Chisinau, tendencies of separatism still exist in eastern regions, and human rights continue to be flagrantly violated. For example, despite the fact that the Moldovan authorities and several international organizations, including the United Nations, have expressed their deep concern about the situation of the 'Ilascu Group', as of today the members of the Group are still illegally detained. Another example is this: the Moldovans from the left bank of the Dniester river are prohibited from using the Latin alphabet in their schooling. The separatist leaders from Tiraspol continue to obstruct the signing of the already-endorsed agreement on the legal status and the modalities and stages of the complete withdrawal of the 14th Army. I want to emphasize once again that a complete, orderly and unconditional withdrawal of foreign military troops from the territory of the Republic of Moldova is the will of our people. This will is clearly reflected in our Constitution, which forbids the deployment of foreign troops on the territory of the Republic of Moldova. In this context, it should be mentioned that the authorities of the Russian Federation show a correct understanding of our position. I would like to underline the important role of the international community, the international organizations, including the United Nations, and especially the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) in facilitating the bilateral negotiations. I avail myself of this opportunity to congratulate Estonia and Latvia on the withdrawal of foreign military troops from their territory and, at the same time, to express our hope that the international community will support the same kind of appropriate and orderly withdrawal of foreign troops in the case of the Republic of Moldova. I should like to touch upon the subject of separatism and discuss it in a larger perspective. It is well known that many regions of the world are currently affected by separatist tendencies. Respecting the right of nations to self-determination - a fundamental right outlined in international documents - we cannot ignore the fact that this right is often used as a tool serving the interests of certain political groups and, in that context, this right has nothing to do with the legitimate aspirations of people to liberty and national sovereignty. Today, in my opinion, at the end of the millennium the separatist phenomenon is an extremely negative one, and to ignore it can lead to tragic consequences for many countries - indeed, for the entire world. In such circumstances, can we afford to allow dozens of artificially induced States to emerge as a result of the pressure of certain interested political groups? Will this further the strengthening of international stability and security? We do not believe so. Given that the majority of States have a multi-ethnic configuration, and could be affected by such separatist tendencies, we cannot but emphasize the dangers this might entail. That is why we believe that this kind of separatism - today’s deadly world virus - must be condemned by the international community. We think that this issue should be more closely examined, and we hope that the United Nations will give due attention to this matter. The Republic of Moldova has joined the United Nations as a young European country. Our European aspirations are determined by our geopolitical and cultural affiliations to the European democratic space, and we are linked to it by our Latin heritage also. For us, to be isolated from the European space and its values means to facilitate the re-emergence of some influences from which we suffered painfully in the recent past. That is why our vital and fundamental goal is the integration of our country into Europe. In this context, we firmly look forward to increasing cooperation and linkage with the Council of Europe, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Western European Union (WEU), and the CSCE, including expanding our relations with the European Union, which represents the main guarantee of democratic practices and values. The implementation of our options depends crucially on the willingness of the economic and political-strategic Euro-Atlantic structures to support Moldova actively. I think that establishing economic relations with the independent States of the former Soviet Union and joining the Commonwealth of Independent States - where we participate only in the economic structures and are not involved in collective security or political-military cooperation - will not become an obstacle to our gradual integration into the Euro-Atlantic structures. We believe that in these times nobody wants new dividing lines in Europe or in any other part of the world. On the contrary, we need to eliminate those once generated by the cold war. At the turn of the century, not only Europe but the whole world finds itself in a complex process of transformation. We want to establish new forms of 3 collaboration that would respond to the aspirations and the needs of all States. The day is approaching when the international community will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. In all these years the United Nations has been - and it remains - the major universal centre for maintaining peace and international security and for mobilizing the efforts of States, in cooperation with regional organizations, towards settling global issues. The Republic of Moldova has the honour to contribute, together with other States, to the implementation of the noble ideals of the World Organization. I am especially pleased to inform the Assembly that a committee for coordinating the activities and manifestations dedicated to the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations has been created in the Republic of Moldova. In calling to mind the achievements and successes of the United Nations system, we cannot but mention the fact that so far it has operated under the guidance of a Charter conceived 50 years ago. I think that the new international realities might call for some essential modifications to adapt the provisions of the Charter to these realities. The Republic of Moldova supports the reforms initiated by the United Nations aimed at improving the efficiency of the Organization and its major bodies. Our country shares the views expressed by the delegations of many countries within the Open-ended Working Group regarding the issue of fair representation on the Security Council. The Council’s composition, its functioning and methods of work should be modified without affecting the efficiency of its activities in its main field, which is ensuring international peace and security. Taking into account the active role and contribution performed in the United Nations by Germany and Japan and their possibilities of assuming specific responsibilities in keeping international peace and security, Moldova supports the candidatures of these two countries as permanent members of the Security Council. Our position on fair representation on the Security Council is that it is necessary to take into account all regional groups recognized in the United Nations. In this sense, the Republic of Moldova supports the proposal of the Netherlands to grant an additional seat to each geographic group, including countries from Eastern Europe. Consultations and debates on such an important subject should be supplemented with practical organizational and procedural measures, such as setting up some subsidiary bodies of the Security Council in accordance with Article 29 of the Charter, and increasing and expanding cooperation with the General Assembly and the regional organizations. At the same time, we consider that the working methods of the most representative body of the United Nations - the General Assembly - could also be modified. We are all interested in directing those activities as much as possible towards consolidating the principles of justice, democracy and development. The delegation of Moldova supports the decisions adopted at the forty-seventh session aimed at increasing the efficiency of the General Assembly and rationalizing the activities of its Commissions. There is a direct link between peace and security on the one hand and economic and social development on the other. In this new era, when the United Nations is increasing its efforts to maintain international peace and security, we should not forget about the persistence of inequalities and of grave social and economic problems, which affect all countries, particularly those in transition and the developing ones. In this sense, reform of the Organization should include economic and social mechanisms, especially the Economic and Social Council. This reform, already initiated, should be more effective in implementation and be more rational in the utilization of available resources. In this context, I should like to stress the importance of the two previous sessions of the Commission for Sustainable Development, whose work we hope will maintain and intensify the impulse generated by the Rio de Janeiro Conference on Environment and Development with respect to the rapid implementation of the commitments made in the framework of Agenda 21. Turning to another matter, I would like to note that the Republic of Moldova is aware of the financial crisis of the Organization. We are not indifferent to this situation, and I would like to assure the Assembly that my country will do its best to fulfil its commitments. The recommendations of the last session of the Committee on Contributions concerning the re-examination and adjustment of the scale of assessments of Member States reflect more justly States’ real capacity to pay. We hope that the General Assembly will take these recommendations into consideration in the spirit of justice and solidarity which characterizes the United Nations. 4 In conclusion, I express the hope that the constructive atmosphere that characterizes the United Nations will help us to identify the problems faced by the international community and to find the necessary solutions. The delegation of the Republic of Moldova expresses its readiness to cooperate most actively and efficiently with the delegations of other States in order to achieve the high goals of the United Nations. It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his election to guide the work of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. His election to that important post is testimony to his personal credentials and to the important role played by Côte d’Ivoire in international affairs. I am confident that his wise guidance and leadership will enable this session of the General Assembly to deal successfully with the very important issues on its agenda. I should also like to commend the work of his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana, who demonstrated outstanding diplomatic skills and dedication in so ably steering the work of the forty- eighth session of the General Assembly to a successful conclusion. Allow me also to pay a well-deserved tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, for his untiring efforts in promoting international peace and security and justice. The winds of change that are currently sweeping across the world give us, more then ever before, new hope in the promise of a better future, a future in which scarce resources will be utilized to feed the millions of hungry mouths and to provide basic health care, safe drinking water and a basic level of education to the needy rather than be again spent to build military might and to threaten the world with a new era of confrontation - a future which will provide a safe and clean environment in which human beings can live safely, in dignity, respect and hope. The recently held World Conference on Human Rights, the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, the International Conference on Population and Development and the forthcoming World Conference on Women and World Summit for Social Development are clear testimony to that hope. This was the dream of our founding fathers, and it is also ours. With the end of the cold war and on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, let us not hesitate to rededicate ourselves once again, with more vigour and more commitment, to the fulfilment of this dream. The United Nations must be able to evolve and promote a stronger and more comprehensive system for preventive diplomacy and peacemaking. Let us not allow potentially dangerous situations to escalate into situations that leave the international community with no alternative but to take painful and expensive measures to enforce peace. Most important, the Organization must play a revitalized role as the principal broker and promoter of peace and justice in the world. My delegation welcomes the present process of restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations. We are hopeful that the process of reform will take into consideration the concerns of all States to protect their security and maintain their sovereignty and territorial integrity. The establishment of effective measures of internal oversight of the United Nations system is one of the useful steps taken by the General Assembly. Special 14 attention must be given to all the issues involved in the choice and recruitment of personnel if we truly intend to improve the efficiency of the Organization, and we must emphasize quality rather than quantity so that the United Nations system may remain non-biased, less-politicized and vibrant. For Maldives, the United Nations has always been and will always be the best hope for warding off challenges to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all States. The Charter of the United Nations, which we remain firmly bound to honour, recognizes the inalienable right of every nation to exist within secure boundaries and of the people of every country to live in dignity and peace. It therefore falls to the world Organization to be the unequivocal guarantor of security and protection for those countries that lack the physical means to provide their own or that might simply be overrun by more powerful States. Once again at this session the United Nations General Assembly will deliberate the agenda item on the protection and security of small States. My delegation hopes that important item will once again receive the same attention and support it was given at the forty-fourth and forty-sixth sessions. My delegation draws inspiration from the unwavering and renewed resolve of the international community with regard to important security and political issues, which was significantly demonstrated in the Gulf crisis, among others. The inherent vulnerability of small States was never more clearly demonstrated than it was in the case of the international intervention in Kuwait in 1990. Who, indeed, could have imagined that a fully sovereign State Member of the United Nations, economically strong and with powerful friends, would find itself at risk of being wiped off the world political map - and if a country like Kuwait can be forced into such a precarious position, where is the security of far smaller and economically weaker States? The recent instances in which the United Nations took firm and decisive action certainly highlight the importance and effectiveness of the collective-security system envisaged in the Charter. In addition, they brought home to the international community the fact that a rapid-response system needs to be constantly in place if international peace and security are to be maintained. The Security Council Summit Meeting in January 1992 reaffirmed that body’s commitment to collective security as a valid principle in the maintenance of international peace and security. My delegation believes that this is the time to give urgent and deeper consideration to the overall question of collective security. This is easily said, but the subject includes the question of improving the skill and ability to exercise foresight and act with dispatch, as well as of building up the capacity and capability to move with greater coordination. True success in accomplishing this challenging task facing the international community will require sincere commitment and dedication. This can be achieved only if every Member of the Organization exercises the political will to settle all disputes peacefully, without discrimination, and to assist the United Nations to move forward in that direction. The recommendations set forth in the Secretary-General’s report, 'An Agenda for Peace', on preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping, peacemaking and post-conflict peace-building, can serve as an extremely effective tool to achieve this end. My delegation sincerely feels that as we study together every possible means of strengthening the structure of the United Nations to make it more effective and responsive to a changing world the security of small States must be given its rightful place when priorities are reviewed and special consideration given the task of preserving international peace, security and stability. One of the most encouraging events in world history has been the classic manner in which the Republic of South Africa, under the leadership of President Nelson Mandela, has not only eliminated the policy of apartheid, that most inhuman form of racial discrimination, but also established democracy with full respect for all the norms of national reconciliation. It is therefore with sincere sentiments of congratulation and good wishes that my delegation welcomes the restoration of the Republic of South Africa to its rightful place in the family of nations and this Organization. I view the positive developments in the Middle East as a most valuable lesson on how sincere, determined and dedicated efforts based on peace and conciliation can yield rich dividends in dangerously volatile situations. I sincerely feel that the international community owes a debt of gratitude to the Governments of the United States of America and other States concerned for their most valuable contributions to the creation of the necessary atmosphere for the ongoing peace negotiations in the Middle East, in which I fervently hope and pray the inalienable rights of the people of Palestine will be restored. I am convinced that the present trend of events, if pursued with patience and in good faith by all the 15 parties involved, will result in the establishment of a sovereign, independent State of Palestine, the settlement of the issues related to the occupied Territories and finally the attainment by that region of a comprehensive and lasting peace based on the principles of justice and equality. Time and again Maldives has stressed the importance of continuing accelerated efforts to attain the United Nations goal of completing the disarmament process. My delegation firmly believes that success in preserving and maintaining international peace, security and stability will depend on progress in the field of disarmament. Admittedly, there have been significant achievements in this area. However, the production, stockpiling and sale of weapons of war continue on an alarming scale throughout the world. Although there is a convergence of views regarding the dangers of nuclear arms, some countries seem to desire to acquire or retain nuclear-weapons technology. We believe that so long as this trend continues unabated it will indeed be difficult to improve the climate of security and to pave the way for a safer world for generations to come. One of the key disarmament issues confronting the international community is the question of a decision on extending the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We remain convinced that its unconditional and indefinite extension should be one of the cornerstones for building a world free of all nuclear weapons. But this requires that all the countries possessing nuclear weapons and nuclear-weapons technology take a responsible stand, something that can come about only through a sincere desire to establish a genuine international non-nuclear regime. In our opinion, the apparent reluctance of some countries to comply with the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards system is not encouraging. We therefore urge all those countries to join the international community in the persistent effort to establish a safer world. My delegation also supports the concept of the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones and zones of peace throughout the world. We feel that the failure to promote this concept in all regions of the world is a clear indication of the doubt and suspicion that still prevail in the international community. Unless we can overcome these uncertainties the chances of achieving global disarmament will indeed be bleak. As we begin yet another session of discussions, consultations and debates on ways and means of uniting our efforts and resources to make the world a safer place for mankind and to alleviate the terrible human suffering in many countries, we should, I firmly believe, pause to assess the tremendous responsibility we carry. As representatives of individual countries, we have to consider our national interests; united, we have an unshakable commitment to giving undaunted and unwavering support to the process of making the United Nations as effective as is humanly possible, to prevent the evolution of such tragic, dangerous and explosive situations as those in Somalia, Rwanda and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The question of Bosnia and Herzegovina has yet to be resolved. We condemn the continuing violence and genocide there, and call upon the international community to take more decisive steps to implement the Security Council’s resolutions in order to discharge fully the responsibilities entrusted to us by the Charter and restore the sovereignty and independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let us not tolerate in our time any act of genocide based on ethnic hatred or prejudice. Similarly, my delegation is deeply concerned about the tragic situations continuing in Angola, Somalia and Rwanda despite the fact that the United Nations is still providing humanitarian assistance to alleviate the suffering of their peoples. While commending the efforts of the international community to help these countries, which are being torn apart by civil strife, we feel that the assistance should not be limited to meeting humanitarian needs, but should extend beyond that to restoring peace and stability in those countries, giving them another chance to rebuild their national economies. As I observe the world economic situation I cannot but feel considerable dismay at the fact that, despite the recent conclusion of the seven-year Uruguay Round of negotiations, the developing countries have not been provided with much impetus to maintain economic growth in the face of the increasing gap between themselves and the developed countries and of persistent protectionism in trade. The situation adversely affects the least-developed countries most as they lack the resources to overcome the odds stacked against them. I feel that further intensification of South-South cooperation has become more necessary, in order to harness their resources for purposes of assisting the less developed of the developing countries and encouraging developmental efforts on the basis of collective self-reliance. The United Nations and 16 the international developmental and financial institutions should encourage and support this process. At the same time, the North-South dialogue must not be allowed to be marginalized, since it is essential for the growth of a world economy on a firm foundation of partnership to promote common interests and benefits. Without this basic element, the chances of promoting a stable world economy indeed seem bleak. After decades of protracted studies, research, discussions and debates, and then the resulting experience, we are today in a position to appreciate fully that development is not simple. It can be achieved only through a process that encompasses numerous attributes of human life; education, health, the environment, peace, the economy, society and culture and national and international behaviour all contribute to its achievement. The reviews and expert opinions gathered on the Agenda for Development, together with the recent sessions of the Commission on Sustainable Development, indicate that intergovernmental cooperation involving the various agencies of the United Nations, regional organizations and non-governmental organizations must contribute to laying the groundwork for development. I do not foresee any easy or quick means of achieving development goals. While further detailed consideration is given to this multifaceted, all-important question, I should like to add my voice on the need to bear in mind the great diversity in the levels of progress that Member countries have been able to achieve, and the wide variation in the extent of resources that they can invest in this venture, which is an inherent right of every nation. As the representative of a small island State, I pay tribute to all those responsible for the planning and organization of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which was held in Barbados this year. I believe that appropriate recognition has now been given to the special environmental and economic circumstances of small island States in the context of achieving sustainable development. One of the most important outcomes of this Conference was a re-emphasis on the dire need of small island developing States for the development of human resources. But assessment of the need is only a prelude to the implementation of any programme of action. What is required is sustained effort by the developing States and technical and other input by the developed countries and international organizations. In view of the Programme of Action and Declaration emanating from the Barbados Conference, as well as Agenda 21, I need hardly emphasize the urgent need to stimulate positive responses by the international community with regard to assisting the island developing States to improve the socio-economic standards of their peoples in order to embark on plans for sustainable development. At the same time, we are concerned at the speed at which international conferences are being held and ambitious programmes of action being drawn up without sufficient resources to implement them. I make this statement because of the experience we have had following the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio in 1992. The expectations which followed that conference have started to recede because of insufficient resources available to implement the programme of action. One of the most outstanding results of the Conference was the creation of greater awareness of the environmental problems that the international community faces. At the same time, it is tragic to note that greater awareness of the predicament on the part of those countries most susceptible to environmental damage only helps to increase apprehensions of disaster and frustration. As an island developing country, Maldives appreciates the tremendous achievement of the international community in establishing the rule of law on the vast stretches of the high seas, which cover two thirds of the surface of the Earth. The fact that it took 12 long years after its adoption for the Convention on the Law of the Sea to enter into force is indeed a development that will be written in letters of gold in the annals of world history. The question of human rights should occupy a central place in our minds when we deal with all issues of global concern. The establishment of the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights is certainly a most welcome step. But this step can have meaningful results only if the necessary resources are provided for the High Commissioner to carry out his mandate fairly and objectively, without any further financial burdens on the membership of this Organization. I would also like to emphasize here that, while the Universal Declaration of 1948 may be the universal guide for future work in this area, we must not attempt to lay down rigidly uniform standards of human conduct and behaviour for all societies without due respect for and regard to the diverse cultures and religions prevailing in 17 the world. For it is the full understanding of this diversity that reinforces the fabric of what we call international relations and the unity of the membership of this Organization. The United Nations is being burdened with more and more onerous responsibilities not only for the preservation and maintenance of international peace, security and stability, but for also assisting mankind in the realization of the goals of a safer world and a higher standard of living for the generations to come. I remain convinced that if this universal Organization is to be successful in meeting the numerous challenges before it, every one of its Members must extend unstinting financial, technological, military and manpower-resource support to the Organization. We cannot afford to be complacent, nor can we condone any attempts to deflect the work of the United Nations to any path other than that of right, justice and equality, as enshrined in the Charter. For my part, I can only reiterate the sincere commitment of the Government of the Republic of Maldives to supporting the United Nations and the principles of the Charter to the best of our ability. Only by so doing is there any hope of avoiding disastrous consequences. What is more, the Government of the Republic of Maldives implicitly trusts the United Nations as the guarantor of its security and as its protector. It gives me great pleasure to extend to you, also on behalf of the Indonesian delegation, our congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. We are gratified that the stewardship of this session is entrusted to a seasoned diplomat and statesman, representing a fraternal African country with which Indonesia has traditionally enjoyed close relations of friendship and cooperation. May I also express our deep appreciation to your distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Insanally of Guyana, for so capably guiding our work during a most eventful year. I join other members in paying tribute to the Secretary-General for his determined efforts to resolve various conflict situations across the globe and his endeavours to make the United Nations a more efficient and effective instrument of global governance in these challenging times. We meet at a time of pervasive change and transition, a time in which global problems appear less susceptible to easy solutions, earlier concepts and approaches less relevant and existing institutions less effective. It is also a time of contradictions and paradoxes in which resurgent hopes are nurtured amidst deepening anxieties and bright new opportunities are overcast by unprecedented challenges in a world that is coalescing and fragmenting at the same time. The euphoria which permeated the international community at the end of the cold war has dissipated and is being replaced by a growing sense of uncertainty, disquiet and disillusionment. With the sobering experience of the Gulf war and the horrendous incidence of 'ethnic cleansing' and violence in the former Yugoslavia, Somalia and Rwanda, there is far less certainty now on how best to respond to the demands and vicissitudes of a world of deepening interdependence among countries and the globalization of ever more intricate and inter-linked problems of peace, security and development. Our greatest challenge, therefore, is how collectively to fashion a more effective system of global governance to manage the massive changes that are transforming the shape and substance of international relations in the decades ahead. If the pursuit of this basic objective is to succeed, there can be no doubt that it should be based on the recognition of the United Nations as its centre-piece and principal mechanism. The United Nations is the only universal institution we have today, and any system of global governance, to be viable and to achieve common acceptance by the world community as a whole, must be firmly rooted in the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter and organized on the precepts of sovereign equality, common interest and benefit, equitably shared responsibility and joint commitment to global cooperation. It is therefore vitally important that the effectiveness and dynamism of our Organization be ensured and maintained. Since the United Nations was founded almost five decades ago, the world has changed almost beyond recognition, and international problems have become immensely more complex. The United Nations today bears a heavier load of responsibilities than it has ever borne. Ironically, at this time it is also saddled with a deepening financial crisis. This paradoxical situation, in which the United Nations is expected to deal with a multitude of problems while woefully strapped for funds, cannot continue without adverse consequences for the world community. Just as important is the need to ensure that the United Nations system remains faithful to the democratic principles on which it was founded and attuned to the realities of the times. We therefore believe that the process of reforming the United Nations system should go beyond merely improving its procedures and practices and should, inter alia, take into account such essential aspects as the representation of Member States at all levels of the system and their effective participation in decision-making processes. The General Assembly should play a central role in shaping that process at the same time as its work is being continually rationalized. On the question of an increase in the membership of the Security Council, my delegation has clearly defined its position on various occasions in the past. The last review of the Council’s composition was undertaken nearly three decades ago. Since then there has been a tremendous increase in the number of United Nations Members, thus rendering the enlargement of the Council a matter of urgency. Such an increase should take into account the principle of equitable geographic representation and accommodate the interests and concerns of the developing countries, which comprise the overwhelming majority in the Organization. Furthermore, my delegation supports the proposal to increase the number of permanent members of the Security Council. In this respect, it is our view that, while the principle of geographic representation is important, it should not be the only criterion to determine eligibility for new permanent 19 members. We believe that other objective criteria are equally important: political, economic and demographic realities; a country’s capability and record of contributing to the promotion of peace, security and economic development, both regionally and globally; and the commitment of States to assume the responsibilities inherent in such a status. In these endeavours our goals must remain the promotion of transparency, legitimacy, accountability and efficiency. In the economic and social fields, as well as in development cooperation, it has been said that the United Nations system operates without sufficient coordination and coherence. However, in addressing this concern, we do not see the particular merit of a proposal for the establishment of an economic security council at this time. Rather, the Economic and Social Council should be further strengthened and should be allowed to assert its full role as envisioned in the United Nations Charter. In this regard, I think it would be productive to invite the Ministers responsible for finance and development planning, or other relevant Ministers, to participate in the deliberations on important development issues at the Economic and Social Council’s high-level segment meetings. The United Nations should also continue to strengthen its coordination with the Bretton Woods institutions so as to achieve increased policy coherence and to enhance development cooperation. Although the demise of the cold war has reduced the threat of nuclear war, it has not eliminated the danger posed by nuclear weapons. Nuclear disarmament remains an imperative. It is hoped that with further success in the critical area of limiting and reducing armaments, the quantitative growth of nuclear weapons will soon be curbed. Recent encouraging developments include a significant reduction of the world’s two largest nuclear arsenals as a result of the successful conclusion of the Treaty on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms (START II) and of the fact that a moratorium on nuclear tests continues to be observed by most of the nuclear-weapon States. In this context, the importance of a comprehensive test-ban treaty as a major step towards nuclear disarmament and as an urgent measure to protect the environment cannot be overemphasized. For this reason, the Conference on Disarmament has been given a clear and explicit mandate to negotiate a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing. Unfortunately, lack of political will on the part of some nuclear-weapon States has created obstacles to progress in this vital work. It is essential that serious and concerted efforts be undertaken in the Conference on Disarmament in conjunction with the broader multilateral endeavours in the Amendment Conference on the partial test-ban Treaty to ensure the conclusion of a universal and effectively verifiable treaty within a fixed time-frame. Such a treaty, we believe, would serve as a truly credible instrument of a nuclear non-proliferation regime. The convening of the 1995 review and extension Conference on the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) provides a unique opportunity to make a sober assessment of its implementation. It is beyond doubt that the question of the extension of the NPT is linked to such critical issues as nuclear disarmament, the dissemination of nuclear know-how for peaceful purposes, security assurances to non-nuclear States and the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones. Hence, the issues we face next year should not be oversimplified to a mere choice between limited and unlimited duration or between conditional and unconditional extension of the NPT. The longevity of the Treaty will ultimately depend upon the resolution of these multifarious issues and the sincerity of the nuclear-weapon States in fulfilling their obligations. Regional and subregional organizations continue to make substantial contributions to the cause of disarmament and peace. In the Asia-Pacific region, the Regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) was launched last July in Bangkok, reflecting the desire of the countries of the region to ensure a peaceful and stable political and security environment for their peoples. This forum is unique because it was not established in response to a crisis but, rather, as an exercise in preventive diplomacy to manage strategic change in such a way that a stable relationship among the major Powers as well as among the regional Powers will evolve gradually and peacefully over the next decade. At the same time ASEAN is intensifying its efforts to realize its blueprint for a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality with a South-East Asian nuclear weapon-free zone as its component part. Its realization would be a major step towards stable peace in the region and a significant regional contribution to global disarmament and non-proliferation. Although the Asia-Pacific region now enjoys relative peace, it is by no means free of tension and the anxiety of potential conflict. Among the actual and potential problems that the region must face is the persistence of inter-State disputes, especially territorial disputes and overlapping claims of sovereignty which could intensify if their potential for conflict were not effectively 20 managed. That was why in its Manila Declaration of 1992, ASEAN stressed that its Treaty of Amity and Cooperation should serve as a basis for the establishment of a code of international conduct in the area and thus called for the peaceful settlement of disputes and the non-use of force. The positive response of the major Powers and of the countries of the region towards the Treaty serving as such a code of conduct at the first meeting of the ASEAN Regional Forum makes it even more necessary to promote cooperative efforts among countries that have overlapping claims of sovereignty in the South China Sea in order to ensure the peaceful development of the area. As regards the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula, the agreement reached last August between the Governments of the United States and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea was a major step towards a resolution of this problem. We continue to believe that this complex issue can be resolved only through the exercise of mutual restraint and through sincere and sustained dialogue and negotiations. In the Middle East, the pursuit of peace continues to gather momentum and promises to herald a new era. The historic Declaration of Principles signed between the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of Israel over a year ago has been followed by the Accord signed in Cairo last March, which laid down the modalities for transition to Palestinian self-government in the Gaza Strip and Jericho and thus paved the way for the triumphant return of President Yasser Arafat to these areas. Yet another breakthrough is the signing of the Washington Declaration between Jordan and Israel which ended the state of war between them and opens the way for the conclusion of a comprehensive peace treaty. While my delegation welcomes these positive developments, we are also acutely conscious of the formidable challenges that still lie ahead. Palestinian autonomy should now be widened to include the economic, social and cultural aspects of national life, and Palestinian self-rule should now be extended throughout occupied Palestinian territories. Furthermore, the international community should expedite its promised assistance to the Palestinian Authority in rebuilding the necessary infrastructures. It is also self-evident that progress on the other tracks of Arab-Israeli negotiations is a sine qua non for a comprehensive settlement of the Middle East question on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). The ultimate guarantee for peace is Israel’s withdrawal from all occupied territories, including the Golan Heights and southern Lebanon. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the atrocities, senseless killings of civilians and 'ethnic cleansing' perpetrated by the Bosnian Serbs have continued unabated. The pleas of the Bosnian Government for effective international intervention or at least the lifting of the ill-conceived arms embargo have gone unheeded. The savagery of the conflict has few historical precedents and the ambivalence of the international community has contributed to its perpetuation and the ever-present threat of a spill-over. By rejecting the latest peace plan proposed by the Contact Group, the Bosnian Serbs have dealt a serious set-back to international efforts to end the conflict. The carnage cannot just go on. It is incumbent upon the Security Council to unequivocally pronounce itself on the non-applicability of resolution 713 (1991) concerning the imposition of an arms embargo on Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, in the face of the continued intransigence of the Bosnian Serbs, the Security Council must take strong and determined measures in order to ensure the realization of the peace plan. Concurrently, the international community should consider devising a mechanism for negotiations, including the convening of an appropriately structured international conference, to deal with the wider aspects of the conflict in and around the former Yugoslavia, leading ultimately to a comprehensive solution that would enable the people in that region to live securely in peace, free from aggression, domination and external interference. Earlier this year, the people of South Africa finally put an end to apartheid by holding the first-ever non-racial elections and by subsequently installing the first, democratically elected government under President Nelson Mandela. We have all joyously welcomed this historic event as well as South Africa’s resumption of its rightful place in the community of nations. Indonesia looks forward to developing close and mutually beneficial cooperation with the new Government and the people of South Africa. Elsewhere in Africa, however, we were deeply anguished to witness in Rwanda the rampage of violence which has triggered an exodus of refugees to neighbouring countries and has brought about a humanitarian crisis of catastrophic proportions. With the end of fighting and bloodshed and the establishment of the new government in Kigali, we hope that the parties concerned will resume the process of national 21 reconciliation based on the Arusha Agreement, which indeed provides an appropriate framework for the purpose. The situation in Somalia continues to be marked by recurrent outbreaks of violence and a deterioration of the security situation. We remain convinced that a solution to the civil strife in that country can only be achieved through sustained dialogue among all the parties, under the auspices of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU). In this context, we hope for the early convening of the national reconciliation conference in accordance with the Declaration of last March by the leaders of Somalia. The entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea next month represents the culmination of efforts begun over two decades ago to create a new order for the oceans. The Convention, which Indonesia ratified in 1985, will make a significant contribution in promoting the peaceful uses of the seas and in ensuring their equitable utilization. I do agree with the report of the Secretary-General entitled 'An Agenda for Development' (A/48/935) when it cites the economy as being the engine of progress and of development as a whole. If I may carry the metaphor a little further, it may be appropriate to say that at present the world economy is a flawed engine that has stalled but is beginning to warm up again. It is flawed by the imbalances and inequities that have distorted one of its most important parts, the relationship between the developed and the developing economies. It has broken down in a long and devastating recession, but in recent times it has shown signs of recovery. However, the aggregate statistics of world economic growth often conceal as much as they reveal. As aptly put by the 1994 World Economic and Social Survey, the world economy remains a complex mosaic of sharp contrasts, in which most developing countries are often too weak and too vulnerable to be able to compete successfully in the world market, thus risking their further marginalization and decline into extreme poverty. Hence, apart from the need to sustain non-inflationary, global economic growth, the urgent imperative continues to be the eradication of poverty and the acceleration of the socio-economic development of the developing countries on a sustained and sustainable basis. If the engine for global progress and development is to carry mankind to a brighter future in the next century, then its parts must be brought into a more balanced, synergistic relationship and its functioning be made more effective and efficient. We have no alternative but to forge a new partnership for development involving all nations, developed and developing. It is therefore crucial that we bring to full realization General Assembly resolution 48/165 on the 'Renewal of the dialogue on strengthening international economic cooperation for development through partnership'. By adopting this resolution, the international community has acknowledged the indispensability of the principles of genuine interdependence, of mutual interest and benefit, and of equitably shared responsibility, in a new spirit of global partnership. As a necessary corollary to this North-South partnership, South-South cooperation has become even more compelling, for the developing countries are called upon to shoulder an increasing share of the responsibility for world growth and development. We look forward to the report of the Secretary-General on this issue and also to the deliberations leading to the adoption of 'An Agenda for Development'. As many advocated during the World Hearings on Development in June this year, as well as at the High- Level Segment Meeting of the Economic and Social Council, the Agenda should be action-oriented and should present an overall policy and priority framework for a balanced and comprehensive approach to development. It should reflect universal recognition and acceptance of the United Nations as the only Organization capable of dealing with issues of development as well as with issues of peace and security. It will also be necessary for the agencies, bodies and programmes of the United Nations to be organized in such a way as to enable them to implement the Agenda in an effective, efficient and coordinated manner, without necessarily creating a new body for this purpose. Obviously, there will be the need to generate the required political will in support of the Agenda. We look forward to seeing 'An Agenda for Development' serve as a fitting complement to 'An Agenda for Peace'. One of the most important recent developments in the international economic sphere is the completion of the Uruguay Round with the signing of its Final Act in Marrakesh and the agreement to establish the World Trade Organization (WTO). Indonesia and the other developing countries have accepted the Uruguay Round package, in spite of the heavy obligations and challenges that it entails, because they anticipate that considerable opportunities for increased market access and indeed for 22 world economic growth and prosperity will now be forthcoming. They also expect that the Uruguay Round package will provide the long-sought assurance of a rule-based and non-discriminatory multilateral trading system, free from the arbitrariness of unilateral action. Yet, we must confess to being concerned at the possibility of a tardy and long-drawn-out process of implementing the Final Act. Such an eventuality will negate much of its original intent and rob it of its positive impact, as was, regrettably, the experience with the Tokyo Round. Furthermore, the attempts to overload the WTO work programme with social clauses in our view represent protectionism in a thin guise and tend to nullify the few remaining comparative advantages of developing countries. For this reason we feel strongly that the process of ratification and implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements should not be linked to new issues that have little or no relevance to the development of a new international trading regime. All nations are called upon to marshal their political will and to accept inevitable shifts in comparative advantage without transferring the burden of adjustment to weaker economies. Had relationships between developed and developing countries been more equitable, we would not today be faced with the problem of developing countries staggering under their external debt burden. While aggregate debt indicators have undoubtedly improved, mainly in response to various debt-relief measures, the external debt crisis still persists especially in the least developed countries where debt ratios have significantly worsened and continue to hamper the prospects for economic growth and development. A durable solution to the perennial debt question can only be secured through a development-oriented strategy formulated within the framework of shared responsibility and genuine partnership. Thus, rather than taking a one-sided view of the causes of external debt, there is an urgent need for all sides involved to adopt a coordinated approach. As Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement, Indonesia has given the highest priority to resolving this crisis. President Soeharto took the initiative of conveying a memorandum on the debt of developing countries to the Chairman of the Group of Seven on the eve of their Tokyo Summit last year, inviting the G-7 to engage in dialogue on this issue. We are encouraged that the G-7 responded positively to the Non-Aligned Movement on this issue in Tokyo and then again last July in Naples, where, inter alia, it urged the Paris Club to pursue its efforts to improve the debt treatment of the poorest and most indebted countries and, where appropriate, to reduce the stock of debt as well as to increase concessionality for those countries facing special difficulties. Moreover, Indonesia has also recently hosted a ministerial meeting of non-aligned countries on debt and development, involving the most heavily indebted least developed countries. The meeting called upon the international community, particularly donors and international financial institutions, inter alia, to adopt a common set of principles for future debt negotiations, which include a once-and-for-all arrangement for settling all outstanding debts, and the application of debt reduction to all categories of debt, including multilateral debts. A report of the meeting has been submitted to the Secretary-General for possible consideration at this session of the General Assembly. As a firm believer in the rights of peoples to development, including social development, Indonesia is deeply committed to participating actively in the World Summit for Social Development. The World Conference on Women in 1995 equally deserves total support from the international community. Indonesia is committed to the adoption of a conference declaration calling for de facto as well as de jure equality between men and women, the integration of gender concerns into sustainable development, and a programme of action to achieve those goals. As we prepare ourselves to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization next year, I sense that despite the frustration of our hopes after the end of the cold war, we are about to open a window on a future that truly does not belong to the nations of the North or the South, the West or the East, but to undivided humanity. Perhaps the advent of wisdom is always a gradual process. First we came to the realization that the human race could not survive in a state of cold war against itself; that our problems are global and systemic in nature, and thus that truly effective solutions to these problems should be integral and so comprehensive they must be carried out by a global partnership. Without that partnership, we should now realize, our bright hopes are unattainable. As we work to complete 'An Agenda for Development' so as to match it with 'An Agenda for Peace', we are actually etching the fine details of our common vision of a better and more unified world. It is said that the future belongs to those who have a clear vision of it. That may be so, but only if we are faithful to that vision, persevere in its pursuit, and thereby prove ourselves worthy of it. Please allow me to congratulate you, Sir, and Côte d’Ivoire on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Our deliberations under your presidency are certain to be a success. May I also take this occasion to thank His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally, the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Guyana, for his many contributions as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. The economic and political changes currently under way have raised the hopes of all of us for a better future. Democracy has been restored to much of the world, thus not only showing that it is the most suitable model of government, but also making possible a greater degree of international cooperation, strengthening the rule of international law and giving the United Nations a more powerful role. In Eastern Europe, the process of democratic change is now irreversible. Though much is made of the dangers of new ethnic conflicts and the rise of new ultra-nationalistic and totalitarian forces, they become ever less likely to succeed with each day that passes. Have we not seen two of the most apparently intractable problems - the Middle East and South Africa - brought to a peaceful conclusion? The Middle East was a crucible of conflict; apartheid in South Africa was a disgrace to the entire human race. Mr. de Klerk and Mr. Mandela showed both political wisdom and human tolerance in agreeing on a transition for the Republic of South Africa. South Africa will play a major role in future developments in the African continent. Those are just some causes for optimism. But optimism does not mean expecting that all our crises will simply resolve themselves without any action on our part. If our collective hopes and desires are to lead anywhere, then the work must begin here at the United Nations, where representatives from the entire world are gathered. The time has come when we can make this world a better place to live. Never in the history of the world has the awareness of the global nature of the basic issues been as strong as it is today. Never has the desire for cooperation between nations so clearly superseded the wish for the domination of one nation by another. And never has man had so much knowledge and technology at his fingertips as he has today. All of these factors are predispositions for a greater role for the United Nations, and we must do everything to ensure that the mechanisms of the United Nations work more effectively. We support the efforts for the reconstruction of the Security Council. The Security Council ought to enhance both its effectiveness and its efficiency, as well as its representational capacity. A measured, realistic expansion of the composition of the Council would be appropriate. Furthermore, Slovenia supports the proposal that Germany and Japan become permanent members of the Council. An additional task in this regard relates to the need to enhance the transparency of the work of the Security 11 Council. The system of consultations should be developed further, so as to provide an adequate opportunity for the participation of United Nations Member States interested in various situations dealt with by the Security Council. The General Assembly could also make a greater contribution to the development of adequate approaches on the part of the Security Council, as well as to less costly and more effective methods of preventive diplomacy, and at the same time decrease the need for the Security Council to intervene in armed conflicts. Furthermore, in recent years the General Assembly has taken an important step in this direction through the establishment of the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights. Last, but not least, it is important to do as much as possible to strengthen the United Nations financially, even though the finance ministers in each and every Member country find that their contributions to the United Nations are a significant component of their State budget. Slovenia is committed to the principle that contributions to the United Nations must be paid in full and on time. The regular payment of contributions is an essential part of all efforts aimed at the financial reform of the United Nations. The Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro and the recent Conference on Population and Development have brought this Organization into the public consciousness in a new way; they have shown that we are conscious of some of the most fundamental problems that face all of us, not just Governments, but the people. Though some may be sceptical about the results of these Conferences, my feeling is that they have contributed significantly towards a global consensus and have involved a whole new constituency in our work. The maintenance of international peace and security is enshrined in the United Nations Charter as the main purpose of the Organization. I believe that one of the most important questions to be dealt with is dealing with the provision of armed forces acting within the framework of United Nations operations. The variety and complexity of United Nations military and related activities have developed far beyond what was once defined as 'peace-keeping'. Careful reflection is needed on future directions to be taken. Slovenia welcomes the Secretary- General’s current efforts to develop a system of stand-by forces and is ready to participate in these efforts. The maintenance of international peace and security must be strengthened by effective measures in the field of disarmament. Slovenia is, like most other States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, convinced of the need for indefinite extension of that Treaty. Furthermore we are convinced of the need for enhanced security guarantees, in particular negative security guarantees. We also support the efforts to achieve a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing and other disarmament measures with respect to weapons of mass destruction. With respect to conventional weapons, we support the United States initiative for the conclusion of an agreement to reduce the number and availability of anti-personnel land-mines. In short, the issues of disarmament ought to remain high among the priorities of the United Nations agenda. The protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is another of the highest priorities of the United Nations. For the Republic of Slovenia, it represents both a basic domestic task and a strong international commitment. Slovenia actively participated in the World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna in 1993, and in the subsequent efforts leading to the appointment of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. By the same token, we support the efforts for further development of the United Nations system in the field of human rights. We are ready to contribute to the work of the Working Group of the Third Committee in its search for the appropriate methods of protection of human rights. Here again we believe that prevention is better than cure, and that appropriate international action is necessary in order to prevent situations characterized by violations of human rights. The United Nations is confronted with a variety of situations involving the use of force. The armed conflicts in the Balkans are among the most difficult situations. Slovenia is the only successor State of the now-disintegrated former Yugoslavia which is not directly threatened by the ongoing conflict in that region. None the less, Slovenia remains vitally interested in the stability of the Balkans. The horrors of war against ordinary citizens, mass violations of human rights and breaches of the United Nations Charter first in the Republic of Croatia and now in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina cause serious concern to the entire international community. I will not be telling Members anything new when I say that the international community was not prepared for 12 the eruption of the crisis that occurred within the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, the conflict that was subsequently to occur within Bosnia and Herzegovina has seriously damaged the image and credibility of the United Nations. It is true that without the involvement of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), working in conjunction with many humanitarian organizations, the tragedy in Bosnia would have been even worse. But humanitarian assistance alone cannot be considered as a substitute for effective policy. Such achievements as the Washington Agreement, concluded between the Bosnian Muslims and Croats, do at least raise some hope that appropriate international assistance can meaningfully influence the political aspects of the conflict. Nevertheless, the continuation of the militant behaviour by the Bosnian Serbs maintains the need for the option of lifting of the arms embargo against the legitimate Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to remain on the agenda. This war, with all its consequences, is threatening to continue into a third winter, and I am afraid that this certainly most risky and negative of options will be the only one left if the international community does not prove able to bring about an end to hostilities and open the way towards a viable peace with the necessary elements of justice. I would like to end this sad chapter of my address with a warning. We should by no means forget that the terrifying pattern of 'ethnic cleansing' has been patented in the conflicts that have occurred across the territories of several successor States of the former Yugoslavia. Regardless of the final outcome of these conflicts in the Balkans, we must seriously consider all the means and methods at our disposal that may prevent a repetition of this pattern of events occurring in other parts of the world. I speak for a country which has the good fortune not to be a problem, but a country which seeks solutions. In the less than two years in which our independence was internationally recognized, we have, under difficult circumstances, achieved positive economic growth. We have managed to maintain a high level of social security and stability. The transformation and reform of our economy has gone hand-in-hand with the rapid growth of our democratic institutions. We are paying special attention to the protection of human rights and of our ethnic minorities. Slovenia is a member of the Council of Europe; we have signed the Partnership for Peace and the Pact of Stability; Slovenia is a factor of stability in Europe and strives to be an active part of Europe’s integration. I do not wish to imply that there are no obstacles to the progress of that integration. Europe may have high levels of prosperity and deeply rooted democracies and it may be one of the most stable regions in the world, but the ghosts of the past and leanings towards near-forgotten forms of nationalistic chauvinism are still with us. These are in direct contradiction to the very idea of a cooperative and multicultural Europe; they endanger the processes of integration. Unexplained and unjustifiable impediments have already been raised against Slovenia’s association with the European Union. In closing, allow me to express Slovenia’s great satisfaction that our proposal that the moral and ethical aspects of social developments be considered at the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen next year has been widely accepted. We are particularly glad that Slovenia will have the honour to host the United Nations seminar on the ethical and spiritual dimensions of social progress and development, an event to which we attach great importance. If one thing is certain, it is that economic, scientific and technological views on development do not exist in a vacuum. The United Nations Charter calls for the fostering of the prosperity, harmony and freedom of people both as individuals and as cultural entities. This ultimate objective should be borne in mind in all the United Nations endeavours. It is my hope that under your leadership, the Assembly will take positive steps in that direction. Permit me, Sir, to extend to you the congratulations of my country and of my delegation on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. You bring with you to the office of the presidency experience which is both wide and varied. Added to this is your well-known commitment to the ideals and principles that govern this Organization. These qualities together serve to provide us with every confidence that under your distinguished guidance our deliberations cannot but be productive in the furtherance of the objectives of this world body. I want also to take this opportunity to applaud Ambassador Insanally of Guyana for the distinguished manner in which he led the Assembly during its forty- eighth session. As the international community gathers once again to bring its collective wisdom to bear on solutions for dealing with problems which continue to threaten the welfare of the world and its people, we cannot but, with 7 a sense of mixed emotions, reflect on what we as a body have been able to accomplish to date. Those emotions range from the satisfaction experienced at the success of our collective efforts to bring about a climate of coexistence and harmony in South Africa and the Middle East - with the prospects now provided for human advancement in those regions - to the sense of deep regret that, even as we record such major successes, the suffering and the waste of human life caused by territorial conflict and the injustice of decisions based on ethnic considerations continue to place serious obstacles in the path of universal progress. My delegation salutes both President Mandela and Vice President de Klerk for their courage and determination in working together to consolidate their strong beginnings in the direction of a multiracial democracy. My delegation will continue to support the international community in its efforts to assist the millions of deprived South Africans attain a better quality of life. However, my delegation is still deeply concerned about some other countries in Africa, which continue to wage a hopeless battle against poverty, disease, debt settlement and political strife. It is important that more attention be given to the economic welfare of Africa to prevent other unfortunate massacres similar to those witnessed in Rwanda and Somalia. In keeping with the spirit of universality that prevails today, Saint Lucia had hoped that the question of full membership of the United Nations for the Republic of China on Taiwan would be favourably considered as a supplementary item on the agenda. Saint Lucia continues to lend its support to the Republic of China on Taiwan in its efforts to achieve full membership of the United Nations, and urges the inclusion of this item on the agenda of the fiftieth session. It is indeed anomalous that a country already making a valuable contribution on the international stage should continue to find itself debarred from participation in the family of nations. Saint Lucia is heartened by the progress towards peace in the Middle East that has been achieved between Israel and Palestine and between Israel and Jordan. However, my delegation notes with some concern the renewed potential for conflict between Iraq and Kuwait, and again calls upon the Government of Iraq to recognize and respect the territorial integrity of the State of Kuwait. The devastating conflict in the former Yugoslavia, which the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has lamented has spared no one in its violence, remains, like several other conflicts around the world, a major focus of peace-keeping and humanitarian efforts by the United Nations. These conflicts not only challenge the capacity of the United Nations to deal with those problems in a way that would lead to their resolution, but also engender new and frightening dimensions of human suffering, resulting from the large-scale displacement of populations and the concomitant disabilities to which they become exposed. The net effect of such calamities goes beyond the urgent call for a global response, in that it creates new stresses in the developing world, through the diversion of scarce resources away from peaceful development, into attenuating human suffering. My delegation therefore wholeheartedly supports efforts by the Secretary-General to foster greater regional involvement in conflict-resolution and in the creation of appropriate humanitarian support structures. With rising unemployment, poverty and drug abuse, our societies face an almost insurmountable challenge which threatens the ability of our youth to achieve their true potential. The response to this mounting threat resides in a universal blueprint aimed at reversing the economic and social ills from which it springs. In this regard my delegation supports the Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development. The International Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo this year, was a powerful initiative, however contentious some of the issues may have been. The forthcoming World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen and the World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing, offer prospects of great promise in identifying new approaches to the attainment of productive employment and the release of innate capacities as well as the empowerment and participation of all sectors of the population in the alleviation of their conditions. My country will participate in and support those processes. Saint Lucia is of the view that the issues leading to the isolation of Cuba from the mainstream of economic and social development within our hemisphere are overdue for re-examination. My delegation calls for the speedy removal of all impediments to Cuba’s ability to participate within the commonwealth of nations in the manner permitted by the Charter of the United Nations. 8 The recently concluded agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Cuba on immigration is timely and welcome. My delegation expresses the hope that this agreement will open new vistas for further dialogue and greater understanding between the two countries. Like other countries of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), Saint Lucia shares the vision of hope for Haiti. We are proud to be a participant in the United Nations Mission in Haiti, as we have participated in former means of assistance to Haiti, and, along with our CARICOM counterparts, assisted by the wider international community, will work tirelessly for the successful implantation of true democracy in Haiti. The unfolding events of the past few days give added impetus to the efforts of the regional and international community to bring Haiti towards self-fulfilment within the community of democratic nations. It has been made clear that the holding of democratic elections and the installation of a legitimate Government cannot by themselves guarantee democracy, especially in a country devoid of democratic traditions. To sustain such democratic beginnings, appropriate structures must be put in place, adequately resourced in both human and material terms, and suitable support mechanisms must be designed and firmly rooted. Above all, there must be the international will to encourage, facilitate and enrich this democratic process, as would be exemplified through massive development assistance over a sustained period. The global economic situation is at present at a critical crossroads, reflecting a speedily moving trend towards trade liberalization and the need for national economies to improve their own efficiency and competitiveness. The constraints of smallness have continually conspired against States like Saint Lucia in terms of its ability meaningfully to raise its gross domestic product. While the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and its successor organization the World Trade Organization, seem to offer medium- and long-term benefits at least to some developed countries, there remains a nagging concern among developing countries that certain barriers may still remain, or be created, that would effectively militate against the products of developing countries entering the markets of developed countries. My delegation joins with the rest of the developing world in calling upon the developed world, and the major international institutions, to re-examine their policies and emphases, with a view to adopting measures that can realistically assist small developing economies in their attempts to keep pace with the dictates of contemporary economic trends. Of particular concern must be the consequences of these new developments for small island States such as ours, whose exposed economies make them vulnerable and sensitive to changes that take place elsewhere. Saint Lucia’s economy, for instance, has already experienced the shock resulting from changes brought about by the advent of the European Union. Saint Lucia’s economy is highly dependent on its export of bananas to the European Union and despite new arrangements put in place to provide limited access guarantees for fruit from African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP) - and Saint Lucia expresses its appreciation to those European States that have been instrumental in securing these arrangements - the industry in Saint Lucia has experienced a devastating downturn in prices, which in turn has been directly responsible for the economic disruption, and its allied social instability, that occurred during the latter part of 1993 and this year, 1994. It is to be regretted that even the limited concessions provided by Europe in discharge of its treaty obligations, have been subjected to a withering attack by forces which seem fully prepared to see the economies of small island States, already possessing so little room for flexibility, placed in total jeopardy. That is the experience that urges this delegation again to call the attention of the international community to the special circumstances of small island developing States and the need for particular measures to deal with their peculiar circumstances. The Government of Saint Lucia has been observing with some concern the development of the North American Free Trade Association (NAFTA), given the serious adverse consequences it will have in the medium term and long term for relatively nascent industries and the micro-economies of our small States. My Government regrets that United States legislation on NAFTA contains no expressed arrangement which takes into account the limits of our industrial base. Consequently, the fragility of our economies will only worsen, resulting in economic and social discontent. In this regard we appeal to the international community for special trade considerations while 9 adjustments are made to meet the international challenges that the world economic environment engenders. The countries of the Caribbean Community, cognizant of the rapidly changing economic environment, and the urgent need for cooperative effort to adjust, and in some cases, survive the challenges ensuing from this change, have undertaken measures to deepen their relations with their Caribbean neighbours by formally creating the Association of Caribbean States (ACS), membership of which encompasses all countries washed by the Caribbean Sea. We hope the international community will be helpful in encouraging this self-help initiative to achieve its full potential. Last year, at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, the issue of sustainable development was accepted as a major component to be included in the development agendas of countries the world over. Arising out of the universal blueprint emerging from that Conference is the recognition, at last, of the peculiar circumstances of small island developing States in their pursuit of sustainable development. Designing development policies and implementing programmes for small island States such as Saint Lucia require considerable imagination and ingenuity, as was shown by the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in Barbados earlier this year. A successful follow-up to that Conference would rely heavily on financial resources for the implementation of its findings. My delegation calls upon the international community to provide active support to the United Nations Development Programme, which has been charged with the responsibility for the coordination and implementation of the programme of action. Our small island State, Saint Lucia, seems to oscillate between triumph and disaster. Last year we highlighted our triumphs in the recognition of our two Nobel laureates. This year the disastrous hand of nature in the form of tropical storm 'Debbie' struck Saint Lucia, dramatically emphasizing the vulnerability of small island developing States. Over an 11-hour period, this small 660-square- kilometre territory, historically dependent on agriculture, mainly bananas, tourism and small-scale manufacturing, was battered by nearly 15 inches of rain, resulting in four deaths by drowning, numerous landslides, and massive flooding that destroyed bridges, roads, houses, and 60 per cent of the banana crop. Even our international airport lay buried temporarily beneath two feet of water and mud. With over 50 per cent of the working population of Saint Lucia engaged in banana-associated enterprises, and with more than 50 per cent of export earnings derived from banana exports, destruction of 60 per cent of the banana crop cannot but create serious economic and social consequences for us. This again underscores the vulnerability of small States like ours, and the need for the international community to recognize their special peculiarities and needs and to make appropriate provisions to facilitate their survival. Permit me, on behalf of my Prime Minister, and the Government and people of Saint Lucia, to express profound thanks and appreciation to the several members and agencies of our Organization for their expressions of sympathy, concern and support, and, in several cases, offers or tangible manifestations of assistance in our time of need. As we focus on the milestone of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and its Charter, we should perceive the ideas that subtend this body as a cementing balm that would bring the disparate pieces of our shattered globe together in peace, harmony, creativity and beauty. The United Nations has over the years been party to the achievement of many political strides towards democratization and unprecedented levels of cooperation between nation States. The global situation that necessitated the creation of the United Nations has undergone tremendous changes over the last 50 years. Our membership has more than doubled, and, as we continue to witness the emergence of new States, social and economic demands increase, coupled with new, pressing concerns, such as the environment, women’s rights, children’s rights and good governance, to name a few. My delegation supports the demand for enhancing the resources of the United Nations to enable it to cope with its expanded responsibilities. It is also necessary that this Assembly be made more effective and efficient in the execution of its functions, so that it can become more responsive to the needs particularly of developing countries, and can assist those countries in their development processes. Saint Lucia joins scores of other delegates in calling for an increase in the membership of the Security Council to reflect the increase in membership of this Organization 10 and the concept of universality that the Charter advocates. It is also necessary that the Security Council allow for more consultation with the General Assembly in its deliberations so that its perspectives may become even more reflective of the world community. In his Nobel Prize acceptance speech in 1993, entitled 'The Antilles, Fragments of an Epic Memory,' Saint Lucia’s Poet Laureate, Derek Walcott, said: 'Break a vase and the love that reassembles the fragments is stronger than that love which took its symmetry for granted when it was whole.' We see in this idea the touchstone for the United Nations and the international community as this Organization approaches its anniversary year. We can extend this perception to embrace the cracked vases of our globe, in which the horrors of Somalia, the demoralization and brutality of Haiti, the carnage of the Anglo-Irish conflict and the racial bigotry in other parts of the world are all seen as products of the accident of history and the poverty of the human spirit. It is hoped that through the efforts of the United Nations a renewed humanitarianism will be engendered and bound with a strength that guarantees peace and the well-being of the world and its people. I should like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to occupy the presidential chair of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations on behalf of Africa. Despite the great difficulties we are experiencing today, we can see encouraging signs for the future. The great progress made during the preparatory work for the World Summit for Social Development and the World Conference on Women gives rise to new hope for the creation of a new international order. Our countries and our Organization face new challenges that require creative and innovative responses if we are to make progress and avoid the danger of reversing the headway that has been made since the end of the cold war. When I began my term of office in 1990, I faced the enormous task of rescuing my country from war and restoring faith in democracy to thousands of Nicaraguans. I had a great dream: that we the peoples that had been able to free ourselves from dictatorships of one kind or another could unite and help one another, reconstructing democracy in our countries, and that all of us together could then begin a great march away from totalitarian and authoritarian forms of government towards democracy. In July my dream became reality when the Second International Conference of New or Restored Democracies was held in Managua, with participants, observers, special guests and international organizations from more than 70 countries from four continents. In the Managua declaration, representatives to this Second International Conference expressed their conviction that democracy is the only system that allows for a free, firm and steadfast union of nations for peace. We also agreed that the consolidation of democratic processes was a key factor in guaranteeing peace and international security. The Managua declaration clearly establishes the essential ties between democracy and social and economic development, and between democracy and citizen participation. It should also be stressed that the Managua Declaration states the following: that the future of the new and restored democracies as well as the future of peace are linked to the international community’s response to such matters as external debt, protectionism in developed countries, insufficient concessional funds available for development, poverty, and the impact on low-income groups of economic adjustment processes. The plan of action approved by the Conference promotes modalities for cooperation that take into account the particular features of the new or restored democracies and the promotion of internal commitments in each country to strengthen democracy. In Nicaragua we have already created a permanent forum for democracy and peace in which wide sectors of the civilian population participate. On behalf of the new or restored democracies, I would like to take this opportunity to make a request of the United Nations Secretary-General that, in accordance with the established procedures and during this session of the General Assembly, a decision be taken to undertake a study on the ways in which the United Nations could support the efforts of Governments to consolidate new or restored democracies. I would like to appeal to the countries represented here to give special attention to the difficulties we are now facing during this fragile transition process, as we are attempting to consolidate democracy; we appeal to them to support our efforts and the commitments made in our plan of action. We cannot allow our dreams and the great sacrifices and suffering of millions of people who struggled for liberty to be in vain. 9 It is with great sadness that we see the gap between rich and poor countries dangerously increasingly rather than diminishing. According to the United Nations report on human development, more than one billion people in the world are still languishing in abject poverty. In 1960, the richest 20 per cent of the world’s population had an income 30 times greater than that of the poorest 20 per cent. By 1990, the gap had deepened: by then the richest 20 per cent had incomes 60 times greater and 20 per cent of humanity receives 80 per cent of the world’s income. As pointed out in this year’s report on human development, in places where world trade is entirely free and open, those benefiting are in general the strongest. Developing countries enter the market as unequal partners and end up with unequal rewards. A large percentage of the new or restored democracies are to be found among the poorest countries. As a consequence, they are excluded from the benefits of development. We must all work together to change this situation. Today Central America is one of the best examples of the new wave of democracy. Democracy is now established is all of our countries. In less than a year, we have had four free elections in our region that produced new Governments. Respect for civil and political rights has been strengthened; conditions which enable more people to enjoy economic, social and cultural rights have been created and civil power is prevailing over military power. Respect for and protection of human rights is increasing. We are gradually becoming a region of peace, liberty, democracy and development. Next October, the Central American countries will sign the Alliance for Sustainable Development. This Alliance is a major effort at the political, social, economic and environmental levels to create a new and improved development model which can preserve the resources and way of life of future generations in Central America. Once again, I would like to thank organizations and countries that have provided continuous and valuable support to Nicaragua and Central America. They have made resources available, and have helped find new and efficient solutions for establishing and consolidating peace while achieving sustainable human development. We are certain that this spirit of cooperation will be manifested once again at the International Conference on Peace and Development in Central America, to be held in Honduras. Last year, before the General Assembly, I made a detailed presentation on the political and economic situation of my country, and about our real prospects. My country has made great efforts to attain a macroeconomic balance and at the same time establish a firm foundation for sustainable development. We have made substantial progress in the last four years in improving public finance. We have significantly reduced inflation, re-established relations with foreign- debt holders and multilateral agencies, and implemented structural adjustment reforms. The success of this difficult programme and the attainment of sustainable development will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to promote production and investment, to increase employment and improve the quality of life for our people, and on the quality of the international support we receive. In order to consolidate and deepen the democratic process in Nicaragua, this September I approved the law on military organization. This new law clearly establishes that the armed forces are subordinate to civil power. The armed forces have now been transformed into a small, non-partisan, efficient body, appropriate to the transition period in Nicaraguan society. In compliance with the General Assembly resolution declaring the celebration of this year as the International Year of the Family, we have established a national commission to coordinate the efforts of different government and social agencies to support the family as the main nucleus of society and the main agent for the transmission and development of values such as the common good, equality and mutual respect. Within the framework of the strengthening of the family, I wish to reiterate once again our commitment to giving the highest priority to the protection and development of children. We made this commitment at the World Summit for Children in September 1990. Also, taking into account our commitment to respect for, and to the observance of, human rights, my Government will create an office of ombudsman in Nicaragua. As we approach the next millennium, humanity still faces critical questions that threaten our societies and our development. We cannot, however, deny that substantial 10 advances are being made to remove the main sources of conflict that linger in various continents. For this reason we welcome with great satisfaction the signing of the agreements concluded between the Governments of Israel and of Jordan and between Israel and Palestine. This will help to improve security and stability in the Middle East. At the same time, we welcome the efforts being made to reach a lasting peace in Northern Ireland. Nicaragua rejoices greatly in the inauguration of the new democratic and non-racist Government in South Africa. This augurs well for a new era of prosperity and peace for the whole population of that brotherly country and for southern Africa. We support the strengthening of democracy in Mozambique. Thus Nicaraguans will participate in the United Nations mission to observe next October’s elections. It is still necessary to promote new international initiatives in the search for a definitive political solution to the situation in the former Yugoslavia and to the sad events in Rwanda that continue so to shake the world’s conscience. This requires wider and stronger mechanisms for humanitarian protection, as well as for regional security. I should like to make special mention of the crisis in Haiti. Nicaragua welcomes with satisfaction the diplomatic way out and the negotiated solution to the Haitian crisis. All available peaceful means should be used to guarantee reconciliation among the long-suffering people of Haiti, as well as and the re-establishment of constitutional order. Finally, we believe that, within the new international order, it is necessary for the United Nations to recognize the rights of the Republic of China in Taiwan, within the framework of universal participation and respect for human rights. I feel sure that the future will not conceal from us the great difficulties that humanity still faces. We must work together, with what we have at hand, to make this world a more dignified place for all of us, regardless of race, creed or political belief, to live in. Next year we shall celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. We hope that the Security Council, at its summit meeting of Heads of State to be held in New York on that occasion, will adopt some important decisions, particularly with regard to restructuring of the Security Council to provide for equitable geographical representation and an increase in the number of members. I wish, on behalf of the people of Nicaragua and on behalf of the new or restored democracies that participated in the conference in Managua, to reaffirm our deep commitment to contributing to the development of a world society inspired by progress, liberty, democracy and peace. On behalf of my delegation and Government and the people of Papua New Guinea I join previous speakers in warmly congratulating Ambassador Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire on his election as the President of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. My delegation is confident that he will maintain the high standards set by his predecessors and lead us skilfully through our important deliberations. I pledge my delegation’s cooperation in the discharge of the responsibilities of his high office. At the same time as we welcome Ambassador Essy, my delegation would also like to pay tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, who skilfully guided the work of the forty-eighth session. As consistent opponents of the vile doctrine of apartheid and the unjust political system on which it was based, the people and Government of Papua New Guinea take particular pleasure in welcoming the readmission of a new and democratic South Africa to the United Nations. We look forward to strengthening our relations with the Government and people of South Africa in a bilateral as well as a multilateral setting. 27 With the end of the cold war, we are in a challenging period. Our collective resolve should be for the good of humanity. That calls for increased multilateral diplomacy, especially of the nature espoused in the United Nations Charter. To that end, my Government values regional cooperation and believes that such efforts would enhance the basis for regional stability and international development cooperation. Papua New Guinea values its membership of the South Pacific Forum and the Melanesian Spearhead Group, just as it enjoys its association with the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) as a special observer. These regional organizations have forged mutual cooperation between member countries as well as enhancing the atmosphere for international cooperation. Such cooperation was evident during the recent South Pacific Forum session held in Brisbane, Australia, where six countries - namely Australia, Fiji, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands and Vanuatu - were able to agree to work together towards a common approach on logging and the export of timber. That positive development in a regional context is of definite value to ongoing global endeavours for the environment and sustainable development. We believe that an increasing number of issues are of global importance and must be addressed on a global basis. In this regard, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in Barbados, and the recent World Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, as well as the forthcoming World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen and the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing next year, suggest that these issues are extremely important and need concerted international efforts. While there is emerging consensus on these issues, there seems to be a lack of commitment to providing the necessary resources to achieve those objectives. Is it worth the time and effort expended in adopting visionary resolutions and declarations when the required resources are not there to fulfil the programmes and objectives of these world conferences? In that regard my delegation is particularly anxious to see international support for the Barbados Programme of Action on Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. The United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation focuses on the particular need of developing countries in their efforts to maximize the participation of all their citizens in activities aimed at sustainable development and an effective management of resources. In this regard I welcome the Secretary-General’s interim report on this initiative, to be issued under item 92 (j) of the agenda of the forty-ninth session. My Government looks forward to the final report by the panel of distinguished experts, to be issued to coincide with the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. It is clear that these issues and others require both a national and a collective international approach, particularly those relating to environmental and climatic changes which transcend national boundaries. Agenda 21, adopted at the Rio Earth Summit, provides a good basis for international cooperation and action. Consistent with the emerging international consensus on major global issues, my Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Sir Julius Chan, has emphasized the need for a global view to be taken of these concerns and for our Government to take effective action nationally as well as regionally in pursuance of our foreign policy. In taking a global view we must not allow vague generalities to substitute for practical action. Each of us must contribute to resolving global problems where we can be most effective. We must follow the thrust of recommendations contained in the Secretary-General’s 'Agenda for Peace' and an 'Agenda for Development' prepared for our guidance, and we must pursue those goals, starting at home and in our respective regions. As far as Papua New Guinea’s foreign relations are concerned, we are giving renewed attention to the need to work the Pacific in a practical way. In doing so, we are not turning away from mutually beneficial ties that have developed over the years with countries and regional organizations such as ASEAN, but are trying to consolidate and to continue diversifying our foreign relations in a wider context. We remain just as emphatically committed to maintaining - and where possible strengthening - Papua New Guinea’s long-standing links with other countries in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe and elsewhere. 28 Even as we focus renewed attention on certain countries and objectives, our basic approach to the development of Papua New Guinea’s foreign relations remains one of active and selective engagement. Our specific objectives, including our efforts to work the Pacific, will be viewed, and pursued, in a global perspective. Despite the uncertainties that have arisen and the terrible conflicts that have erupted in various regions, the end of the cold war has, we believe, enabled Members of the United Nations to reconsider security on a comprehensive basis. My Government therefore commends the attention that reports of the Secretary-General and the United Nations Development Programme have given to non-military threats, to security in the widest sense, and to measures to reduce threats to security by other - and more than military - means. In a very real, and particular, sense the end of the cold war enables the United Nations to return to its roots. We are faced with a historic opportunity to pursue, debate and take actions on issues of human welfare that are central to the purposes of the United Nations. Eighty-five per cent of the people in my country live in rural communities where the basic needs of food and shelter are secured on a sustainable basis. However, despite the sustainable livelihood of our people, natural disasters can occur, as happened when unexpectedly high floods destroyed houses, damaged crops and disrupted services in much of my home province, Gulf, early this year. In the past 12 months, various parts of Papua New Guinea have been afflicted by natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, landslides and volcanic activities, which have placed a severe burden on our resources. The sudden volcanic eruptions that caused more than 60,000 people to be evacuated from the town of Rabaul and surrounding areas of East New Britain Province more than one week ago have considerably taxed our resources. The volcanic activity is still continuing. We appreciate the promptness with which various Governments, particularly those in our region, including Australia, New Zealand and the United States of America, continue to respond when natural disasters occur in small island countries of the region, including my own country. I take this opportunity to register my Government’s appreciation for the positive responses we have received from various Governments, international organizations and non-governmental organizations. We have yet to establish the extent of the damage to property, crops and food gardens due to the continuing volcanic activity. In this regard, my Government would appreciate international assistance in its restoration and rehabilitation programmes in due course. Regarding the collective international commitment we all undertook at Rio de Janeiro, my Government is in the process of instituting a national sustainable- development strategy. On a subregional level, we have issued a joint declaration on cooperation in the development of natural resources with our fellow members of the Melanesian Spearhead Group, the Solomon Islands and Vanuatu. Among other things, it provides a framework for exchanges of information on foreign countries that exploit and harvest our natural resources in unsustainable ways and engage in transfer pricing and illegal operations. We are party to agreements reached at the Brisbane meeting of the South Pacific Forum to cooperate on a wider basis in order to ensure the sustainable development of fisheries and forestry resources. We believe development must be equitable if it is to be sustained. The ongoing failure to reduce environmental pollution in advanced industrial countries undermines the global commitments made at Rio de Janeiro. The people and the Government of Papua New Guinea are especially sensitive about the need for balance between equity and development. We are continuing to experience the sad consequences that arose from the lack of proper balance among the immediate needs of people, the environment and development in the area around the Panguna copper mine, in our province of Bougainville. Allow me to touch on an area of serious concern to my delegation and my Government. This relates to allegations of human rights violations on the island in Bougainville Province of Papua New Guinea. The allegations of human rights violations have been unduly orchestrated through the Human Rights Commission in Geneva. This, I wish to assure the Assembly, is an ill- conceived attempt to discredit the Government and the people of Papua New Guinea. From the very beginning of its life as an independent state, in 1975, Papua New Guinea has had embodied in its constitution human rights provisions as entrenched 29 basic and fundamental rights and freedoms of the human person. These cover all internationally recognized human rights Covenants and more. They include the liberty of the person, freedom from forced labor, freedom from arbitrary search and entry, freedom of conscience, thought and religion, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association, the right to freedom of employment, the right to privacy, freedom of information, freedom of movement, and protection from unjust deprivation of property. An honest and objective assessment of the situation in Papua New Guinea should leave no one in doubt as to our good record in the observance of and respect for human rights. My Government therefore sees no difficulty in meeting the request made by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights to provide a report on alleged human rights abuses in Bougainville. Outsiders have been allowed to visit and to report on what they see; Bougainville is neither closed nor shut off from all external contacts. The Bougainville peace conference is expected to discuss human rights issues, including allegations of abuses. The Government intends to set up a human rights commission to investigate, provide redress for and prevent repetition of human rights violations. We are confident that the report we are providing will deal with all legitimate United Nations concerns. The situation in Bougainville is not a colonial problem. It is not a problem of human rights as such. It is not a minority or indigenous people’s issue. The trouble in Bougainville Province, stemming as it does from claims to compensation for the use of tribal lands in the process of development during a mining project, makes all separatist claims that are being canvassed by some commentators ring very hollow. Compensation claims are very common in all the provinces of Papua New Guinea, which is a country experiencing a mining and petroleum resources development boom. The ownership of the land in which the mineral resources are located is vested in groups of clans or tribes or other congregations of extended families, and in a very special way their whole being is wrapped up in the land and the environment. Therefore the determination of the legal rights of these groups to the benefits from any mining projects on their land becomes a very complicated and sensitive affair indeed. This is the real basis of the Bougainville problem, and it is a problem faced by the Government in just about every province in the country. A perfectly legitimate resource-benefit dispute between the mining company and the traditional landowners has taken advantage of by criminal elements, whose activities derailed the negotiations for a just solution on compensation for the use of land for the development of the giant Panguna copper mine, which at the time was the biggest foreign-exchange earner for the country. In a vibrant democracy such as the one we have in Papua New Guinea, we cannot deny our people’s fundamental rights. The exercise of their rights determines the Government that will take office. In our continuing effort to find a resolution to the unfortunate situation in Bougainville, my Prime Minister has recently taken an initiative to bring the conflict to a peaceful end. We have accordingly negotiated a cease-fire with all major parties to the crisis. I am pleased to add that preparations for a Bougainville peace conference, planned to begin on 10 October, are well in hand. A regional peace-keeping force, made up of units from Tonga, Fiji and Vanuatu, with Australian and New Zealand logistical support and the cooperation, in particular, of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Government and people of the Solomon Islands, is being formed to facilitate the peace process. I am pleased to say that at this very moment a status-of-forces agreement has been signed in Suva, Fiji, between my Prime Minister and representatives from the participating countries to formalize the arrangements. We believe this peace-keeping operation now being put in place is an example of regional self-help, and an approach worthy of endorsement and wider consideration and application. While we are attempting to find a peaceful solution to the worst crisis faced by Papua New Guinea since independence, my Government can only express its deep concern at the continuing failure of people with much older national institutions to do the same, and of Governments elsewhere to act purposefully in their stead. We are deeply disturbed by the continuing violence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the elusive cease-fire process and the paralysis of political will that has so far failed to halt aggression. In the cases of Rwanda, Somalia and other trouble areas, I must say that the horrors being revealed to the world have caused the most profound shock in my country. Can we, the Members of the United Nations, really do no more to end the violence, to reduce the suffering and to bring mass murderers to 30 justice? Can we not act faster? Can we be no more effective? These questions are especially urgent in an age where the complaint has sometimes been made that the United Nations is not balancing its attention and resources properly between peace-keeping and development. Even as we regret the terrible situations in some parts of the world, we can only be heartened by developments elsewhere. Thus my Government welcomes the constructive steps being taken by the Government of Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization to build peace in one of the most troublesome parts of the world. We applaud the skilful, determined and unselfish diplomacy that has facilitated the process and still continues to lend it support. Elsewhere in the world, developments to bring about a political settlement in Haiti have given my Government cautious hope that diplomacy will continue to be an effective means of securing peace in such a complex situation. The cease-fire in Northern Ireland suggests that all is never completely lost in even the most enduring and seemingly intractable conflicts. Closer to home, my Government is optimistic about the prospects for securing peace through the Regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and other efforts to enhance confidence-building in South-East Asia. We urge the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to desist from the development of nuclear weapons. Firmly committed to maintaining and strengthening relations with the People’s Republic of China on the basis of existing agreements, my Government none the less sees the developing dialogue between the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan as very promising indeed. Following the successful World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna in 1993, the draft text of the Agenda for Development acknowledges that development is a human right. It also states quite rightly that development is 'the most secure basis for peace'. But development in an increasingly interdependent world involves more than national will and resources. It requires international support, or at least an international environment that is not actively hostile. While the world must surely welcome the successful conclusion of the Uruguay round of negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, peoples and Governments in developing countries are entitled to look for more, particularly by way of measures to reduce and ultimately remove completely barriers that obstruct our capacity to compete effectively in international trade. Successive Papua New Guinea Governments have been active participants in the deliberations of the Special Committee on decolonization. We have been strong advocates of the right to self-determination in New Caledonia and of special safeguards for the indigenous Kanaks. Like other members of the South Pacific Forum, we remain firm in our support of the rights of the Kanaks. Our vigilance in relation to the implementation of the Matignon Accords will be maintained until the ultimate objective is achieved. With formal termination of the last United Nations Trusteeship mandate, over Palau, later this year, and with the implementation of the Compact of Free Association with the United States of America, my Government looks forward to welcoming Palau to full membership of the United Nations in due course. In taking a global view from the perspective of the part of the Asia-Pacific region where Papua New Guinea is located, I have tried to relate immediate national and regional issues to wider international concerns. In doing so, I have been aware that other delegations, hearing of events and attitudes in my part of the world, have been placing us in a global perspective too. In the South Pacific, my Government sees worthwhile prospects for enhancing mutually beneficial cooperation in a number of areas that have not previously received the attention they deserve, including the promotion of trade, investment and tourism, and development of the region’s vast natural resources. Papua New Guinea believes that the ongoing consultations aimed at expanding the number of permanent seats on the Security Council and at the revitalization of the General Assembly are timely. We hope that the process will reflect the current international economic and political climate. Thus, we are pleased to note the progress being made in improving financial controls and in exploring options for further reform within the United Nations system. We hope that both processes will contribute to further development of the Organization’s capacity for effective achievement of its objectives. 31 As we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we should all re-commit ourselves to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. An era of cooperation and understanding has dawned. Let us not miss the opportunity for peace, security and prosperity for humanity. Mr. President, I am delighted to begin by congratulating you and your country, Côte d’Ivoire, on your election as President of the General Assembly at this session. I also wish to thank your distinguished predecessor, Ambassador Insanally. Let me also take this opportunity to congratulate the Sovereign Military Order of Malta on its admission to Observer status in the General Assembly. My statement fully endorses and follows on that of the German Foreign Minister, who spoke in his capacity as Chairman of the European Council. 6 From the very beginning of its membership in the United Nations Italy’s foreign policy has been guided by its active support for the Organization’s principles and functions. Our contributions to United Nations deliberations, peace-keeping operations and aid through multilateral channels are tangible proof of Italy’s faith in the project drawn up at San Francisco almost 50 years ago. Our newly elected Government will remain steadfast in this approach to supporting the United Nations and building upon the historic opportunities offered by the new international situation. Let me emphasize that, now more than ever, Italy is firmly committed to fostering personal, political, and economic freedom, protecting individual rights and liberties and enforcing the rule of law. These are the preconditions for peace and prosperity and the reasons why Italy is presenting its candidature to the Security Council for the period 1995-1996. Unfortunately, the hopes that were kindled by the end of the cold war, with its promises of peace and stability, have not been met in international reality. At the same time, there is little doubt that today we are facing fewer global risks, despite local conflicts, intolerance and racial and ethnic strife. It is thus our task to embark on a new age of cooperation, democracy and development, in which the United Nations must play a central role. Today, the General Assembly can become the link between expectations and commitment. Italy will continue to play its part in peace-keeping, as it is already doing in eight different missions, including logistical support for the operation in former Yugoslavia and training centres and permanent bases for peace-keeping forces on its territory. The new United Nations base in Brindisi is particularly significant in this regard. However, we cannot ignore the high costs of the proliferation of primarily internal conflicts. The budget for peace-keeping operations currently amounts to approximately $3 billion, three times the regular budget of the Organization. The Presidency of the European Union has noted this particular aspect of peace-keeping operations. We must strengthen preventive diplomacy in order to avoid over-extending our capabilities, becoming ineffective and risking financial collapse. In the wake of the crisis in Rwanda, my Government is promoting the establishment of a task force for rapid intervention in humanitarian emergencies. This matter is now being considered in the appropriate forums and the results will be presented to the United Nations. I welcome the support expressed for an emergency humanitarian instrument by the Presidents of the United States, the Russian Federation and Argentina, and believe that our ideas and proposals follow the same orientation. Entrusting peace-keeping functions to regional organizations is another option for crisis management. My Government has moved consistently in this direction at the national level and in its capacity as Chairman-in-Office of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). Italy attaches particular importance to an effective and efficient functioning of the Security Council. The matter of equitable representation on the Security Council and of increasing its membership requires thorough examination. To this end, Italy has submitted one of the most realistic and comprehensive proposals to the Ad Hoc Working Group. We hope that the General Assembly will reach a consensus on the methods and timetable for a truly equitable reform. Many members question whether the pre-eminence the Organization has given to peace-keeping in recent years has not drained the other fundamental objectives of the United Nations - namely, economic and social development - of initiative and resources. The Secretary-General has wisely acknowledged these concerns in his recent agenda for development. Mr. Seniloli (Fiji), Vice-President, took the Chair. As that document states, peace is only one of the dimensions of development. The others are the economy, the environment, justice and democracy. To the extent that democracy protects and promotes personal liberty and economic freedom, it has a decisive impact on development by encouraging the strongest force behind economic growth and personal development - individual creativity. A prosperous democracy will be free of the internal tensions that have caused so many of today’s conflicts. The United Nations will foster a more peaceful world by promoting freedom and justice in addition to continuing its peace-keeping functions. In today’s world, the issue of trade is of paramount importance. As I like to say, trade unites us; politics divides us. At the Naples Summit, Italy, in its present capacity as Chairman of the G-7, strongly advocated the further dismantling of barriers to world trade in order to foster the creation of wealth. We are convinced that the leaders of the free world must avoid squandering the unique opportunity for world peace and prosperity offered 7 by current historic developments. They must resist the pressure of interest groups and be ready to serve the general interests of their nations and the nations of the world, which today more than ever require the opening of markets and the liberalization of trade. This will be the role of the World Trade Organization. In this spirit, we endorse the principles of the agenda for development and are ready to help establish the guidelines for their implementation. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations Charter will provide an opportunity for fostering such a process. I should now like to address the United Nations General Assembly in my capacity as Chairman-in-Office of the CSCE. We are actively promoting peaceful solutions to several regional crises. In the former Yugoslavia we are engaged in restoring long-term missions, appointing Ombudsmen for the Bosnian Federation, instituting a CSCE mission in Sarajevo and admitting The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to the CSCE. We have lent our good offices to Ukraine, where a CSCE mission will be instituted, and to Georgia for the crises in South Ossetia and Abkhazia. The CSCE Presidency has also worked towards facilitating the withdrawal of Russian troops from the Baltic States and finding a solution to the problems of citizenship and status of non-citizens in that area. Through the local CSCE missions, the CSCE Presidency is also attempting to foster a political solution to the Moldova-Trans-Dniester and Tajikistan crises, while it actively supports the efforts of the Chairman of the Conference on Nagorny Karabakh, Ambassador Eliasson. At the 1992 Helsinki Summit the CSCE declared itself to be a regional arrangement under Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter and adopted specific guidelines on peace-keeping. The ministerial meetings in Stockholm and Rome led to the United Nations-CSCE Framework Agreement in March 1993 and to the CSCE’s being granted observer status at the United Nations. My recent letter to the Secretary-General on developing and strengthening cooperation between the CSCE and the United Nations was a follow-up to these decisions, as was the establishment of relations between the CSCE and numerous United Nations agencies working in areas of common concern. One specific proposal is to attribute primary responsibility to the CSCE for issues concerning stability and security in its area, without impinging on the statutory powers of the Security Council. Peace-keeping is an area that requires closer cooperation. The two Organizations should adopt a standard set of principles for the peace-keeping activities undertaken by individual States or third parties. I should like to address the European Presidency’s statement and memorandum on our current international policies, limiting myself to those issues which more closely concern Italy for historical and geographical reasons. Italy warmly welcomes the acceptance by the Croatian-Muslim federation and the Serbian-Montenegran federation of the peace plan submitted to them on 6 July. That plan provides a realistic solution to territorial disputes and constitutional issues and ensures that Bosnia and Herzegovina will retain its international identity. Unfortunately, the repeated rejection of the plan by the Bosnian Serb leadership is a source of deep disappointment. This has made tougher sanctions against Pale inevitable in order to force it to reconsider its position. The partial lifting of sanctions against Belgrade, which we have advocated from the beginning, will encourage the Serbian Government to pursue its new, more constructive policy. This includes the agreement to allow international monitors to ensure the effective sealing of the border between Serbia and Bosnia. In our ongoing commitment to find a solution to the intractable crisis in Bosnia, we have been trying to involve other important international forums, starting with the G-7, enlarged to include Russia, in joint efforts to foster a political solution. With regard to the Middle East, Italy welcomed the signing of the Cairo Accords, concluded on 4 May, which authorized the start of self-government in Gaza and Jericho. We also salute the subsequent transfer to the Palestinian authorities of jurisdiction over the issues covered in the Washington Agreements. Italy is pleased to have contributed to the resumption of negotiations that led to the Cairo Accords, through our participation in the international temporary presence in Hebron to implement Security Council resolution 904 (1994). Italy reaffirms its commitment to contributing politically and economically to the reconstruction of the Palestinian territories. The Israeli-Jordan Accords of 25 July represent a milestone in the construction of a new Middle East on the basis of peace and cooperation. We hope that all these developments will stimulate progress in other negotiations between Israel and its neighbours. 8 In the Mediterranean basin, serious instabilities and tensions are spreading. Italy intends to make its efforts to ensure that this region sets an example of tolerance, economic cooperation and democracy. As one of the main architects of the peace process in Mozambique, Italy is pleased with the progress achieved in recent months. Elections are now set for 27 and 28 October this year. We will continue to collaborate with the United Nations and other donor countries in the reconstruction of Mozambique. We also hope that regional cooperation in southern Africa will help improve economic conditions in Mozambique, thereby strengthening the process of peace and democratization. We hope that Mozambique will become another United Nations success story, like the peace-keeping operations in Namibia, Cambodia, El Salvador, Guatemala and elsewhere. We would also like to encourage the trends towards re-establishing peace in Angola on the basis of the Peace Accords and the pertinent Security Council resolutions. An area that has seen great progress in recent years is the further strengthening of disarmament and non- proliferation. The implementation of existing agreements is a difficult task for our diplomacies, but the drive towards more advanced forms of disarmament and arms control is relentless. We look forward confidently to negotiations to ban nuclear testing and to halt the production of fissionable material. Progress in this field should also contribute to the indefinite and unconditional extension of the Non- Proliferation Treaty. With regard to conventional weapons, I wish to take this opportunity formally to announce the terms of Italy’s moratorium on the export of anti-personnel mines. The moratorium will apply to all transfers and be applied until new international regulations become effective. This commitment imposes an economic cost, but one that my country is willing to pay. We urge all Member States to adopt similar national moratoriums until the international regime has been finalized. But let us not forget that conflicts, especially internal ones, are also created through the violation of fundamental human rights. That is why we are in favour of strengthening the mechanisms to monitor and protect those rights by fully implementing the High Commissioner’s mandate and strengthening the Centre for Human Rights. When these rights are seriously violated, despite all efforts, we are in favour of recourse to a fair judicial process. In the same spirit with which we welcomed and contributed to the International Tribunal on crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia, we support the creation of an international criminal court for the adjudication of all violations of human rights, wherever they may occur. This court must be allowed to inflict the appropriate punishment, with the exception of the death penalty, which Italy has consistently opposed. We are particularly pleased that, after years of hard work, the International Law Commission has completed a draft statute for the court, and look forward to contributing to the Assembly’s debate on the matter. The strengthening of international security is closely related to the fight against terrorism and organized crime. From 21 to 23 November this year, Italy will be hosting in Naples the ministerial World Conference on Organized Transnational Crime, under the auspices of the Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Branch of the United Nations. Italy is also actively participating in the preparation of the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen in March 1995, by contributing its experience in the three crucial issues on the agenda: combating poverty, unemployment and discrimination. We live in an exciting but complex world. Few of us would disagree with the comment of Alfonso the Wise, King of Castile, a medieval patron of astronomy, who is quoted as saying, in effect, 'If the Lord Almighty had consulted me before embarking on the Creation, I would have recommended something simpler.' While rereading the first address Italy delivered to this Assembly at the eleventh session, I was deeply moved, and not only because it was given by my father. Rereading it, it made poignantly clear the far-reaching changes since 1956, both on the international scene - from decolonization to the end of the cold war - and on the Italian domestic political scene. In that address, he defined the United Nations as 'the most complete expression of that education of the human race, acquired, as Lessing said, through suffering and error'. (Official Records of the General Assembly, Eleventh Session, Plenary Meetings, 588th meeting, para. 94) And today, so many years later, it is an honour for me to reaffirm the same profound conviction and to pledge to this Assembly the total dedication of Italy and its Government to the ideals embodied in the United Nations Charter. irst, I am very pleased to convey to the President my warmest congratulations on his election to preside over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. His wide experience and knowledge of international affairs, his well-known wisdom and patience are guarantees of success in the many difficult tasks of this session. I should also like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary- General of our Organization, for the praiseworthy efforts he has made in the service of world peace and development. Aware how heavy is his burden in this complex, fast-changing time, we wish him every possible success in the discharge of his lofty duties. The present session of the General Assembly is taking place at a time when the world situation is still undergoing very complex changes. While the end of the bipolar era opened the door to dialog and cooperation between States, it did not usher in an era of peace, which the world so badly needs if it is to construct a sound world economy. In some regions of Europe, Africa and Asia, religious, ethnic, tribal and border conflicts, often of tragic proportions, are still raging, thus making the international situation unstable and fragile. It therefore seems clear that it will be difficult to achieve a new world order in which true peace prevails and in which peoples and nations, large and small, powerful and weak, rich and poor, benefit. The international community should give more thought to this matter and join together to build a new era of peace and justice, to which the peoples of the world have so long aspired. In Europe, the situation in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is still tense. The risk of new military clashes between the various parties remains. It is our view that the parties to this painful conflict should demonstrate wisdom and above all realism by concluding a just and equitable political settlement as soon as possible, and thus contribute to the restoration of peace in that country and in the entire region. In Africa, after so many years of efforts, both within and outside the United Nations, the Republic of South Africa is free at last. In a spirit of national reconciliation, the parties concerned have managed to reach an understanding and to cooperate in the building of a united, non-racial and democratic South Africa. We continue to believe that the people of South Africa, under the wise leadership of President Nelson Mandela, will prove equal to the task of overcoming the obstacles that face them and begin the economic development of their beloved land. Still in Africa, in Rwanda, we have seen unprecedented bloodshed. The Government and people of Laos strongly condemn the abominable carnage, which has been described as genocide of an innocent population, and we call upon the parties to the conflict to take the necessary steps to prevent such unacceptable crimes from ever happening again. The world is following closely the disturbing humanitarian situation in the Caribbean. In our view, there should be a political solution to this complex situation, through sincere dialog between the parties directly concerned. The signing of the joint communique of 9 September 1994 by the Republic of Cuba and the United States of America to resolve the problem of the exodus of Cubans - the consequence of more than 30 years of externally imposed economic constraints - is clear proof of this. That agreement, the fruit of long and difficult negotiations between the two parties, constitutes an important first step in the settlement of their differences, which should contribute to strengthening peace, stability and cooperation in the region. In Haiti, due to the animosities still keenly felt by the partisans of the military regime and President Aristide's sympathizers, the political situation continues to be fragile and complex. We believe that, in the best interests of the Haitian nation, it is time for the parties to show great wisdom and begin the economic reconstruction of their beloved land. In the Middle East, the autonomous interim Palestinian Authority, established in the Gaza Strip and the Jericho region, pursuant to the Declaration of Principles on interim autonomy arrangements, signed in Washington on 13 September 1993, marked a new phase in the search for a just and lasting comprehensive settlement of the Arab- Israeli conflict. We welcome this new, crucial step, and hope that the parties to the conflict will do everything possible to achieve a comprehensive settlement, just and honorable for all, within the framework of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and other relevant United Nations resolutions. In Western Asia, despite countless efforts exerted towards a peaceful settlement of the conflict, Afghanistan remains the theater of a bloody civil war. In conformity with the recent statement of the President of the Security Council on 11 August 1994, we address an appeal to the parties concerned immediately to put an end to their hostilities, achieve national reconciliation and begin the difficult reconstruction of their ravaged homeland. In the Korean peninsula, after months of uncertainty, dialog between the parties concerned has finally resumed. We warmly encourage that dialog and the Lao delegation welcomes the conclusion of the Agreement signed in Geneva on 12 August 1994 between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States of America. Because of its importance everything should be done to ensure that this sensitive region of the world becomes a nuclear-weapon-free zone. In the interests of peace, stability and cooperation in that region as well as in the world, it is essential that all the parties concerned show understanding and mutual trust in order to find a peaceful solution to the issues between them. In South-East Asia a new era of cooperation in areas of common interest between countries of the region has grown ever stronger. The inauguration in April of the Lao- Thai friendship bridge across the Mekong, built with financial assistance and cooperation from the Government and the people of Australia, is an especially salient event for Laos, Thailand and Australia, as well as other countries of the region, in our efforts further to strengthen regional cooperation in different areas. In addition, the Heads of State or Government of our respective countries have regularly been exchanging visits with a view to expanding and deepening their friendship and cooperation in an extensive and fruitful field of cooperation. The participation of my country, once again, in the ministerial meeting of the countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) in July in Bangkok, Thailand, once again demonstrates our sincere desire to cooperate in all possible areas with the countries of ASEAN, thus responding to the desires and deep aspirations of the peoples of the region and the world. The present situation in the Kingdom of Cambodia remains the subject of major world attention. As an immediate neighbor, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, ardently wishes that the Cambodian people will be able to live their lives in peace, in an atmosphere of national reconciliation, and to work for the reconstruction of their homeland, which will thus contribute to the strengthening of peace and cooperation in the region. To that end we fully support the various measures that have been taken by the Cambodian Government, under the leadership of His Royal Highness Prince Norodom Ranariddh, and His Excellency Mr. Hun Sen. In Myanmar a new, important event has taken place. Efforts towards national reconciliation and the start of economic cooperation with the outside world have been bearing their initial fruits, thus consolidating the stability of the country. In the Lao People's Democratic Republic we note, fortunately, that on the whole our economic performance has been good. On the average, annual economic growth for the past three years has been of the order of 6 per cent to 7 per cent in real terms. The inflation rate has not exceeded 10 per cent a year and exchange rates generally remain stable. No less importantly, foreign investment has considerably increased. At the present time the Lao Government is exerting major efforts to achieve the goals set in its socio-economic development strategy from now to the year 2000. That strategy presented to the fifth round-table meeting organized expressly for the Lao People's Democratic Republic in Geneva last June, under the sponsorship of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), was conceived as a realistic and trustworthy document and has received broad support from participants. On behalf of the Lao Government and people I wish to take this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation to the friendly countries, international organizations and non-governmental organizations for the assistance they have afforded us in the past in our efforts towards national development and we hope to be able to continue to benefit from that assistance in various fields. The world economy, far from improving, still faces an uncertain future. Marked by recession and imbalances, it also suffers from grave structural problems. Developed countries do not hesitate to take certain measures that run counter to the legitimate interests of developing countries. Because of the world economy's interdependence it is important that developed countries undertake to cooperate with the developing countries in order to restore the economy and to promote development in the interests of all. In that respect it is essential fully to honor commitments undertaken in support of international cooperation as they have been set forth in resolutions of the General Assembly, in particular, the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the Developing Countries, the International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade and the resolutions of the conferences that have followed it. The question relating to drug abuse and illicit trafficking remains an issue of world concern. Aware of the disastrous consequences that can result from this, the Lao Government has taken vigorous measures to encourage the population gradually to give up the poppy crop and to choose other substitute crops, created a special unit against drug abuse, and established cooperation with neighboring countries in order to make its contribution to the international fight against this scourge. As part of these efforts and with the assistance of the United Nations International Drug Control Program (UNIDCP) this year we have developed a comprehensive program for drug control. That program, the cost of which is $35 million, consists of setting up 16 projects, including the strengthening of drug control administration, reduction of supply through eradication of the poppy crop, a strategy for treatment and rehabilitation, and the establishment of a special investigation unit. With assistance and cooperation from the international community we hope to be able to achieve the goal we pursue. The advancement and defense of human rights is an important and sensitive question. Unanimously seen as universal, these rights, often having historical, cultural and religious implications, are inseparable and interdependent. On that note we welcome the creation of the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights and it is our hope that the High Commissioner will effectively discharge the very responsible functions that have been assigned to him. The world exists in an uncertain international political environment. In that context the United Nations, the only universal multilateral forum, should have a crucial role to play. Strengthened by the purposes and principles of its Charter, it is in a position to provide the necessary framework for cooperation, dialog among States and the maintenance of international peace and security. In order to carry out its noble task effectively in this new era, the United Nations must restructure and democratize itself. It is also most important that the United Nations give top priority to a program of action on development that could serve as a framework for promoting growth and economic development throughout the world. We feel that, to be effective, any program of action on development must be action-oriented and based on a spirit of true international cooperation and interdependence; above all, it must take into account the basic legitimate interests of developing countries, especially the least developed among them. I would like to congratulate Mr Amara Essy, Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire on his election as President of this important Assembly I should also like to extend to Ambassador Samuel Insanally the congratulations of Ecuador on his brilliant performance during the last session. 13 Equally, on behalf of the Government of Ecuador, I should like to extend our congratulations to the Secretary General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his work in carrying out his important duties. During these last few years, the world of international relations has undergone a swift and profound transformation. Several problems which divided nations have disappeared, while other have emerged, as have forces and elements whose existence invites careful reflection. The most serious ideological differences have been overcome and we have witnessed with satisfaction the holding of free elections in South Africa; however, in other parts of the world, other evils have reappeared - racism, xenophobia, civil wars - and problems such as hunger and poverty have become more acute. Bosnia, Somalia, Haiti, and Rwanda are just some of the names which now move mankind’s moral conscience. At the same time, the historic role of the United Nations has acquired a unique and far-reaching meaning, and the near future of the planet appears linked to the directives and decisions adopted in the General Assembly and in the Security Council. The fact that the United Nations is about to celebrate 50 years of existence is truly pleasing, because it means that this forum of mankind has consolidated its leading role in history. At the same time, this anniversary leads us to reflect on ways to improve the Organization. This process will inevitably involve reconsidering some United Nations structures in order to adapt them to the new demands of development which will be discussed at the social summit soon to take place in Copenhagen. The social summit must enable nations, taking account of the many decades during which trade and financial matters have played against less developed countries, to commit themselves to more direct action to face the problems of inadequate education, illness, violence and poverty. The United Nations is approaching its fiftieth year at a time when building a new international order has become imperative. Ecuador wants this new international order to be marked by unconditional respect for the principles of the Organization’s Charter, by the international economic restructuring which for many years has been one of the main aspirations of the developing world, and by effective and continuing solidarity and interdependence among all the nations on our planet. The changes on the international scene have brought about a new and growing interest in the United Nations. The international community turns to the Organization more often and with more confidence when it needs help in solving its problems. The Organization’s structures must be revised and strengthened so that its responses can meet the needs that have been put to it. To carry out this endeavour, it will be necessary to address statements that have been made regarding the new composition of the Security Council and to consider the need to revitalize the General Assembly, giving it functions and responsibilities in keeping with its status as the highest forum of the Organization. An international order based on and designed for the human person must have at its disposal an adequate tool for carrying out programmes needed for the economic and social development of our peoples. From that point of view, it is imperative for us to undertake a process of strengthening the Economic and Social Council. Furthermore, we have to create conditions that will provide the indispensable motivation for States, given the new circumstance of the world, to place their full trust in the International Court of Justice. Ecuador, a country that has the deepest respect for fundamental human rights, appreciates and assumes with the utmost responsibility the trust of the international community, granted through this Organization, enabling it to contribute to the work of the most important forums devoted to the promotion and protection of all human rights. The Government of Ecuador echoes the expressions of support to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. It trusts that his difficult task will be based on the frank understanding of the international community. It also expresses its conviction that the Assembly will commit the necessary administrative and financial resources to facilitate the duties of the High Commissioner. Human rights and social development are inseparable, indivisible. In daily reality we cannot separate respect for human rights from fair economic relations. As stated by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), quality of life is a subject which cannot remain at the entire mercy of the game of macroeconomic statistics. We developing countries are affected in our foreign trade by the gradual deterioration of the terms of 14 exchange, a phenomenon which generates serious social consequences and which forces us to export greater volumes of raw, finished and semi-manufactured goods. We also face non-tariff barriers, and many other measures that block access by our products - such as bananas and flowers in the case of Ecuador - to the markets of those very developed countries where the principle of free trade is designed and developed. This protectionist policy contradicts the goals of general welfare sought by the international community. The countries of Latin America, including Ecuador, have launched a great effort of adjustment and economic restructuring which must be properly understood and which offers a framework more conducive to international cooperation and to foreign investment. At this stage of history, neither the developed nor the developing countries can neglect the so-called social question, a product of the socio-economic inequities that dominate the world. The solution to this problem can be achieved only by international cooperation at all levels. The development of poor nations must depend on their own efforts, on cooperation based on smooth, effective and profoundly human mechanisms of integration. We believe in the fundamental right to life. Therefore, we cannot and will not accept the implementation of programmes conditioned on population control and abortion, which are what Pope John Paul II has called 'the culture of death'. These are the bases that should inspire solidarity and international cooperation. Environmental problems, and those linked to the dangerous use of nuclear weapons, have shown that we humans are all voyaging in the same boat and that our destinies are intertwined. Thus, the prosperity of some cannot result from the exploitation or damage of the environment of others; the accumulation of weapons in one country is nothing but a boomerang that country is throwing at itself. I want to recall the words of the Constitutional President of Ecuador, Mr. Sixto Durán Ballén, in this august forum, when he said: 'I must emphasize that although the developed countries, which are mainly responsible for the deterioration of the environment, have a particular obligation, it is other countries that are being asked to make the sacrifice of restricting the exercise of their legitimate right to use the wealth that nature has given them. It is necessary to seek due compensation jointly, especially in the shape of financial aid and technological cooperation'. (A/47/PV.12, p. 18) Inevitably, all our peoples must join forces to safeguard and restore the environment. In the ecological field, we have completed the stage of formulating rules and international conventions. Now we must join our resources and technical efforts to put those solutions into practice as soon as possible. That is why it is important to develop greater linkage between institutions such as the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank and the International Monetary Fund on the one hand, and programmes of the United Nations and the Global Environment Facility on the other. Therefore, genuine transfer of clean technologies is of great importance. It is especially worrisome that nuclear testing for military purposes continues to be carried out. Ecuador condemns these tests, which damage the environment, endanger the countries of the test area and ignore the right of all the peoples to peace and security. Furthermore, Ecuador is worried by the fact that in the post-cold-war era some countries have attracted significant numbers of technicians and nuclear scientists in order to develop their military power. Resolution 48/70, approved last December, opens the way towards a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty, which all States should support. We believe in the need not only to extend the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, but also to improve it and establish it forever. At the same time, we support the declaration of new nuclear-weapon-free zones, similar to those established by the Latin American Treaty. In this regard, it is a matter of serious concern that, while we are trying to limit and even eliminate nuclear arsenals, there has been an increase in the manufacture of conventional weapons and in the traffic in them. Accordingly, there is an imperative need, as the Holy See proposed through its Council for Justice and Peace, for the creation of an international authority to reduce the trade in weapons and to achieve the goal of a comprehensive ban on all kinds of weapons. Ecuador welcomes most warmly the agreements arrived at and the progress made in the Middle East in the process of establishing peace and normalizing the relations between Israel and its Arab neighbours. Ecuador firmly supports this process, which is an example for the solution of other, perhaps less complex, problems. 15 We also condemn the actions of extremist groups who, through terrorism, attempt to prevent the consolidation of peace in that important part of the world. We were particularly enthusiastic over the reinstatement of South Africa in this world Organization. With the victory over apartheid one of the United Nations longest and most difficult struggles has now come to an end. We must however reiterate our profound concern over the ongoing ethnic and religious clashes in the territories of the former Yugoslavia. Ecuador supports the actions taken by the international community in seeking a political solution that would ensure an end to the tragedy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now my country would like to issue a plea to the international community to provide generous humanitarian assistance for the victims in Rwanda. Recently, there has been a proliferation of United Nations peace-keeping operations. Notwithstanding all its shortcomings, the international effort in this regard is praiseworthy, but we believe this Organization should, basically, use preventive measures to deal with the underlying causes of civil, international and inter-ethnic conflicts, and along with thIs, it should also address the problems of injustice, inequality in economic and trade relations, and the persistence of prejudice and age-old enmity. The road to peace lies through programmes to provide help in practical and urgent terms, to those countries most affected by hunger and extreme poverty. There must be a prompt review of programmes of cooperation. There must be a more fruitful effort on the part of the specialized agencies of the United Nations system to develop a true culture of peace and the respect for the rights of others. The fundamental obligation of the United Nations - one might even say its real raison d’être - is not only the maintenance of international peace and security but also the raising of the economic, social and cultural standards of peoples. This is the only solid basis for progress and development. I believe it is time for this Assembly to adopt pragmatic resolutions so that we may spend less on paper and bureaucracy and more on technical and cultural missions and specific programmes that would reach those people that face the greatest problems, areas afflicted by war, plague and starvation. Ecuador has advocated a solution to the complex Haitian crisis that takes account of the principles of non- intervention and the peaceful settlement of disputes and that involves the participation of all sectors of Haitian society, with the broadest respect for human rights and taking account of the relevant resolutions of the Organization of American States and of the United Nations. Ecuador trusts that democracy will be established permanently and as soon as possible in Haiti. To that end, it is offered all the diplomatic and political support that it can. At the same time, we would wish to participate in the humanitarian efforts to contribute to the rebuilding of the Haitian economy, once constitutional order is restored. Ecuador would also be in favour of continuing the Cuban-American dialogue in that same constructive spirit and with good will. We fervently hope that our sister nation of Cuba may be able to become fully involved again in hemispheric cooperation. It will be necessary to make great strides along the road to broadening and strengthening democracy and pluralism, and at the same time an end must be put to the unilateral blockade to which Cuba has been subjected for many years. In keeping with our constant desire to contribute to a climate of peace, understanding and cooperation among peoples, Ecuador has been seeking some means of dealing with its age-old controversy with Peru and strengthening its ties of friendship and cooperation between the peoples of Ecuador and Peru. As we said earlier, Ecuador attaches very special importance within this process, to the intervention of His Holiness the Pope, in seeking a definitive solution to this problem. This is in view of the high moral authority of His Holiness, which is recognized by both our peoples. It is increasingly clear to our two nations that the way to development is to be found in working together in harmony. We wish to deepen and broaden our far-reaching common interests. This is to the mutual benefit of our two countries and would enable us to become efficient partners as we develop together. All the nations represented in this Assembly are called upon to build a better world, a world free from the horrors of war, hunger and environmental destruction. May we, through our work, respond to this historic challenge. It is my particular privilege and pleasure to address the General 4 Assembly of the United Nations at the beginning of its forty-ninth session. I believe we all agree that the appearance of any statesman before the General Assembly is a great moment for moral and political reconsideration of one’s own reflections and responsibilities towards the international public. This applies equally to the representatives of the esteemed founder States and to us who represent young democracies. This is an opportunity to present our views on the problems affecting our countries, but also on all other issues of importance for the global Organization. This is also an opportunity to compare, with the utmost seriousness, the lofty ideals incorporated in the United Nations Charter with the difficulties and intricacies of daily achieving political agreement for their realization. The noble fundamental principles of the United Nations governing the rights and obligations of individuals, nations and States generally agree with the basic principles underlying all world religions and philosophies, as well as the fundamental laws of individual States. Yet we are still painstakingly seeking a consensus on a new and just international order that would unite and harmonize the lofty goals of the United Nations Charter and the humanistic Weltänschauung with the visions of the new global order and with the specific ideals and interests of individual States. Unfortunately, many countries, such as my own, Croatia, which labours under difficulties owing to the disintegration of one regional international order and the establishment of another new order, are paying the highest human, material and political price for the imperfection of the world in which we live. In addressing the General Assembly as Head of the Croatian State and the highest representative of the Croatian people, I can note with satisfaction that the international position of Croatia has been strengthened and furthered in spite of all the problems affecting the actions of the international community. In only a few years since its independence and international recognition, Croatia has become a fully fledged and equal international citizen, having reinforced its position in the international community and expanded its network of bilateral relations with almost all States and international agencies. Moreover, Croatia has become a key factor in the establishment of the new regional order in South-eastern Europe and a recognized and important partner of the super-Powers and of the international community as a whole in the resolution of the intricate crisis, currently the most severe international crisis in this part of the world, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The adverse experience of the Croatian people throughout their history, and particularly over the past few years of the renewal of Croatian statehood, has taught us that no sublime principle recorded in the United Nations Charter and in international law is automatically attainable - even less is it guaranteed - if the people concerned are not determined to attain it; if they are not prepared to offer to make a high degree of sacrifice in the achievement of their right to life and freedom; and if they do not succeed, by virtue of their strength and decisions, in bringing their national interests into line with the essential interests of the international community. Despite the inalienable right of the Croatian people - one of the oldest European peoples - to self-- determination and to the renewal of their own State, despite the blatant barbaric aggression aimed at territorial conquest, the genocidal expulsion of the population and the destruction of the most precious cultural heritage of the Croatian people, such as Vukovar and Dubrovnik, the Croats would never have won the right to self-determination, to their State, to freedom and independence, had they not been prepared to make human and material sacrifices, had they not shown a firm nation-building will, with which they have resolutely asserted themselves as a member of the international community, while manifesting their readiness to be a constructive force in the development of the new international order to replace the unviable and failed old system. It is the duty of all of us - and especially of this, the highest global authority - to take more determined and more effective steps in the quest for means to break this vicious circle of suffering by individuals and peoples wrought by war. As the highest representatives of our States and peoples, we are morally and politically obliged to create an international order, with appropriate mechanisms, capable of efficiently defending the rights of each nation or group, and especially of small and young States. What we need are such mechanisms of the highest global Organization that can resolutely prevent or punish any violation of the fundamental principles of international law. Obviously, this also implies safeguarding the achievement of such rights and of generally accepted principles in a democratic way, so that each and every right does not have to be won the hardest way, with the blood of innocent lives, because such a way burdens the collective memory with covert hatreds, bias and 5 vengefulness, stirring up new divisions and even more destructive internal and regional crises. This applies to crises in the areas of the former Yugoslavia, just as it does to those in Rwanda, Somalia, the Caucasus, the Middle East, South Asia, Africa or America. It is precisely the crisis in the former Yugoslavia that has shown the immense evil that can be done by petty political exploitation of historical myths about collective guilt or historical injustice, about a conspiracy of the whole world against a single people, and by the emphasizing of the messianic role of a people to justify their conquest-minded policy, causing a great deal of harm not only to those threatened by such imperialistic policies, but also to the people themselves, who fall victim to their own fallacies and motives, which are unacceptable and detrimental to the international community. After the collapse of the bloc division of the world and the disintegration of many multinational States, we are faced with the task of building a new international order. All past experience suggests that the task is very difficult. To be successful, we need first and foremost a mechanism for diplomatic and political negotiation, for building confidence and for patiently overcoming real problems stemming from objectively differing interests. In cases where political efforts are obviously futile, the United Nations must have a more efficient mechanism to achieve and even impose solutions serving the interests of international peace and stability. However, for reasons of realpolitik and of the balance of interests and forces, in neither case should this contradict the fundamental principles of this Organization. It should be borne in mind that the mechanism for establishing and defending the new international order should not merely serve the coordination of the interests of the super-Powers, but must reflect their highest responsibility in dealing with regional crises, while being designed and structured to strengthen the security and progress of small or jeopardized members of the international community, which account for the greater part of mankind. The United Nations must be qualified to guarantee, within the international order, equal conditions in terms of freedom, progress and equality for all the members of the international community. The collapse of communism and of the bipolar division of the world has increased hopes for a world of greater justice and security for all. However, we must be aware of the fact that the collapse of the communist bloc and of multinational States has inevitably produced temporarily destabilizing effects in the international order. In this context, it should be noted that the proclamation of sovereign national States has mainly created positive conditions for the new international order, although in some cases, where nationalism has degenerated into chauvinist-extremist trends, or even into conquest-minded aggression, the effect has been negative. However, the essential point of these historical vicissitudes is the awareness of the fact that the endeavour of small peoples to attain statehood - meaning their political, cultural and economic identity and their personality within the international order - has made the greatest contribution to the collapse of communist totalitarianism and to the democratization of many countries. The full democratization of international relations is not possible without such democratization of internal political systems. The security of new small States has become today the key to stability in every region and it should provide the groundwork for new collective security systems. Only their complete security and equality can make them equal factors of civilizational and functional integration in specific areas and within the global order as a whole. The peoples of small countries will eagerly accept civilizational integration if it is not to the detriment of the individual quality of their State, culture and economy. Only such safeguarding of national individuality within civilizational integration can produce sound foundations for functional multilateralism in the new international order. Otherwise, the myths and prejudices of the past will continue to provide grounds for new conflicts and even clashes between civilizations. The disturbing scale which differences between civilizations can assume is clearly manifested in the former Yugoslavia, where local aggression threatens to expand even into a conflict involving three civilizational religious blocs unless the crisis, the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is resolutely brought to an end. Croatia has always supported a political solution by accepting the normalization of relations with all neighbours, even those of whose aggression we were victims, in order not only to create, on an equal footing, the prerequisites for a new international order but also to bring about a productive blending of the different civilizations facing one another in this part of the world. In view of the current state of affairs worldwide, we support a thorough organizational reform of the United Nations in order to improve both its responsibility and its efficiency in dealing with the pressing problems of humankind. Problems such as uneven development, population growth, the ecological balance of the planet, human and collective rights, functional global integration, and particularly crisis points and military hot spots, call 6 for a more effective organization of the highest international agency. We need an Organization which could have a more efficient bearing on establishing equal standards and obligations for all countries, and which would be entitled, in crises or on key issues affecting the development of humankind and life on our planet, 'to encroach', on behalf of the global community, upon internal affairs of States. The international community should have, within the United Nations, multilateral mechanisms capable of dealing more efficiently with pressing crises, and developmental, environmental and technological challenges now facing humankind. In this context careful consideration is required of the role of the General Assembly. Its activity must be credible, but it nevertheless cannot assume the role of a global parliament to the detriment of the sovereignty of Member States. Experience suggests that a clearer division of responsibility among the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council is required. Regional conflicts have become the chief problem now confronting the international community - not only because of the threat posed to international peace but also because they can cause terrible human disasters such as those in Rwanda, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Somalia. And, of course, they also block regional developmental processes, and result in scarcely reparable ecological damage and destruction of the natural and cultural heritage of entire areas. Such a state of affairs requires first a reform of the Security Council. The new global order can no longer be based only on the coalition of the victors in the Second World War, or on the nuclear club of the great Powers. It must reflect new democratic, economic and regional realities which necessarily lead to permanent Security Council membership and enhanced regional responsibility for countries such as Germany or Japan, and also some regional representatives of the so-called third world. On the other hand, the reform of the Security Council ought to avoid solutions which would, because of the increased number of members, make decision-making more difficult and the Council inefficient. The efficiency and credibility of the Security Council should be substantially strengthened in order to resolve the main problems related to international security, especially in conflicts causing military conflagration, first of all by reducing the gap between the content of the enacted resolutions and the possibility of their enforcement. All States of the world, and particularly the great Powers which have an enhanced responsibility within such a system, should in good faith make adequate economic and military instruments continuously available to the Security Council so that its decisions can be implemented. The peacemaking mediation of the global Organization must evolve from a static freezing of the conflict and curbing its expansion, into a mechanism capable of preventing the development of the crisis in a timely manner and of eliminating the consequences that are already present. In some cases the very decisions of the Security Council will suffice to stop and resolve the crisis, but sometimes a demonstration of firmness will be required. The international community must develop more systematic mechanisms to punish those States that do not accept or that violate Security Council decisions. The enforcement of international political or economic isolation of the aggressor, with concurrent compensation for neighbouring States which are indirect victims of such isolation, should be made even more effective. Sanctions are becoming an instrument used at an ever increasing rate when there is no political consensus, or will to resort to more energetic means, but they can produce the wanted effect only if implemented consistently within the scope of systematic pressure. The democratization of the international order entails a greater focus on the protection of human rights, including also punishment for violations of humanitarian law and the law of war. Croatia has endorsed the establishment of the War Crimes Tribunal in the area of the former Yugoslavia. Croatia likewise supports the establishment of a permanent international institution which would deal with the most severe violations of humanitarian law, whether in Rwanda, Somalia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia or Haiti. However, the international community should also devise ways and means to prosecute the perpetrators of crimes from those aggressor countries which refuse to cooperate with the Tribunal. Croatia proposes the provision of a permanent peace- keeping task force for the intervention requirements of the Security Council, involving special military units made available, through agreement with a specific number of countries for Security Council requirements. We believe that this could forestall the flaring up of many regional crises, or contribute to their rapid prevention. Such international forces should have a broader mandate in terms of the use of force, not only for their own protection but also for the energetic implementation of all 7 Security Council resolutions - from humanitarian objectives to disarmament and demilitarization. The peace- keeping force should be set up so that the national contingents within it implement the decisions of the Security Council and not the specific policies of their countries. The proliferation of regional crises confronts the United Nations with ever-increasing tasks which the Security Council cannot fulfil successfully with its limited resources. This suggests the need for the Security Council to assign the implementation of its decisions to regional organizations as well. This in turn requires the redefinition and strengthening of the role of regional organizations within the collective security system. Each crisis point should be dealt with by appreciating all specific features and by realistically evaluating the possible scope of regional systems in the implementation of Security Council decisions. The solutions at which we aim in the regional crisis affecting the area of the former Yugoslavia, as well as elsewhere, must proceed from the fundamental tenets of international law in order to arrive at a just and lasting solution which, in order to be acceptable, also implies compromise in terms of detail, but not in terms of the essential issues. Croatia is very encouraged by the increasingly successful peace developments in the Middle East, which demonstrate the patience and wisdom of both the Israeli and the Arab sides. We firmly believe that similar positive endeavours are also possible in South-Eastern Europe and the Balkans if they win the necessary united support and determination of the great Powers. Croatia welcomes the peaceful transfer of power to the majority people in South Africa after decades of internal and regional instability. South Africa is the best proof that there is no alternative to the equality of all citizens of a State. We also welcome the involvement of the international community in Rwanda, which, although it has not, unfortunately, prevented a human disaster on a scale beyond description, has at least stopped the spiral of death and lawlessness. We continue to support the current efforts to stabilize Rwanda and to prevent the revival and expansion of the conflict. The agreement of the international community to finally stop the agony of Haiti and establish a democratic order there is also encouraging. We similarly welcome the successful processes of democratization and stabilization throughout Latin and Central America. We have been following attentively the development of functional regional integration in North America, and the stronger integration trends in Europe, differences notwithstanding, as well as the rapprochement between the two largest countries in the European and Asian regions: Russia and China. We also welcome the constructive role of Japan in the Pacific area and the Far East. Within the scope of such global developments, with the major world Powers aiming not at reciprocal destruction but at positive competition and cooperation, Croatia, as a small country, sees its place, first of all, in West European civilization and in its economic and security system in order to have a guarantee for its independence, security and progress. Croatia sees its welfare and stability in the achievement of full membership in European integrative organizations. Croatia is prepared to responsibly assume its share of the burden in the development of the new international order and to constitute a strong link in the integration chain of a new Europe. In the very short time since it gained independence, Croatia has become a mature and responsible member of the international community. It is already a pillar of future stability and cooperation in that part of southwestern Europe which is linked to the traditionally agitated Balkans. Croatia has in good faith accepted international mediation and United Nations peace-keeping forces in its territory in order to stop the war and reach a political solution that will simultaneously safeguard its territorial integrity and the rights of national minorities within its borders. Croatia has accepted the well-intentioned advice given it concerning the constitutional position of the Serbian ethnic community in line with the highest standards of international conventions on the rights of national minorities, and has incorporated them into its constitutional law. Croatia has borne the heaviest brunt of the Bosnian crisis and of the human catastrophe wrought by war in that country. Croatia has provided a home or provisional accommodation to hundreds of thousands of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. We sustained this effort even during the Croatian-Muslim conflicts that occurred as a result of Serbian aggression, as the victims of that aggression sought space for their survival. We have prompted proposals on a mutual agreement on a 8 federation between the Croats and the Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and their confederal alliance with Croatia, which eventually resulted in the signing of the Washington Agreements. We have spared no effort to end the senseless war and renew cooperation between the Muslims and the Croats, who, owing to the indecision of the international community, have been brought to the point of a desperate fight for the remnants of Bosnian living space left after the barbarous Serbian aggression. In circumstances affected by its intricate ethnic and historical heritage, Croatia has shown the highest degree of cooperation in the search for a peaceful political solution to the crisis in the area of the former Yugoslavia, believing, in spite of all of its negative experiences, in the final victory of the principles of international law and in the necessity to normalize relations between the newly emerged States. However, this readiness to cooperate and this patience have certain limits. Split into two parts by the occupation of one-fourth of its territory, threatened continuously by outlaw terrorism, burdened by the social pressure posed by displaced persons and the war-exhausted economy, Croatia cannot endlessly agree to fruitless compromise, because the continuation of the crisis threatens the existence of the State and the lives of its citizens, and prevents the reconstruction of the economy destroyed by war. We believe that it would also be in the interest of the international community to give Croatia more determined and more consistent assistance so that it can successfully play its constructive part in the solution of the crisis. Croatia already is, and wants to remain, a mainstay of the new international order and a bridge of cooperation between the newly emerged States on the basis of mutual recognition. The indecision and aimless manoeuvring of the international community in circumstances distinguished by the presence of militancy in certain circles of the parties in conflict threaten to push Croatia into a new military conflict which could be even worse than the previous one in terms of scope, depth and consequences. The international community should not leave Croatia without a choice, in a position where it would be forced to resort on its own to all means necessary to defend its sovereignty, territorial integrity and the right of its citizens - displaced persons - to return to the occupied areas. We have always been aware that no crisis, particularly one as intricate as this, can be solved without consensus by the international community without a division of responsibility and an agreed approach of the great Powers. Accordingly, we are the first, as with previous peace endeavours, to welcome the efforts of the Contact Group to find an acceptable solution. Croatia is prepared to continue its high degree of cooperation and partnership with the international community if solutions for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the occupied Croatian areas are not sought at its expense. Both crises - the one in Croatia and the other in Bosnia and Herzegovina - have the same source: Serbian aggression. Because of this, and in view of the increasingly stronger cooperation between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, a package solution should be sought. Since the sanctions imposed by the international community have forced Belgrade to accept the proposal to end the war and the isolation of the Bosnian Serbs, who oppose it, Belgrade should also be made to desist from supporting the Croatian Serbs, who refuse to agree to the reintegration of occupied Croatian areas and brazenly oppose the implementation of all Security Council resolutions. In terms of its actual consequences, the 1991 arms embargo was aimed first and foremost at the victims of Serbian aggression. It was accepted at a time when those who formulated global policy mistakenly deceived themselves into thinking that that policy could save Yugoslavia, failing to see that the post-Tito crisis had developed because of the attempt to impose Serbian hegemony over all non-Serbian peoples in that artificial and Communist State formation. Our conditional restraint with regard to the lifting of the embargo is motivated at present exclusively by an endeavour focused on achieving, after all, a peaceful solution over the next few weeks or months. Croatia does not want to be drawn into a new war against its will, but it will be forced to accept it, in cooperation with the other victims of Serbian aggression, if the international community fails to achieve a peaceful solution that would not only put an end to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also bring about the reintegration of occupied Croatian areas. Croatia welcomes Belgrade’s announced readiness to isolate the Bosnian Serbs, with their suicidal war option, but expects Belgrade to do the same with regard to the insurgent Serbs in Croatia. Croatia demands that the lifting of sanctions against Serbia (Yugoslavia) be linked also to the cessation of the occupation of Croatian areas, that is, to their reintegration into Croatia’s constitutional and legal system. Moreover, the lifting of sanctions can be considered only after we have seen whether the 9 announced isolation is truly enforced and after this has been verified by credible control mechanisms. In order to promote positive trends, we also understand up to a point the partial symbolic suspension of sanctions in order to encourage in Serbia those currently expressing their commitment to peace. Nevertheless, Croatia will continue to insist that the lifting of certain sanctions against Belgrade, particularly those related to its being fully released from international economic and all other isolation, be linked to the solution of the problem of the occupied Croatian areas. Croatia has shown a great deal of patience in its dialogue with insurgent Serbs, but now, after three years of occupation, it demands from the international community a redefinition of the UNPROFOR mandate that will provide for the implementation of Security Council resolutions 769 (1992) and 871 (1993), and force the Croatian Serbs to accept gradual normalization and reintegration pursuant to the adopted peace plan. We realize that both sides, after any conflict, have to invest much time and effort into restoring and strengthening mutual confidence. We are also quite aware that no long-term stability and progress is possible in Croatia without guaranteed human and ethnic rights to the Serbian and other minority groups. We have indeed guaranteed such rights by a special constitutional law enacted three years ago, but we urge the international community to create conditions for the implementation of this law in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. We have also recently taken the decision to speed up the establishment of the human rights tribunal, and are prepared to accept international supervision of compliance with human and ethnic rights. However, the leaders of the Serbian insurgents, and their patrons in Belgrade, should forget their idea of a Greater Serbia and accept the reintegration of occupied Croatian areas on such foundations, to their own benefit and to the benefit of the entire community. We are prepared to accept gradual reintegration through the opening of communications, the return of populations, the reconstruction of destroyed towns and villages, and provisions for social welfare and legal protection. The democratic Government of Croatia is prepared - while urging the resolution of the fundamental political issue: the restoration of the sovereignty of the Croatian State over occupied areas - to genuinely comply with all guarantees related to the rights of the Serbian ethnic community. In keeping with its peaceful policy, Croatia is also prepared to normalize relations between Belgrade and Zagreb. To this end we shall accept any meeting leading to the recognition of the Republic of Croatia by Belgrade, within its internationally recognized borders, which would make the message to the insurgent Serbs regarding the necessity of gradual reintegration quite unambiguous. For this reason we have also raised the problem regarding the parts of the Republic of Croatia occupied by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia before the General Assembly, because there is indisputable evidence as to the comprehensive integration - in military, judicial, customs and monetary terms - of occupied Croatian areas into the economic and legal system of Serbia, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We would like to thank the vast majority of States in the General Assembly that have already given us their support in this matter. If Belgrade should express its readiness to recognize the Croatian State in the meantime, and to genuinely support reintegration and normalization, we would be pleased to spare the General Assembly the task of dealing with this problem any further. We would also like to thank the General Assembly for its support for the post-war rebuilding of Croatia, and we expect members’ continued understanding in this matter. In particular, we would like to emphasize that any normalization of relations - diplomatic, political or economic - on equal footing between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will not affect partnership and cooperation between the Croats and the Muslims in the realization of the Washington Agreements on the Croat-Muslim Federation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and its confederation with Croatia. No peace in the Balkans is possible without the establishment of a balance of forces, nor does the future of any people lie in endless reciprocal military exhaustion or in blocking development throughout the region. We therefore genuinely endorse the normalization of Croat-Serbian relations, but also the implementation of the Washington Agreements, which are in our view not only a tactical manoeuvre by the victims of Serbian aggression but also a development creating the preconditions for ensuring full equality to the Croats as a numerically smaller constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We see in this a pledge of future regional stability and balance of forces. The confederal link between the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 10 the Republic of Croatia provides the foundations for sustaining the sound political and economic relations suggested by history, the geographical link and geopolitical realities. By agreeing to a confederal relationship, Croatia is also prepared, with the assistance of primarily Western countries, to assume its share of the responsibility for curbing the smoldering, extreme national and religious trends on all sides, the spread of which could jeopardize stability not only in this part of South-Eastern Europe but also in the greater area. Croatia also attaches importance to the strengthening and realization of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its confederation with Croatia, the progress of which depends both on mutual relations and on the action taken by the international community in the coming months, for this establishes a political and economic bridge with the Islamic world. Along these lines we have already established close cooperation with Islamic countries fostering identical aspirations, such as Turkey, Jordan and others. Decisive weeks and months, in which we must struggle for a peaceful resolution to the grave crisis in the area of the former Yugoslavia, lie ahead of us. Not only the parties in conflict, but first and foremost the principal actors of the international community, bear a huge responsibility at this moment. This involves not only the decision on the fate of the United Nations Protection Force mandate in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also whether the Contact Group will succeed in sustaining a united operational basis for a solution or allow the situation to founder into a new military nightmare. The efforts of the international community focused on building a new international order are now being put to the test, more strikingly than anywhere else, on reversing the consequences of the aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. We can ultimately resolve this crisis if each of us assumes his share of the responsibility. Hatred must give way to happy children’s faces in reconstructed Croatian Vukovar, to the restored splendour of medieval Dubrovnik, to peaceful coexistence in long-- suffering and destroyed Sarajevo and Mostar. In order to achieve this, we must overcome the disastrous war and political crisis by joint efforts and by a well-devised vision of a new international order in this part of the world, in the interest of the entire global order and of the United Nations. I salute Ambassador Essy and warmly congratulate him on his unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. I express our happiness and that of the sons of Africa on his assumption of that important post. It is our hope that during his term of office Africa and the whole of the international community will achieve the development and the consolidation of peace and security to which our peoples aspire. I wish also to convey our compliments to Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana on his exemplary and able leadership during his presidency of the General Assembly at its forty- eighth session. I should also like to salute the Secretary-General for his tireless effort as leader of the Organization; we wish him all success. On this occasion it is my pleasure to welcome the return of the sister Republic of South Africa to the international community as a democratic country, that is now free from apartheid and that is governed by its own national will, to participate effectively in the development of Africa and of the world at large. In welcoming South Africa, I reiterate our continued support for its people, just as we were devoted to their cause during the struggle for the eradication of apartheid. Indeed, it is the destiny of people committed to the defence of their freedom to have their will tested. That is exactly the fate of the people of Sudan which, since the National Salvation Revolution came to power has decided to have an independent voice in all regional and international forums on all issues and in all fields, inspired by its principles based on its cultural heritage and its regional and international affiliations. I have the honour of briefing the Assembly on a number of the accomplishments my Government has achieved despite the obstacles it has faced owing to its adherence to the cultural choice of the Sudanese people. The Government of the National Salvation Revolution inherited armed discord in the South, with all its consequences. From the start, it accorded the highest priority to the achievement of a peaceful, negotiated, just and lasting settlement. It is the conviction of my Government that only a permanent solution will be acceptable to the people. During its five years in power, the Government has engaged in a number of peace talks with the rebel movement. These have taken place successively in Addis Ababa, Nairobi and twice in Abuja; recently there have been four rounds of talks in Nairobi. The talks have taken place with the help of neighbours and brethren who share our belief that it is the sons of Africa who can find suitable solutions to Africa’s problems. The Government, with earnest determination to ensure the success of the peace talks, proposed a new mechanism to expedite the peace process. This calls for the dispatch of personal envoys of the Presidents of the mediating countries to engage in shuttle diplomacy between the Government and the rebel movement. My Government, which is anxious to reach a just and lasting solution, not only entered into negotiations, but has also adopted the federal system of government that had long been called for by the southern Sudanese. It implemented the formula of power sharing and the sharing of wealth in the framework of Federalism. As regards the relationship between religion and State, the Government proposed a formula that would enable the majority to choose whatever suits its cultural heritage, without infringement on the rights of the rest of the population, ultimately bearing in mind the need to respect every citizen’s equal rights and the cultural diversity that characterizes the Sudan and of which we are so proud. That is why the southern Sudan, where the majority is non-Muslim, has been exempted from the application of Islamic law. Given its conviction that those who joined the ranks of the rebellion and those who happen to live in the rebel-held areas are Sudanese citizens who deserve, and are entitled to enjoy fully all their rights, the Government signed the Operation Life-Line Sudan III Agreement to ensure the delivery of food and medicines to whoever was in need. Officials of the United Nations were candid and sincere when they described Operation Life-Line Sudan as unprecedented world wide. The allegation that the root 32 causes of the war in southern Sudan are religious or ethnic is refuted by the fact that the majority of displaced persons moved northwards and to the national capital, while only a few migrated out of the country. Citizens of the south who had suffered the ravages of the lengthy war in the south took the initiative of convening the Juba Conference in May 1994. That Conference was also attended by a number of foreign Ambassadors accredited to the Sudan. Those who represented the south at that Conference reiterated the unity of the country and categorically rejected the isolated agenda of the rebels which aims at fragmenting the country. Nations manifest wisdom when, in quest of national identity and in search for an effective system of Government that best suits their special conditions and historical background, they draw inspiration from their own heritage. Our people have found this in the application of the shura, or consultation, as a system of Government to ensure the universality of opinions free from the tribal and sectorial fanaticism that causes disunity amongst the sons of the nation. This principle is exercised without a tyrannical authority that deprives them of their will. The shura is the overall vessel for political, developmental and social endeavour. To put the shura into practice, the Permanent Electoral Commission was founded in conformity with the electoral law enacted by the Transitional National Assembly, which is composed of neutral personalities of professional integrity. Voter registration was introduced to ensure an atmosphere conducive to fair and genuine elections that are scheduled to take place early next year, after the full participation of all the people is secured. To enable all strata of the population to participate effectively in administering and organizing themselves, developing their resources and enjoying all their rights, the central power made way for 26 State Governments within the framework of the federal system. This minimization of the administrative authority was aimed at achieving the advancement and welfare of the country through the development of its States. Our belief that almighty Allah elevated the human race above all other species is our guiding principle in the area of human rights. My Government has translated that belief into action in all areas. In order to ensure the effective enjoyment by all citizens of their human rights, the Government established the Supreme Council for Human Rights and bestowed upon it full constitutional liberty. It secured the freedom of the judiciary and protected it against interference by the political authority. The justice system was reformed to guarantee freedom of litigation, equity and rule of law. The Government of the National Salvation Revolution strengthened the role of women in the Sudan and upheld all their rights. It enabled women to occupy high constitutional, judicial, political and economic posts, while also upholding their social rights. Today, women represent 50 per cent of the labour force in Government offices, where they perform very ably. Statistics of the Ministry of Education revealed that 60 per cent of the students enrolled in universities and institutions of higher education are female. The best example of the confidence of the Government in its performance in the area of human rights is the fact that it opened its doors wide for representatives of European Parliaments, including the British House of Commons and House of Lords, the Italian Parliament, and the United States Congress. In addition, human rights organizations, religious associations and other dignitaries have visited the country, especially those areas where abuses of human rights were alleged to have taken place. As a manifestation of our tolerance, our country is currently hosting the Inter-Religion Dialogue Conference, in which Muslim and Christian scholars from different parts of the world are participating. This Conference is aimed at the enhancement of tolerance and peaceful coexistence between religions in any one geographical area. The purpose is also to prove that religion is not, as alleged by others, mere fanaticism. The Conference is based on the mutual conviction that ethics and morals are the best guides for individuals and peoples. In this regard, I would like to point out that the present Conference is the sequel of a previous one that was convened in Sudan two years ago, after which inter- religion dialogue continued inside and outside the Sudan. After this brief account, the Assembly may agree with me that reports of violations of human rights in the Sudan are nothing but malicious applications of political pressure to deter the Sudan from exercising its freedom to make its own decision and holding on to its cultural options. I need not state that those who continue to level baseless accusations against Sudan have not produced any evidence whatsoever to support their allegations. This, as I said earlier, seems to be the lot of all nations that choose their own way. 33 Those who make unfounded allegations that Sudan harbours terrorism have not produced a single shred of evidence to prove it. They never expected that Sudan would prove its innocence by capturing the most dangerous and most wanted terrorist in history: Carlos, the Jackal. Guided by standards of conduct that condemn violence and bloodshed, and in accordance with its adherence to international conventions and ethical ideals, Sudan arrested that terrorist. By virtue of our doctrine of transparency and openness, the doors of our country will remain wide open for whoever wishes to see for himself that no terrorism is harboured in the Sudan. The rebel movement, which was hatched outside Sudan, has kept changing its skin, with different programmes and ideologies, in order to gain support. Unfortunately, up to now the rebellion has received moral, material and military support from those who do not want the Sudan to enjoy its freedom of decision. The rebellion thus became a pliant tool in the futile attempts to subjugate the Sudan. The rebel leaders made themselves warlords, indifferent to the plight of their own people and the blood they continue to shed. Before the eyes of international community, the rebels commit the worst and atrocious kinds of violation of human rights: attacking and commandeering relief barges and trains, killing relief workers, looting villages and abducting men and children. Leaders of the rebellion are now launching a repugnant liquidation of their opponents in the ranks of the rebel movement. As proof of its defeat, very large numbers of returnees from the rebel movement came back home, convinced that it lacked a proper objective and that it had fallen prey to the influence of foreign powers. The crime of our time was that which was committed in the Kakuma Refugee Camp in Northern Kenya, which accommodates children who are Sudanese refugees. The Garang faction kidnapped 5,000 children at gunpoint to join their ranks, undeterred by conscience or respect for the international covenants that govern the status of refugees and provide for their protection. To our surprise, this crime was met with indifference from the international community, which did nothing to ensure the return of those children to their families. From this rostrum we call upon all international agencies, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the International Committee of the Red Cross to condemn this crime in the strongest possible terms and to work effectively and decisively to put an end to the plight of those children and to work to reunite them with their families in the Sudan as soon as is practicable. The relationship of the Sudan with the United Nations has continued to exist on a basis of constructive cooperation. Within the scope of such cooperation, productive developmental schemes and child-care projects have been set up, in addition to the humanitarian operations under the auspices of the Department of Humanitarian Affairs and the appointment of a special envoy who played an effective role in coordinating humanitarian efforts. The United Nations also successfully raised from the donor community resources equivalent to 60 per cent of the required finances of Operation Life Line for 1994. While we recall such positive achievements, we must also refer to certain negative aspects that accompanied that cooperation. In the field of relief distribution under Operation Life Line, statistics have confirmed that the greater portion of relief is directed to the rebel-held areas, which represent less than 10 per cent of the area of Southern Sudan, a situation which must be rectified. Also, while we appreciate the valuable role of non-governmental organizations working in the humanitarian field, it is relevant to underline the negative activities of some of them, which go so far as to violate the national sovereignty of Sudan, and provide support to the rebels, thus prolonging the war and adding to the suffering and distress of our people. As we look forward to the forthcoming celebrations of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we must recall that its inception was a product of a human awakening, following two destructive world wars that caused devastation to mankind and the environment, and crippled the progress of humanity. At a time when the use of military power was the sole means to expand political and economic influence, the establishment of the Organization represented a hope for humanity to overcome its destructive tendencies, which were spurred by the possession of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction, and to strive for the horizons of peace and development. It was saddening that the human awakening which culminated in the inception of the Organization was followed by a Cold War that continued until the 1990s. As a result, huge resources were drained away instead of being invested in the areas of peace and development. It is also saddening that the mentality of the Cold War still prevails in what is conceived as a clash of civilizations. 34 It has been wrongly believed that the disappearance of one enemy must be followed by the creation of a new one in an attempt to keep the cycle of war and conflict going. While the world witnesses the emergence of new States and the decline of apartheid, some are still trapped in that erroneous conception, which has given rise to various regional tensions, such as those in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Rwanda. Racial discrimination and xenophobia have increased in a number of western countries; the exodus of refugees and the flow of displaced persons continues. In the economic arena, and despite the world’s drive towards a free-market economy we have nevertheless witnessed a deterioration in economic and social infrastructures, especially in the developing countries. This deterioration is a direct result of the unfair practices and criteria that still plague international economic relations. Contributions by wealthier States and international financial institutions to assist developing countries have severely decreased; selective non-economic conditions are often imposed in dealing with the developing countries. Moreover, economic performance is no longer the criterion that is taken into account. Political considerations have become the sole basis of cooperation with the lending States and institutions. The problems of indebtedness and debt servicing continue to represent a huge burden on debtor States and in particular, the least developed countries. The debt problem remains unresolved because the creditors insist on imposing conditions that related more to the political stances of the debtor States and therefore, selectivity was resorted to in resolving the debt problem. We call upon this august body to adopt the resolutions and recommendations of the Non- Aligned Movement Ministerial Meeting held last August in Jakarta, Indonesia, on resolving the debt problems of developing countries. The partial remission of debts is the appropriate starting point to resolve the debt problem, instead of the re-scheduling process, which has already contributed to multiplying the amount of debt service in excess of the principal. The objective of establishing regional economic groupings is to contribute to the creation of a free flow of trade, investments and technology across national borders and the integrated trading groups. The scale of development in all countries, especially the developing countries, must be stepped up and the politics of protectionism practised by the major Powers vis-à-vis developing countries for political reasons must end. When we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we hope that the Organization will attain tangible achievements in eliminating the political, economic, social and humanitarian distortions that influence the international arena. Such achievements can be attained only by translating the principles and objectives of the Charter into real terms that reflect the values of justice, equality, and full participation by all Member States in creating a better future. In order to achieve such goals, the democratization of the United Nations and all its organs must be accomplished. According to the Charter, the General Assembly has a role to play on an equal footing with the Security Council in the maintenance of international peace and security, as well as in supervising the performance of other organs of the Organization. Just as we fully support the call for increasing the membership of the Security Council to ensure the equitable representation of all geographic and political groups in the Council, we also call for a reconsideration of geographical representation by allowing Africa, Asia and Latin America more opportunities to have permanent seats on the Council. We also call for the complete abolition of the veto power, as it contradicts all the principles of democracy and maintains the hegemony of the minority. Furthermore, we note a lack of transparency in the functioning of the Security Council, and believe that most Member States are often unable to follow its work. While we appreciate the efforts made to improve the performance of the Council, its persistent practice of holding intensive informal consultations marginalizes the role of the majority of Member States in the maintenance of international peace and security. Accordingly, rules of procedure regulating the Council’s procedures must be established to provide for a fair and objective guarantee of the existence of the required transparency. As regards the Council’s resolutions, it is regrettable that the practice of double standards and selectivity, as reflected in its resolutions and their implementation, has greatly affected its credibility, a problem which we hope will be resolved. The Economic and Social Council, as a guardian of economic and social rights should take more interest in maintaining the right balance between political and economic rights in its resolutions and decisions, which have become more inclined towards political rights in 35 spite of the Vienna Declaration, which considered the right to development a basic human right. The peace process has already started in the Middle East. In order for that process to reach the desired goals, the peace that is hoped for in the regional should be based on the pillars of justice and equality and the attainment by the Palestinian people of all their rights and the withdrawal from the territories occupied in 1967. The withdrawal from the Syrian Golan Heights and southern Lebanon should be carried out in full implementation of Security Council Resolution 425 (1978). The withdrawal from Jerusalem and all the other occupied Arab territories will remain critical in determining the real Israeli intention to establish a just and lasting peace. The recent conflict in the sisterly state of Yemen ended with the victory of constitutional legality, which preserved the unity of Yemen; this incident should lead us to stress the need to refrain from intervention in the internal affairs of other States that might find themselves in similar circumstances. With regard to Somalia, which faces enormous hurdles and internecine killings, we call upon all parties to heed the voice of reason and to work together for the attainment of a national reconciliation that would enable Somalia to resume the role destined for it at the regional and international levels. We must also pause here to consider the suffering of the Iraqi people, which is worsening as a result of the embargo imposed on it even though it has been admitted that Iraq has shown full cooperation in implementing the relevant Security Council resolutions. We call for the lifting of the sanctions imposed on Iraq as soon as possible and we urge the members of the Security Council to renew their consideration of this issue. As regards the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, we are surprised by the continuation of sanctions in spite of all the practical proposals made by the Jamahiriya, through the League of Arab states, in order to finalize its dispute with some Western countries over the Lockerbie incident in a reasonable manner. The aforementioned treatment of Libya lacks any legal and humanitarian justification. The Bosnian peoples’ tragedy continues to be a shameful blot the face of humanity. Factors of religious bias have greatly contributed to the creation and escalation of the Bosnian tragedy. As for the Security Council, it has pursued a clear policy of double standards in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovena. Not only did the Security Council reward the aggressors by granting them territories they do not own, but it has deprived the Bosnians of their legitimate right to self-defence as enshrined in the United Nations Charter, through an arms-embargo resolution. Bosnia and Herzegovena did not declare an intention to acquire the lands of others, but only wanted to defend itself and its people against aggression. As I conclude my statement, I should like to pose questions which, I believe, that are relevant to our preparations for celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and the International Decade of Tolerance. Are we prepared to abandon the unilateral approach to the tackling of problems of international relations? Are we ready to recognize now that this world accommodates us as distinct and diverse peoples and civilizations coexisting with one another? It is our opinion that fostering regional and international peace and security does not mean the omission of the underlying causes of tension. Equally, comprehensive development does not mean the entrenchment of the unfair economic and technological practices existing in today’s world. Furthermore, democracy in our opinion does not mean the imposition of the western model of democracy alone and omission of other peoples’ practices and civilizations in the field of governance and systems of government. Moreover, universality of sovereignty does not mean disregard for the national and geographic sovereignty of States. Also, the universality of human rights, which enjoys our respect and commitment, does not necessarily mean cancellation of the religious beliefs of peoples and their moral values. In brief, the principles and values adopted by any one society are not necessarily or definitely fit for application by all other societies. By applying such a unilateral perspective, we will deprive civilization of the benefits of diversity and from its productive legacy and we will as such deprive peoples of their right to opt for the political models and social conduct that are more compatible with their aspirations. Otherwise, we would only compound a new phase of undesired cultural conflicts and tensions. Let us turn a new leaf in international relations that would be founded on the rejection of conflict and confrontation, based on the principles of mutual respect and non-interference in the affairs of others, without extremism, bias or radicalism. 36 In conclusion, let our deeds speak louder than our words in building up the tolerance with which we prepare to commence the international decade, and let us extend this it to embrace all aspects of politics, thought, economics, culture, and religion. Mr. President, allow me first of all, on behalf of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, to convey to you our congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. We hope that under your presidency the General Assembly will bring its work to a fruitful conclusion. I wish to take this opportunity to express our appreciation of the activities and efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to strengthen the United Nations and enhance its responsibility and its role. Before I begin my statement, allow me also to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General, to the Secretariat of the United Nations, and to the specialized agencies and other organizations in the United Nations system for the deep condolences they expressed on the demise of our respected leader, Comrade Kim Il Sung, former President of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. May I also take this opportunity to extend our profound thanks to the Heads of State or Government, to the Governments and to the peoples of different countries for their messages of deep condolence and consolation as well as for their arrangement of services of mourning for our great leader. Our respected President Kim Il Sung devoted his efforts, throughout his life, to ensuring the prosperity of our motherland and to the freedom and happiness of its people and to world peace and the progress of humanity. Our leader’s passing is a very great loss and profound grief for our nation. He performed immortal exploits, which will go down in the annals of history through his tireless and energetic activities from his early years to the advanced age of over 80. Although the heart of our leader has ceased to beat, his great exploits will be remembered for ever. Our great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung will always be with us. Despite the greatest loss that our nation has suffered in its five-thousand-year-long history, our people have been able to turn their grief and sorrow into strength and courage and they have been able to rise up again, because they have another great leader, Comrade Kim Jong Il, who has inherited the ideology, the qualities of leadership and the lofty virtues of our paternal leader. Our dear leader Comrade Kim Jong Il is the supreme leader of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Supreme Commander of its revolutionary armed forces. A man of literary and military accomplishments, 5 of loyalty and filial piety, a man perfectly endowed with the qualities and traits of leadership, Comrade Kim Jong Il enjoys the greatest respect and the absolute confidence of our people, who have entrusted him with their destiny and their future. Our society is characterized by the close unity between the leader and the people in a socialist system centred upon the popular masses, a system which they have chosen and which they have built on their own. Our dear leader Comrade Kim Jong Il remains committed to his life-long mission of carrying forward and accomplishing the revolutionary cause pioneered by our fatherly leader through generations and he is energetically leading the overall affairs of our party, State and armed forces. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is firmly committed to fully carrying forward and further building on the accomplishments of the respected leader President Kim Il Sung, and the lifetime teachings of the leader remain the guideline for our activities. Our people will follow the wise leadership of Comrade Kim Jong Il, more firmly as they arm themselves with the Juche idea, the revolutionary idea of the respected leader Comrade Kim Il Sung, and defend, safeguard and glorify our socialism, which is their life and soul. The lifelong desire of the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung was the reunification of our country, and he worked energetically until the last minute of his life for its realization. National reunification is the patriotic cause related to the destiny of our nation and it is the supreme task of our nation and one that can be delayed no longer. It is indeed an intolerable tragedy that the division of our nation that began in the 1940s has lasted until today, at a time when humanity is preparing to usher in the twenty- first century. The Government and people of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, being desirous of national reunification, have long been exerting every effort to achieve reunification on the basis of the three principles of independence, peaceful reunification and national unity; the proposal for the establishment of a confederal State; and the Ten-Point Programme for Great Unity of the Whole Nation for the country’s reunification, serves as the common reunification programme of the nation. As there exist different ideologies and political systems in the north and the south of Korea, the establishment of a confederation based on the concept of one nation and one State, two systems and two governments, is the only way to achieve reunification on the basis of the principle of neither side conquering or being conquered by the other. This is the cardinal principle for reunification that corresponds to current reality existing in the Korean peninsula. The major stumbling-blocks to humanitarian exchanges, dialogue and contacts between the north and south are South Korea’s so-called “National Security Law”, which defines fellow countrymen as enemies, and the concrete wall, a symbol of division and confrontation. All the legal and physical barriers must be removed at an early date if we are to achieve our consistent goals of free travel and contacts, cooperation and exchanges between the north and the south and if we are to realize national unity. This is not only the unanimous demand of the entire Korean people and the world’s peoples but also the trend of the times. Our nation is firm in its will and intention to achieve national reunification in the 1990s. Our people will certainly open the door to national reunification by achieving the unity of all Korean nationals in the north and the south and abroad on the basis of national patriotism and a spirit of national independence, thereby promoting coexistence, co-prosperity and common interests, dispelling the fears of northward invasion and southward invasion and the fears of prevalence over communism and of communization and by working together to establish an independent, peaceful, neutral, reunified State transcending the differences in doctrines and views. An important point in defusing the tensions and bringing about peace on the Korean peninsula is to replace the Korean Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement and to establish a new peace arrangement to replace the current armistice mechanism. The Korean Armistice Agreement is a provisional step that envisages the suspension of any military actions between the belligerent parties and its subsequent conversion into a peace agreement. The Armistice Agreement states, in paragraph 60 of article IV, that, in order to help establish a lasting peace on the Korean peninsula, a political conference of both sides should be held at a higher level. However, such a political conference has yet to be convened and the unstable armistice has lasted so far. 6 Over the last four decades or so the Korean Armistice Agreement and the armistice mechanism have proved to be nominal and insubstantial, failing to prevent or restrain arms reinforcement from outside Korea, a military build-up and large-scale military exercises. Moreover, it is anomalous in every way that the Armistice Agreement signed in the 1950s should remain intact, even today when the cold war is over. These facts highlight the urgent need to replace the Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement and the existing armistice mechanism with a peace arrangement. In April this year the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea made a detailed proposal to the United States that the two countries should begin negotiations on an arrangement for a lasting peace to replace the outdated armistice system. It subsequently took the practical step of opening the representative office of the Korean People’s Army in Panmunjom as our new negotiating body. In late August this year the Chinese Government announced its decision to withdraw the delegation of the Chinese People’s Volunteers to the Military Armistice Commission, in view of the urgent need to substitute a new peace arrangement for the Korean Armistice Agreement, and in consideration of the current status of the malfunctioning Military Armistice Commission. These measures were taken as innovative, goodwill steps to make a breakthrough in establishing a new security arrangement on the Korean peninsula, taking into consideration the recognized international practices under which some countries terminated their belligerency after the Second World War and declared peaceful relationships. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea still remains, in legal terms, in a state of belligerency with the United Nations, of which it is a dignified Member State. That is because the cease-fire has lasted so long. At its thirtieth session the General Assembly, in 1975, adopted resolution 3390 B (XXX), urging the dismantling of the United Nations Command and the replacement of the Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement, but that resolution has not yet been implemented. The United Nations should give due attention to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s proposal for the establishment of a new peace arrangement and fulfil in good faith its own obligations in this regard, thus making amends for its unsavoury past vis-à-vis the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, a Member State of the United Nations, and implementing its own resolution. Another very important element in defusing tensions and establishing lasting peace on the Korean peninsula would be a fundamental resolution of the nuclear issue. The nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula is a political and military issue to be resolved bilaterally by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States, in view of its origin and its nature and substance. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has maintained its firm position that the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula should be resolved through dialogue and negotiations between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States. Thanks to the sincere and patient efforts of the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States have held several rounds of bilateral talks, leading to the recent Agreed Statement by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States, both of which are now working towards its implementation. This shows that if the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States work together to resolve the issue with trust in each other, and on the principle of impartiality and equality, they will bring about a good and fruitful outcome. To demonstrate the transparency of our nuclear activities, we took the bold decision to replace the existing system of graphite-moderated reactors with a system of light water reactors, at the sacrifice of our independent atomic power industry. However, certain forces, which are not happy with a possible resolution of the nuclear issue, are still resorting to pressure and threats against us, while peddling arguments about so-called special inspections — arguments that are highly provocative to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and have had a negative effect on the talks between it and the United States. This is nothing but an attempt on the part of these forces to wreck the talks by any possible means as they enter a new stage, and to make the situation on the Korean peninsula an extremely strained. The Korean people are strongly independence- minded, and independence means life for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. No threat or blackmail, no pressure or sanctions, will ever work on us. Our people will never beg for peace at the expense of our national dignity and sovereignty simply out of fear of war, and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will never sell out its supreme interests under pressure. The nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula is one to be resolved by the Democratic People’s Republic of 7 Korea and the United States, and no other party is entitled to intervene in this bilateral process. Intervention by any other party in their talks will only create difficulties and complications, and erect obstacles to the resolution of the issue, rather than help in its resolution in any way. Before the South Korean authorities talk about the “nuclear issue”, they should refrain from creating obstacles to the progress of the talks between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States, from encouraging confrontation between North and South and from aggravating the situation on the Korean peninsula. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States have now set out on the path of dialogue and negotiations and are moving towards implementing their agreements on the final objectives of the peaceful resolution of the nuclear issue and other outstanding issues. The world welcomes this process and looks forward to satisfactory results. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continue all its sincere efforts to resolve the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula and to achieve the region’s denuclearization. I would like to take this opportunity to express our profound thanks to State leaders, Governments and peoples for their support and encouragement for the principled position and sincere efforts of the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to resolve the nuclear issue. Humankind now has the shared task of building a new, free and peaceful world, free from domination and subjugation. In order to build the new world which humanity wants to see, we must eliminate, once and for all, the legacies of the discredited cold-war era and realize the democratization of international society so as to enable all countries and nations to exercise their sovereign rights on an equal basis in international forums. The most important element in this respect is the democratization of the United Nations. Among the Member States of the United Nations, there are, of course, big and small countries, and there are also old Member States and new Member States. However, there cannot be any senior countries or junior countries, and there cannot be any dominating countries or countries to be dominated by others. All United Nations Member States are equal Members of the United Nations, and all contribute jointly to world peace and security. There can be no place for individual Member States to hold privileged positions within the United Nations. Certain forces still try at international forums to trample international justice and the principle of impartiality underfoot. They are attempting to openly apply a double standard in dealing with the nuclear issue, human rights, terrorism and a number of other issues. They are bringing unreasonable pressure to bear upon those countries that they consider to be offending them, making slanders and false charges concerning the “nuclear threat”, “human rights violations” and “terrorist States”, while they simply wink at the wrongful actions of those countries considered to be obedient to their directives. These phenomena still continue undiminished. This is a clear indication that there still remain outdated concepts and the mentality of the cold-war era, when the strong-arm actions and high-handed behaviour of a few countries were allowed to go unchallenged. Such unfair and unreasonable acts and behaviour should no longer be allowed any place in international relations. Restructuring of the United Nations is important, in order to meet more actively the changed reality and new challenges. The non-aligned and other developing countries make up a majority of United Nations membership. For a fair and proper representation of their demands and interests in the resolution of major international issues, there is every reason why developing countries should become permanent members of the Security Council. We believe that, despite any need for enlarged membership of the Security Council, no permanent member seat should be given to any country that has still failed to wipe the slate clean with regard to its past as a nation defeated in the Second World War. Japan is now seeking permanent membership in the Security Council. It must first make a full and unambiguous apology, and provide compensation, for its past aggression and war crimes. This would be the proper behaviour for Japan. Disarmament — nuclear disarmament in particular — is another task that must be undertaken urgently. People throughout the Earth have long wanted to live in a peaceful world free from nuclear weapons, and they have been calling for the complete abolition of such weapons. However, the nuclear-weapon States are reluctant to scrap their nuclear arsenals totally, even in the current post-cold-war era. They still seek to perpetuate their monopoly in nuclear weaponry and to justify legally the continued possession of these weapons. This is anachronistic thinking, which only spurs the 8 nuclear-arms race and blocks progress in meaningful discussions on general disarmament. The extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is now a matter of worldwide interest and concern. The existing Treaty defines the rights and obligations of the nuclear-weapon States and of the non-nuclear-weapon States respectively on an unequal basis. If this Treaty is to be fair it should contain unconditional negative security assurances from the nuclear-weapon States to the non-nuclear-weapon States; a commitment by each nuclear-weapon State not to be the first to use nuclear weapons; provision for a total ban on the use of these weapons; and a timetable for the complete abolition of nuclear weapons. These would be the first steps towards rendering meaningless the existence of nuclear weapons on our planet. We are witnessing the disturbance of peace and security in some regions of the globe. No small number of countries are suffering severe calamities. It is indeed heartbreaking to see how national sovereignty is trampled underfoot and how regional conflicts and religious and ethnic conflicts continue unabated, only to escalate into wars. It is our view that disputes between countries and nations should be resolved through peaceful negotiations between the parties concerned, in the interests of those parties and for the sake of world peace. Social and economic development is an important matter directly related to international peace and security. It is common knowledge that social and economic development has been greatly hindered, and the worldwide phenomenon of the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer is becoming even more intense. A fair and just international economic order should be established to free the people of the developing countries from famine, disease and disasters and to narrow the widening gap between the developed and the developing countries. The United Nations should give priority to the development of the developing countries and strengthen its own role in their economic and social development. We hope that the Agenda for Development proposed by the Secretary-General will make a substantial contribution to the economic development of these countries. The summits of non-aligned countries and other world conferences have emphasized the need for the establishment of a new, fair international order and have adopted resolutions calling for practical measures to this end. The non-aligned and other developing countries are working hard to achieve South-South cooperation and to establish the South-South economic order, starting in the fields of food and agriculture, education and health, which are priority areas in the drive to accelerate social and economic development and to shake off economic poverty. The developed countries should pay due attention to this matter. They should move to resume dialogue with the developing countries and to join in establishing a fair international economic order, and should refrain from any actions that would hinder the economic development of the developing countries. People in many countries are currently engaged in a vigorous struggle to reject all foreign domination and interference, to defend national independence and sovereignty and to achieve national stability and prosperity. We express our solidarity with the Cambodian people, whose cause is the promotion of national reconciliation and unity and the country’s post-war rehabilitation. We fully support the peoples of the States members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations in their efforts to secure peace in their respective countries and common prosperity, and all other Asian peoples in their efforts to build a new, independent and prosperous Asia. We support the struggle of the Arab people for a fair and comprehensive solution of the Palestinian question and other Middle East problems, and we support Libya’s efforts to secure a peaceful resolution of the Lockerbie crisis through dialogue and negotiations, as well as the Arab League’s proposal in this regard. We are gratified by the establishment of the multiracial, democratic Government in South Africa following the eradication of racist rule, and we support the African peoples in their struggle to achieve the independent development of their respective countries despite their socio-economic difficulties. We express our firm solidarity with the just cause of the Cuban people, who are resolutely defending the sovereignty of their country and the gains of socialism, and with the struggle of the Latin American peoples for peace and prosperity in their countries. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Korean people will continue 9 their full support for and firm solidarity with all the peoples in the world in their struggle to oppose all forms of domination and subjugation, to build a new society and to promote the common cause of mankind. Independence, peace and friendship have been the constant cornerstone of the foreign policy of the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. The concept of independence, peace and friendship as the cornerstone of our foreign policy, established by our respected leader Comrade Kim Il Sung during his lifetime, reflects the unanimous desire and aspiration of our people and of peoples throughout the Earth to build a new, independent, peaceful and friendly world. It is the principle by which the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, in its external activities, is constantly guided. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continue to join with the world’s peoples who are seeking independence, will strengthen the ties of friendship and cooperation and will undertake in good faith its own duties in the interests of the common cause of mankind - the safeguarding of a just world peace and security and the building of a new, independent and prosperous world. The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will work sincerely with other delegations for success in the discussion of the items on the agenda of the current session of the General Assembly. I sincerely thank you, Sir, for the honour and opportunity of addressing this forum, and I extend my congratulations to you upon your election to lead the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. In this Hall, we see representatives of the entire world, a world in which there has been unprecedented global change. Our planet is growing more unified in all areas of life; economic and political integration is well under way. Nations, States and entire continents are drawing closer together. It is unfortunate that not all changes lead to progress. A new avalanche of problems confronts the United Nations and other international organizations, affecting rich and poor countries alike. I fully concur with Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali in his belief that today as never before our international community needs a new and forward-looking vision of our future. The time has long been ripe for us to discuss within the United Nations agenda the creation of a new and universal concept of development that would embrace peace, economic development, a clean environment, social justice and democratic governance as the five spokes supporting the wheel of humanity’s progress. It is clear, I believe, that our generation must take up the task of rediscovering the world and building within it new, mutually supportive relationships. One of the fundamental instruments at our disposal in this global task is the United Nations. On the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations, it is appropriate to recall the circumstances of its creation. It is important that we examine the strengths and weaknesses of the United Nations predecessor, the League of Nations. We must learn from this analysis so as to ensure that the United Nations shall not become a mere bystander to world events. It is true, of course, that the global situation today is fundamentally different from that which existed at the outbreak of the Second World War. We no longer suffer from the presence of dictatorial bandit States led by fanatics. But potential dangers exist today; they are multifaceted and have spread throughout the world. Together we must overcome racism, hatred of foreigners, fanatical nationalism and intolerance. If we do not, these demons, once having manifested themselves in men, communities or entire nations, could destroy the entire world. Today I would like to take note of a historic day for Lithuania, the Baltic States and all of Europe. It is all the more significant in that the General Assembly will discuss at this forty-ninth session, the complete withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territories of the Baltic States, as called for by a General Assembly resolution adopted at the forty-eighth session. On 31 August 1993 the withdrawal of the Russian military from Lithuania was completed, and exactly one year later the same historic event took place in Estonia and Latvia. That date also coincided with the withdrawal of Russian troops from Germany. This harmony of dates is more than merely symbolic: it marks the resolution of one more consequence of the Second World War. Guided by the principles of the United Nations Charter, Lithuania continues to broaden its international relations in a consistent manner. The goals and priorities of our economic, social and foreign policies remain unchanged. Lithuania seeks to secure democratic government and the principles of a free market, and at the same time to ensure the well-being of its people and the protection of minority rights. Lithuania is confronted with serious problems of a social character common to all young democracies. Yet at the same time, we must also recognize what has already been accomplished. Lithuania has a stable currency. Inflation is under control. The private sector already employs the majority of the work force. A vibrant and innovative market continues to grow. After four years of dramatic decline, the standard of living has been stabilized, although it is still rather low. An attractive legal environment has been ensured for foreign investment. We attach great value to the bilateral and multilateral assistance to the process of democracy-building and free- market reforms. Western interest in and attention to the restored democracies of Central Europe is vital not only for us, the recipients of such assistance, but for the future of a unified Europe. Today the future of the West can no longer be considered in isolation from developments in the East. We benefit from successful cooperation with Estonia and Latvia, our closest neighbours, with whom we share a common history and common fate. This year a permanent body, the Baltic Council of Ministers, was established. But as we look to the future, this will not be enough. If the Baltic countries are to become integrated members of Europe, then the establishment of a common visa and economic space can only be the first step of many. It is imperative that our foreign and defence policies be even more closely coordinated and that we harmonize our legislation in accordance with the norms of the European Union. I believe that all the countries of our region face new opportunities with the establishment of another cooperative body approximately one year ago: the Council of Baltic Sea States. This region has great potential. It is home to countries large and small, economically strong and less developed, that not so long ago were separated by the front lines of the cold war. The Baltic Sea States are unified by many common goals as well as problems. Sadly, in recent days we have also shared a common tragedy. I wish to express my deepest condolences to the Governments of our neighbouring countries and to the people whose loved ones perished in the catastrophe that befell the ferry M.S. Estonia. As I speak of our neighbours, I must also point to our relations with Belarus. We are heartened by the new possibilities of concluding a treaty on inter-State relations between our two countries. The signing of such a treaty will further secure the principle so valued by our nations: good-neighbourly relations. Lithuania attaches particular importance to its relations with Russia. As neighbours, we are very interested - perhaps even more so than other countries - in the success of the democratic and free-market reforms in that country. Russian relations with Lithuania and the other Baltic States today are a reflection of the current Russian position concerning the evolving European order, one in which old divisions are disappearing. We would like to hope that the new Russia will adhere to the principles of international law and will not obstruct the integration of the Baltic countries into European political, economic and security structures. This would be a clear signal that the democratic reforms undertaken in Russia are irreversible and that new lines of division will not be drawn in 2 Europe. It would reaffirm that Russia does not seek to isolate itself from the West and that, on the contrary, it trusts the West and seeks cooperation with it on an equal basis. Given Lithuania’s geopolitical situation and our economic opportunities, we can and are prepared to be a bridge between East and West. But I also want to emphasize that a future as a buffer State is completely unacceptable to us. Several days ago, in his address to the Assembly, Russian President Yeltsin stated that it was essential to reject the imposition of one’s will on weaker States and to build a new order, founded on law and morality. I express my hope that democratic Russia will adhere to these responsibilities and thus justify the growing trust of the international community in its future. One year ago I said from this podium that Lithuania would welcome steps toward the gradual demilitarization of the Kaliningrad district. Today I can state with satisfaction that Russia is reducing its military presence in that area. Lithuania, whose territory is traversed by transit to this Russian enclave, is not indifferent to the future of the Kaliningrad district and the Lithuanian minority residing there. Occupying a unique place on the map of Europe, this Russian territory demands special attention. It could become a stone in the foundation of security and an attractive economic partner or, under less favourable conditions, a source or even exporter of military threat and unrest. Lithuania proposes to examine issues pertaining to the Kaliningrad district as part of the round-table mechanism established by the European Stability Pact. We hope that all interested parties will give their support to this initiative. In concluding a fundamental bilateral Treaty with Poland this year, we have closed a chapter of our common history. From the start of the 1930s and the outbreak of conflict over Lithuania’s capital of Vilnius, relations between us were tainted by open confrontation, a state of affairs still remembered in the halls of the Palais des Nations in Geneva. I believe that this Treaty, which recognizes and confirms the present borders of our countries, can be considered the final rapprochement for Lithuania and Poland. As we greet the future, Lithuanians and Poles will be able to make their rightful contribution to a unifying Europe. We also strive to establish closer ties with other countries of Central Europe. We share not only a similar history, but also current problems and future goals. I am convinced that the convening of a meeting of the leaders of all Central European States in the very near future would benefit our countries. Such a conference would allow us to discuss our common reform experiences and our strategies for drawing closer to the European Union. Participation in multilateral and international forums provides new opportunities for Lithuania. An ever- increasing number of important political decisions are today being reached in international organizations. This is especially beneficial for small and medium-sized States. Lithuania sees the guarantee of its security, stability and well-being in joining European political, economic and security structures. Lithuania has always been an integral part of European civilization and culture. We have never lost our European heritage. Our recent 50year separation from the world did not sever our roots. Our goal remains membership in the European Union. We have already concluded a free-trade agreement with the Union that should come into affect next year. We also expect soon to sign an agreement on associate membership with the Union. Integration into the European Union cannot be considered in isolation from the broadening of qualitatively new ties with the Western European Union. Lithuania is an associate partner of this defence organization of ever-increasing importance. We believe the strengthening of the role of the Western European Union to be both logical and necessary. I am also convinced that the security and stability of my country and the region demand closer cooperation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Lithuania has presented its formal request for membership in that organization and will continue resolutely to seek the fulfilment of this goal. Lithuania’s participation in the Partnership for Peace programme opens new avenues for Lithuanian cooperation in efforts with Europe, the United States and Canada in their endeavours to prevent conflict and maintain peace. We firmly hope that our active participation and that of other Central European States in the Partnership programme will have a positive impact on the broadening of NATO. The expansion of NATO eastward would not pose a danger or threaten any European State. Russian fears of isolation, I believe, are groundless. We welcome Russia’s joining in the Partnership for Peace and hope that its 3 participation in the programme will contribute to the strengthening of mutual trust and stability. I should like to take note of several concerns of a more global character, the burden and urgency of which are particularly felt by the countries in transition. Our well-founded fears are heightened by the continuously growing gap between the developed and developing countries. Can we truly speak of a stable Europe when the hourly wages of a laborer in the European Union are equal to one day’s pay in Central Europe and, in some countries of Eastern Europe, to a month’s income? If this unfortunate tendency is allowed to continue, a wave of despondency and instability may overflow all barriers. The young democracies of Central and Eastern Europe are confronted by dangers posed by organized crime, illegal migration and trafficking in narcotics and, most horribly, in nuclear materials. These are the unfortunate negative consequences of our rejoining the world; without the necessary experience, they are difficult to address. We require coordinated and concrete assistance. We live not only in a time of great changes, but also in a world of great contrasts. As we celebrate the historic transformation of Europe, the stunning successes in the Middle East peace process and the end of apartheid in South Africa, we are nevertheless witnessing continuing tragedies and conflicts all over the world. The efforts of the international community, expressed through the United Nations, do not always achieve their desired results. The main reason for this is the inability to enact decisive measures. This is particularly evident when large countries are for any reason drawn into local conflicts, leading to a clash of their global interests. In such cases, the timely removal of built-up tensions becomes difficult. If we fail to avoid conflict, its containment and reduction become painful and long-term, often leading to the death of Blue Helmets in the execution of their peace mission. It is therefore crucial that we join forces to improve the conflict prevention mechanism. In this regard, we support the initiative of Germany and the Netherlands to improve cooperative relations between the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). Every State must contribute in a tangible way towards the creation of a peaceful and stable world. This must be the responsibility of everyone. It would be inappropriate for any country to seek to achieve its own interests or expand its sphere of influence under the guise of peace-keeping missions. There are criteria which must be followed in this regard - namely, the principles of the United Nations and the CSCE. These principles must, in my opinion, apply to all countries, including the Russian Federation. We cannot agree to allowing countries to carry out peace-keeping missions in any given geographical space without the consent of the parties to the conflict or the proper international mandate. I would like to emphasize my conviction that the principles of international law must be adhered to by all States, small and large. With the end of the cold war and the spread of democracy, old global divisions begin to disappear. It is vital that this continue. Those who believe that a new delineation of spheres of interest can bring stability to the world are mistaken. We who have felt the consequences of such divisions of influence can testify that this would only bring about new conflicts and upheaval. The United Nations has a particular significance for small and medium-sized States - in other words, the majority of countries. These States suffer first when instability and mutual distrust take root in the world. In an anarchic world, guided only by an ad hoc order, small States are the first to fall victim to larger interests. Small States experience with considerable pain the negative side-effects of global changes; they are the true front-line States. We have only to look at the front pages of the world’s newspapers. Bosnia, Rwanda, Tajikistan - all of these are small States struggling with tragic historical legacies. At the same time, if there exist guarantees for their security, small States develop rapidly and bring their own contributions to the international community. I firmly adhere to my remarks, made a year ago in this Hall, that 'the future of a more integrated world lies in democracy and the individuality of free nations.' (Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty- eighth Session, Plenary Meetings, 7th meeting, p. 14) This individuality and diversity do not have to divide us. Quite the opposite - they will enrich us. Lithuania became a Member of the United Nations three years ago. Until now, Lithuania was perhaps a passive recipient of the assistance and security this membership provided. Today Lithuania seeks to contribute actively to the undertakings of the international 4 community to strengthen security and stability throughout the world. Together with Estonia and Latvia, Lithuania is in the process of establishing a Baltic peace-keeping battalion which will be fully operational in the very near future. With the consent of the Lithuanian Parliament, a group of Lithuanian peace-keepers, serving within a larger Danish battalion, is today a part of the United Nations Protection Force stationed in Croatia. I take this opportunity to thank Denmark and the other countries that provide continuous assistance in the creation of Lithuanian and Baltic peace-keeping units. In the future, within its financial capabilities, Lithuania will continue to participate in similar United Nations peace-keeping and humanitarian missions. With the expansion of United Nations membership, the range of issues we are asked to discuss within the United Nations has also increased, imposing new responsibilities and new demands on the Organization. It is very important that the international community be properly represented in the Security Council. Lithuania therefore supports proposals to expand the membership of the Council, creating new permanent as well as non-permanent seats. One of the principle guarantees of international stability is respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms and their development and defence. It was, of course, within the framework of the United Nations that the first landmark international human rights documents were adopted. We believe the establishment of the office of High Commissioner for Human Rights to be a timely decision. The High Commissioner must become the overall coordinator of United Nations activities in the field of human rights. The world clearly needs an institution that can rapidly and effectively report human rights violations, particularly those which pose a danger of escalating into prolonged conflict. Such reporting would enhance the policy of preventive diplomacy. Lithuania continues along the difficult road of reform, maintaining a relatively high human development index, as reflected in the United Nations Development Programme’s 1994 report on human development, where it is in twenty- eighth place. We are well aware of the particular circumstances of this high ranking and of the fact that it is calculated with the use of rather distorted gross national product statistics. Unfortunately, the use of these distorted figures has led to excessive contributions to the United Nations and to a reduction in assistance provided. At the same time, Lithuania, like other Central European countries, has despite the odds achieved a high level of development in education, science and culture. This, too, is reflected in the human development index. This state of affairs has two aspects. As Lithuania cannot effectively finance these areas from its own resources, an overall decline is unavoidable. Another possibility remains: with the help of the United Nations and other organizations, the decline may be halted in the fields of education, science and culture. If the existing foundation is protected, recovery in the economic and social fields will follow more rapidly. Adopting this second solution would be less costly and more effective than allowing a collapse of the system. Lithuania, like other formerly central-command economies, has inherited environmentally damaging technologies. While we have witnessed political and economic change, the restoration of a balanced environment in our countries will take many years and require financial resources. As the possessor of a powerful nuclear energy facility, Lithuania is particularly concerned about nuclear safety. Here, I wish to express our particular gratitude to Sweden and other Western European partners for assistance they provide to increase the safety of our nuclear energy programme. Lithuania welcomes the increased attention that international environmental organizations are giving to the concerns of our region. I believe that combined efforts are capable of producing results much sooner than we first imagined. But, for this to occur, we must be assured that assistance provided by the United Nations will not be reduced. Of particular relevance to my country is the transfer of environmentally sound technology and know-how. An ecologically aware civilization must become the goal of our era. If the international community does not provide the necessary assistance and cooperation the situation in our region could change for the worse. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe receive a small portion of the technical assistance provided by the United Nations, but it is employed in our region effectively and with visible results. Here I should like to welcome the reforms initiated by the Secretary-General. We now see the first results of the restructuring, and we are satisfied with the progress. We are particularly encouraged by steps taken to increase 5 managerial and policy-making accountability within the Secretariat, as well as the simplification and streamlining of the decision-making machinery. Lithuania supports and pledges its full cooperation with the new Office of Internal Oversight. I would also draw attention to the fact that the United Nations Charter still contains certain outdated concepts concerning enemy States. These are a relic of the Second World War. Therefore, I believe Articles 53 and 107 of the Charter ought to be amended. One of this year’s most important international events was the International Conference on Population and Development held recently in Cairo. Next year the United Nations will continue the tradition of transcontinental forums. The world social Summit in Copenhagen will afford us an opportunity to put people’s concerns at the centre of social policy. This is of particular relevance to countries whose economies are in transition, where people carry the burden of rapid economic, social and political change. The World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing, will address the key question of how, in times of awesome change, men and women can work together for a peaceful world in which equality and harmony will be the norm and reality of life. At the beginning of my address I spoke of the wheel of human development being supported by five basic principles. Today we clearly face a time for decisions. Either that wheel will turn, slowly but surely, through the joint efforts of us all, taking us towards ever higher plains of progress, or it will stop turning, and if it stops it will inevitably begin to roll backwards - to chaos and barbarity. As humanity crosses into a new millennium, we must not allow the wheel to stop turning. This demands the collective action of all States and peoples. That is why we must always remind ourselves that no organization in the world today can equal the authority, longevity, dynamism and vitality of the United Nations. That which divided nations, States or continents cannot achieve alone they can and will achieve together as the United Nations. I am convinced of this, as there is no alternative. I warmly congratulate you, Your Excellency Minister Essy, on your election as President of the General Assembly at this forty-ninth session. Australia is very pleased to serve in the Assembly under your presidency and looks forward to relying on your wisdom and your experience as you preside over our deliberations. The last year has provided its full measure of challenges for the United Nations. The hopes for a new era of peace, after the decades of sterile confrontation between the super-Powers, seem not much closer to being realized. In Southern Africa and the Middle East, there have been remarkable advances in solving some of the world's most intractable problems, but they stand in contrast to the nightmarish conflicts of Bosnia, Somalia and Rwanda. These are only the latest, and most prominent, of a long string of deadly conflicts within State borders, tearing existing States apart and far exceeding the threats to peace posed by conflict between States. These intra-State conflicts have been marked by extreme savagery, each day offering new evidence of how cruel and dangerous a place the world remains for so many of its people. The combined impact of a number of these conflicts has had a corrosive effect on the standing of the United Nations. Pictures of Blue Helmets standing by, unable to prevent conflict and impotent to save life, have become a media cliche. The role that the United Nations system has continued to play in its economic, social and humanitarian work, in responding to the 'silent emergencies' of poverty and deprivation, has been overshadowed by the public image of an organization failing to meet its responsibilities and unequal to the challenges. Some of this imagery is deeply unfair, failing to take account of the innumerable constraints under which the United Nations operates - and in particular failing to acknowledge that, at the end of the day, the United Nations can do no more than what its Member States allow it to do, or give it the resources to do. But the underlying reality is that the United Nations, and we Member States that make it up, have not yet developed a clear and confident sense of the United Nations own role in the new environment with which we are confronted - where the most common source of conflict is no longer disputes between States, but explosive conflict within States, more often than not expressed in the form of competing ethno-nationalist or religious claims. Of course ethnic or religious difference is not, by itself, a recipe for conflict within States. Australia is just one example, among many, of a highly successful multi-ethnic, multicultural society in which tolerance and peace prevail. For ethnic or religious differences or competing nationalist aspirations to deteriorate into deadly conflict, something more is necessary. And almost invariably that something has been a failure of Governments to deliver basic needs and to satisfy the most basic aspirations of their citizens. In almost every case of major intra-State conflict of recent times, from the former Soviet republics to Rwanda, ethnic and religious conflict has been associated with declining per capita gross national product, the rise of demagogic politics, and the collapse of effective, responsible government. All this means that it is no longer possible, in the post-cold-war era, for the international community simply to ignore, as it largely did in the past, conflict occurring within State borders which does not significantly impact on other States. The compartmentalization which existed through the cold war years - in which peace and security issues, development issues, and human rights and justice issues were treated as being in completely different conceptual and institutional boxes - no longer seems adequate to deal with the real world distress that so many people are suffering. Basic economic needs, let alone the needs of individuals and groups for dignity and liberty, cannot begin to be met in environments where nobody's personal security can be guaranteed. And that means, in turn, that the international community cannot simply turn away from being involved in protecting human security in many of those situations which might previously have been regarded as wholly internal in character. This truth has, of course, already been recognized to the extent that the United Nations has become involved in essentially intra-State conflicts in Bosnia, Somalia, Rwanda and Haiti. But for the most part that involvement has been hesitant, half-hearted, lacking in confidence, worried about its rationale, too little, and too late. We have now to reach out boldly and try to recapture some of the original vision built into the stated aims of the Charter. We have to reintegrate the relationship among the three basic objectives of peace, meeting the need for security; development, meeting economic needs; and human rights and justice, meeting the needs for individual and group dignity and liberty. The distinction between peace and security on the one hand and development on the other has too often been a matter for sterile and unhelpful debate, with attempts to trade off one for the other as key goals for the United Nations. Any viable modern concept of international peace, let alone peace within States, must recognize that the two are indissolubly bound up with each other: there can be no sustainable peace without development, and no development without peace. In this context, Australia warmly welcomes the Secretary-General's efforts in producing An Agenda for Development which, following on as it does from An Agenda for Peace, fully recognizes the relationship between peace and development, acknowledging that equitable development eradicates many of the socio-political conditions in which threats to peace breed. It places an entirely appropriate emphasis on individual human beings as the end object and beneficiaries of our developmental efforts. This concept of course, in various guises, lies behind most of the international community's key ideas about development in recent years, including 'adjustment with a human face', 'human development' and, most recently, 'human security'. I must also applaud the focus which the Secretary-General has placed on practical international cooperation for global human security, for example in the areas of emergency humanitarian assistance, effective governance and all the social issues which form the agenda of the world social summit. A more integrated effort will clearly be required of the United Nations system if the objectives set out in An Agenda for Development are to be achieved. It is imperative that we improve the system's ability to develop and implement social and economic development programmes in a more coordinated and coherent manner, including by finding ways to allow the Bretton Woods institutions and United Nations bodies to work in closer harmony. An example of a more systematic approach that the United Nations system might be able to adopt is the recent package of reforms undertaken by the Economic and Social Council. The new approach to operational activities, and the joint programme which the Economic and Social Council agreed to earlier this year to tackle the health and development impacts of the HIV/AIDS pandemic, demonstrate the achievements that are possible through such reform. But more will be required than this, including changes in the senior decision-making structure of the United Nations Secretariat. Considerable reform in the intergovernmental elements of the United Nations system has been achieved and is being worked out, but the same is not true of the Secretariat itself. Notwithstanding some welcome recent changes, including in particular the designation by the Secretary-General of a special adviser on operational activities, I believe that there continues to be a strong case for creating a new working collegiate executive of four Deputy Secretary-Generals to work with the Secretary-General - responsible respectively for economic and social affairs, peace and security affairs, humanitarian affairs and administration and management. A key source of threats to national and international security lies in unsustainable patterns of consumption and exploitation of resources. High population growth and competition for resources have been contributing factors in several of the recent crises involving the United Nations, including Rwanda and Somalia, and competition over scarce water resources is a potential cause of conflict in a number of regions. Such threats demonstrate how important it is, in security terms, for the United Nations to strengthen its ability to deal with development issues. The international community has developed a significant body of international laws, norms, agreements and arrangements for the rational and cooperative management of scarce resources. The United Nations system needs to ensure that it takes timely, effective and coordinated action to help implement this framework and the programmes for action agreed on at recent global conferences. The outcome of last month's Cairo Conference has provided a blueprint to address problems of population and development, acknowledging the central role of women in the development process. For its part, the Commission on Sustainable Development must develop a genuine capacity to monitor the implementation of Agenda 21, using its political influence to bring about an observable difference in approaches to environment and development. We also attach particular importance to early implementation of the Programme of Action adopted at the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in Barbados in May this year. No less important has been the entry into force of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. The adoption in June 1994 of the new Agreement implementing Part XI of the Convention secures a widely accepted legal order for the world's oceans, and provides, in effect, a common language for interaction between States on matters affecting two thirds of the world's surface. From the outset of the establishment of the United Nations, the international community has acknowledged human rights as a central and legitimate subject of international attention. For many years, however, and notwithstanding the system of international human rights treaties, this attention carried with it the ideological baggage of the cold war and was too often marked by confrontation and recrimination. In recent years the international community has begun to develop more cooperative and potentially more effective ways of promoting better observance of human rights standards. These include the creation of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, the promotion of national and regional human rights bodies and improved technical assistance. They also include a welcome reaffirmation in Vienna last year of the indivisibility of all human rights - economic, social and cultural rights as well as civil and political rights - in developing a base for positive change. And they include the establishment of the International Criminal Tribunal to try violations of humanitarian law in the former Yugoslavia. A further important specific step that Australia believes should be taken in this direction is the creation of a permanent international criminal court, to deal with gross violations of international criminal law wherever they might occur. Human rights observance has its own profound significance for peace and security. The drafters of the Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights recognized this connection. The international community has clear obligations under the Charter to protect basic human rights, and the most basic freedom of all - the right to life - is directly dependent on the maintenance of peace. We must be prepared to accept a wider application of the notion of security as it appears in the Charter, recognizing that security in the post-cold-war era has as much to do with the protection of individuals - guaranteeing human security - as it has to do with State security - the defence of national borders. Human security, in this view, is as much if not more threatened by intra-State conflict as it is by conflict between States, and intra-State conflict is as much a concern of the United Nations as is international conflict. The experience of the last few years underlines the lesson that a State whose Government systematically disregards human rights, ignores the rule of law and fails to strive for equitable development and distributive justice is a State showing clear signs of heading towards breakdown and civil strife. To try to anticipate with appropriate preventive strategies that breakdown and conflict is, for the United Nations system, not to go beyond its Charter mandate, but to fully realize it. The international community has traditionally talked about security in almost wholly military terms. In a United Nations context, collective security has meant Member States renouncing the use of force against each other and agreeing to come to the aid of a Member when it is attacked. Even the more recent, and very welcome, focus on the concept of common security has been premised on the idea that States will be more secure militarily with defence strategies that are aimed at building security with others rather than against others. If the international community is to respond fully and effectively to the new challenges of the post-cold-war era, this perspective has to be broadened. One way to do that is to talk, as many are now doing, in terms of comprehensive security, which conveys the important idea that security is multidimensional in character, demanding attention not only to political and diplomatic disputes but to economic underdevelopment, trade disputes, human- rights abuses and the like. But Australia's preference - as I spelled out last year in addressing this Assembly, when I launched the so- called Blue Book, Cooperating for Peace - is to describe our shared objective as cooperative security. The term cooperative security is designed to embrace and capture the essence of all those three other ideas: collective, common and comprehensive security. It is designed to shift the focus away from traditional, defensive, State-centred thinking, and at the same time to convey the flavour of consultation rather than confrontation, reassurance rather than deterrence, transparency rather than secrecy, prevention rather than correction, and interdependence rather than unilateralism. Cooperative security in practice means a whole range of different strategies designed both to prevent and to resolve conflict, certainly including the traditional United Nations roles of peace-keeping and peace enforcement. But the strategies that I want particularly to emphasize today are those at the preventive end of the response spectrum, in particular peace-building and preventive diplomacy. As the idea of peace building has been developed by the Secretary General in An Agenda for Peace and in An Agenda for Development, it has largely been restricted to the situations of post-conflict economic and institutional restoration within countries. Australia's view is that while that is a very important element of the idea it is unduly restrictive, and that the concept of peace-building should assume a much more prominent place in our thinking about the international community's role and responsibilities. We see peace-building as describing the whole range of strategies designed to address basic and underlying causes of disputes and conflicts: strategies aimed at ensuring that they do not arise in the first place, or that if they do arise, they do not subsequently recur. Those strategies are applicable at both intra-State and international levels. At the international level we are talking essentially about various regimes and arrangements designed to minimize threats to security, to promote confidence and trust and to create frameworks for dialogue and cooperation, especially through arms control and disarmament treaties; legal regimes such as those on maritime passage and the status of refugees; dispute- resolution mechanisms such as the International Court of Justice; and multilateral dialogue forums, such as the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) or the new regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN). At the in-country level, peace- building essentially involves strategies to encourage economic development, ensure the observance of human rights, broadly defined, and to facilitate good governance. So perceived, peace-building lies right at the interface between the United Nations agendas for peace and for development. Peace-building activity is already occurring in a great many ways and in a great many places. The attention being given to environment, resource and population issues, the higher profile being accorded to human-rights protection and the significant progress being made on many disarmament issues are all manifestations of this at the general international level. And more attention is being given to democratization and institution-building strategies, as well as economic ones, for particular countries where effective governance has broken down, or seems about to. What is really necessary is that more of this activity be integrated and coordinated within the United Nations system, that activities now being pursued in isolation and without any overriding sense of common purpose be better linked together. If we are to get peace, development and human rights objectives better synchronized, then some institutional changes are necessary. A good start may be to vest responsibility for developing and coordinating peace- building strategies in the position of deputy secretary-general for humanitarian affairs, a position which I suggested earlier should be created. Whatever the achievability of peace-building international regimes in other areas, the end of the cold war has certainly opened up for the international community exciting new possibilities to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and destabilizing conventional-arms races. There is now, for example, an historic opportunity to conclude a comprehensive test-ban treaty. The decision by most of the nuclear-weapon States to maintain moratoriums on testing has made a major contribution to an improved negotiating atmosphere in the Conference on Disarmament. Australia very much hopes that the People's Republic of China will play its part in bringing those negotiations to a conclusion by likewise abstaining from further tests. Agreement on a comprehensive test ban will also have a significant impact on the achievement of nuclear disarmament, and especially nuclear non-proliferation, objectives. Australia urges all members of the Conference on Disarmament to seize this opportunity, which may not present itself again, to conclude the test-ban treaty as soon as possible. A further vital contribution to nuclear disarmament would be made by the negotiation of a cut-off convention. Australia hopes that all members of the Conference on Disarmament will support the efforts of the Canadian coordinator and agree to a negotiating mandate by the beginning of the 1995 session. Underlying all the efforts by the international community over the past 25 years to stem the spread of nuclear weapons has been the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). The NPT remains the cornerstone of international efforts to prevent nuclear proliferation. Its success is reflected in this phenomenon: the general expectation in the 1960s was that the world would have as many as 25 nuclear-weapon States by the 1980s, but instead, 160 countries have now acceded to the NPT as non-nuclear-weapon States, leaving only a handful outside the Treaty framework. The peaceful-use assurances derived from the Treaty and from the safeguards regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency have laid the foundation for very valuable international cooperation in fields such as nuclear power generation, nuclear medicine and agricultural and scientific applications of nuclear energy. In addition, the NPT incorporates the only commitment from the five nuclear-weapon States to complete nuclear disarmament. The cause of complete nuclear disarmament, which Australia fully supports, is moving in the right direction, but it is clear that more needs to be done by the nuclear- weapon States if the pace is to be maintained. A decision to be made on extending the Treaty at the NPT Review Conference next year will allow us to secure its benefits in perpetuity. This is an opportunity we must grasp to shape a world in which our collective commitment to nuclear non-proliferation, and to a world free of nuclear weapons, can be realized. Indefinite extension of the Treaty will create an environment in which the pressures for continued nuclear disarmament will be maximized, in which nuclear proliferation will best be prevented, in which trade and cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy can best be maintained, and in which the goal of universal membership of the Treaty can best be reached. The pace of chemical- and biological-weapons disarmament continues to be encouraging. Progress is being made in preparing for implementation of the chemical-weapons Convention, and the recent Special Conference's decision to develop verification measures to strengthen the biological-weapons Convention is also very welcome. All members of the global community will benefit, in both security and trade and development terms, from the bans on these entire categories of weapons of mass destruction which will be put in place by the effective operation of both these Treaties. In our efforts to prevent the further spread of weapons of mass destruction, we should not lose sight of the need to control conventional weaponry. Conventional weapons continue to be responsible for the overwhelming majority of the fatalities and casualties in contemporary armed conflict. In this area, the United Nations has taken an important first step in creating the Register of Conventional Arms, although I must note Australia's disappointment at the failure of its Expert Group to agree to expand the Register beyond transfers to cover productions and holdings. It is, however, most important that all States support this initial international exercise in the transparency of conventional weaponry by providing as much information as possible in their returns. There is also a compelling need to strengthen the inhumane weapons Convention and, in particular, to extend further control over the use of, and trade in, land-mines, given the appalling and indiscriminate injuries caused to civilian populations often long after conflicts cease. One of the most crucial elements in any functioning system of cooperative security is an effective capacity for preventive diplomacy. Australia is convinced that the United Nations can and should do more in this respect to prevent disputes escalating into armed conflict, and to this effect we propose to introduce a draft resolution on enhancing preventive diplomacy at the current session of the General Assembly. We believe that there is widespread support for the United Nations to build stronger preventive diplomacy machinery and to develop the capacity foreseen by its founders and articulated in Article 33 to operate as an active agent in the peaceful settlement of disputes. The Organization would be able to operate more effectively in this area if it gave its staff additional skills in dispute resolution and conflict management. We commend its efforts to do so through the fellowship course of the United Nations Institute for Training and Research and we will continue to provide our backing for that training. We propose that the United Nations develop a dispute resolution service within its Secretariat. We advocate strengthening the Department of Political Affairs and increasing coordination, information-sharing and early- warning capacity among and between the various elements of the United Nations system. Greater use should also be made of the resources of Member States and stronger linkages forged with regional security arrangements. Such regional organizations and arrangements themselves can play a most useful role. We should not have unrealistic expectations of them because most cannot match the capacity of global bodies to marshal resources for peace-building or, at the other end of the scale, for military responses to crises. They nevertheless offer a way of bringing together the parties to disputes in a constructive and non-confrontational framework. We welcome recent developments to strengthen regional approaches, in particular the recent inaugural meeting of the Regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, with its evident willingness to develop preventive diplomacy in the Asia-Pacific region. We hope that others will share our interest in exploring the scope for establishing regional peace and security resource centres - to advance these objectives under the banner of regional organizations or the United Nations itself, or both. We welcome the steps taken by the United Nations Secretary-General to strengthen the United Nations links with regional organizations. In relation to one such important organization in Australia's own part of the world, we welcome the strong support given by Member States for the application made by the South Pacific Forum for Observer status in the General Assembly, itself a response to the Secretary-General's invitation to consider ways of further improving the coordination of the efforts of regional bodies with those of the United Nations. Australia also welcomes the regional peace-keeping exercise under way to assist Papua New Guinea achieve a peaceful resolution of the situation in Bougainville, and the Secretary-General's expression of support for that exercise. There is no use talking about reintegrating the United Nations or reshaping its responsibilities unless the resources are there to carry out these responsibilities. The central responsibility of Member States in this respect is to set to rights the Organization's current financial problems. Australia urges, in the strongest terms we can, all Member States to pay their assessed contributions in full and on time as a matter of obligation under the Charter. We believe that the United Nations should look carefully at strengthening measures to encourage the prompt payment of contributions. We could, for example, explore the possibility of charging interest on overdue payments or applying Article 19 of the Charter to provide for only a 24- month grace period before voting rights are lost. We believe also that present budgetary systems could well be improved, in particular those involved with the financing of peace-keeping operations. We hope that, at a minimum, this General Assembly will be able to agree on some practical steps to move towards a sounder basis for such funding. Modern management practices, including a personnel policy more clearly based on merit, need to be adopted. Measures such as these, while valuable, are unlikely to be sufficient in themselves to meet the financial demands which will be placed on the United Nations by its new agenda. The time has come to look at more innovative approaches to raising funds. One possibility which should be examined more seriously than hitherto, notwithstanding the complexities and sensitivities involved, is the application of levies on certain kinds of international transactions, such as air travel or foreign exchange, the capacity to carry on which depends on the existence of stability between States, to which the United Nations in turn makes a major contribution. An international levy on such transactions would be an equitable way of putting a price on an important public good. And the amounts involved are very large. The total value of global foreign exchange turnover, for example, is expected to amount to over $300 trillion next year. A levy on these transactions of only 0.01 per cent, if it could be collected, would yield over $30 billion. A flat-rate $10 added to the price of air tickets for each international sector travelled would yield $3 billion, nearly enough to cover all United Nations peace-keeping activities last year. Whatever the funding strategy adopted, the financial burden on the United Nations system and the international community could be greatly reduced by putting a greater emphasis on preventive approaches to problem solving. It is very clear that prevention is far more cost-effective in the longer term than our current pattern of responding to problems, if at all, only after crisis points have been reached. If the United Nations decision-making bodies are to have legitimacy and guaranteed international support in responding to the range of new and difficult situations with which the international community is now being confronted - particularly deadly conflicts and massive human rights violations occurring within States - they must be representative of the broad range of interests and perspectives of United Nations Member States. This is a key reason why enlargement of the Security Council's membership is a pressing concern for this General Assembly. It should be said, at the same time, that the Security Council's legitimacy will ultimately depend, not just on its representativeness, but upon the quality of its performance, and in that context it will be very important that the Assembly apply very rigorously the criteria and qualifications for Security Council membership elaborated in Article 23 of the Charter. The model that would most simply meet the legitimate aspirations of the largest States excluded at present from permanent membership of the Security Council - including Japan and Germany, whose claims we support - would involve the creation of five new permanent membership seats. Assuming the continuation of the existing regional groups, three new permanent members would come from Africa and Asia, one from the Western European and Other States Group, and one from Latin America and the Caribbean. Australia would prefer not to extend the veto to any new permanent member. At the same time, we believe it would be appropriate slightly to dilute the veto power of the existing five permanent members by requiring two from their number to concur in its exercise. If - as seems not impossible - agreement on a simple model of this kind proves not easily reachable, it may be worth giving consideration to a more complex alternative model. We have in mind one which would no doubt in practice guarantee effective permanency for the largest States currently excluded from the Council, including Japan and Germany. But it would at the same time give a greater degree of flexibility to the Council's structure and greater opportunities for the recognition of several other countries which have made a major contribution to the Organization. It might, for those reasons, be a model capable of commanding more widespread support. This alternative model would involve, in addition to the five existing permanent members - whose veto power would again be slightly diluted, as already outlined - the creation of eight quasi-permanent seats allocated among regional groups for which consecutive re-election would be possible, together with 10 rotating non-permanent seats as at present. It would make abundant sense, in our view, for the existing regional groups to be at the same time modified to reflect post-cold-war realities. A suggested way in which these 23 seats might be distributed among such a new set of regional groups is set out in the table attached to the circulated text of this statement; that table also sets out the way in which the seats might be distributed among the existing groups. On this model, the question which States became quasi-permanent members and how long they remained on the Council in that capacity would be a matter for determination by the regional group in question. Consequential amendments would be required to Article 23 and Article 108 of the Charter, and the opportunity should, of course, be taken at the same time to remove the anachronistic enemy States clauses. An accompanying General Assembly resolution could elaborate any new regional-group arrangements. It is, of course, the case that any change to Security Council membership is fraught with complexity and difficulty. But if we are ever to move from the stage of generalized discussion to concrete negotiations, it is necessary to put some quite specific and comprehensive proposals on the table. I certainly do not suggest that the models I have just advanced are the only possible approaches, but I do strongly suggest that the time is now ripe for us to commence such negotiation. I believe that others share our determination to move in a spirit of good will and conscientiousness to see to it that the United Nations of the next 50 years is soundly built; and an expanded, newly legitimized Security Council is a crucial foundation in this respect. Australia wants the United Nations, over the next 50 years, to be an active and effective agent for the peaceful settlement of disputes. We want it to be a catalyst for international peace-building, working to strengthen international law, control and reverse arms races, promote confidence and dialogue between States and address underlying causes of instability, including internal conflict. We want the United Nations to promote, in more effective coordination with the major international economic and financial institutions, equitable and sustainable development and to coordinate responses to humanitarian crises. We want it to emerge even more strongly as a promoter of universal standards of human rights and their respect by Governments. We want the United Nations to pursue its objectives of peace, development and human rights in an integrated, coordinated way, with these objectives complementing, rather than being in competition with, each other. And we want it to be an Organization assured of the wholehearted backing of its Member States and provided by them with all the financial resources it requires to meet its obligations. In short, we want the United Nations to become the Organization which was envisaged in its Charter. One of the priority objectives of our candidacy for election to the Security Council for 1997-1998 is to help in the building of such a United Nations. We believe we have valuable contributions to bring to this task, and we look forward to working closely with all our fellow Members in the shaping of a United Nations fully capable of meeting the needs and expectations of all of us in the international community over the next 50 years. Allow me to extend to Mr. Amara Essy my delegation’s warmest congratulations upon his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. He may rest assured that the Hungarian delegation stands ready to assist him in carrying out his responsible tasks. Sincere words of recognition should also go to Ambassador Insanally, the outgoing President, for the outstanding and forward-looking manner in which he conducted the work of the previous session of the Assembly. As a representative of the newly elected coalition Government of the Republic of Hungary, may I be permitted first to assure this Assembly of nations that in its foreign policy Hungary will continue to serve the cause of international peace and stability, with special regard to the Central European region. We are committed to further developing our political and economic transformation in order to consolidate democracy and stabilize the market economy in Hungary. Our foreign policy rests on three closely interrelated main pillars, which we treat on an equal footing. First, we are determined to promote the full integration of Hungary into the Euro-Atlantic institutions. Secondly, we seek genuine good-neighbourly relations with all the countries in our region, especially with countries bordering ours. And, thirdly, we advocate respect for human rights, with particular emphasis on the minority rights of the millions of Hungarians who live beyond our borders. All in all, we intend to conduct our foreign policy in a most pragmatic and realistic manner and will act accordingly in our bilateral relations and in multilateral forums as well. 10 On the threshold of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, and in the present post-cold-war era, mankind is facing enormous challenges. The euphoria we felt and the great expectations we entertained only yesterday, when a new and promising world seemed to be emerging, have now taken on a bitter quality. As the bipolar world was falling apart and freedom and democracy were sweeping across the globe we had to recognize some negative aspects of those fundamental changes, such as the outbreak of violent nationalism and ethnic hatred fed by economic and social tensions. The international community, and notably the United Nations, has proved sometimes unable - and on a number of occasions its Member States unwilling - to meet the dramatic challenges of our times. New and violent manifestations of intolerance, which caught the world unprepared, aggressive wars and bloody ethnic conflicts accompanied by crimes against humanity and the abhorrent practice of 'ethnic cleansing' are today unanimously considered issues that ought to have been tackled in a timely and resolute way. It is with deep regret that we note that the United Nations, together with other relevant international organizations, instead of preventing the outbreak of crises in a number of areas of the world, has, rather, been trying to react to them, either without the necessary determination or by belated action. Indisputably, the means available to the Organization for coming to grips with the many international problems were stretched far beyond existing capacities. We believe, however, that the time has come to take a good hard look at the role the United Nations is called upon to play and to devise new ways and means by which it can fulfil its raison d’être in our troubled contemporary world. We therefore reinforce our support for the Secretary- General’s Agenda for Peace and continue to regard it as a forward-oriented plan of action for the years to come. In this regard, we consider that special efforts should be made to resolve the problems facing United Nations peace-keeping operations, with a view to improving their efficiency and capability. In the event we are unable to find adequate answers to our failures and missed opportunities, we may well be on the verge of losing the precious benefits we have gained and the potential prospects that opened up at the end of the cold war for the international community, including the United Nations, to create a qualitatively new, cooperative world order. As has often been stated, we live in a time of great contrasts that are also reflected at the United Nations. We welcome the momentous results and encouraging progress in South Africa just outlined by His Excellency President Nelson Mandela, as well as those in the Middle East. The assumption of office by the first democratically elected President and Government of South Africa and its normalization of relations with its neighbours, the signing of the Declaration of Principles by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the beginning of its implementation, the breakthrough in relations between Jordan and Israel and the hopeful evolution of talks between Syria and Israel, are all truly historic achievements and bode well for the future. The forthcoming 1995 Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons will be an event of cardinal importance which can further enhance the aforesaid positive tendencies. Hungary is keenly interested in ensuring the indefinite and unconditional extension of the Treaty and is ready to contribute to achieving this important goal. Recent events have once again reinforced our conviction with regard to the critical significance of such an act. If the United Nations wants to live up to the promising processes, it must, first of all, adjust itself to the new realities. It would, therefore, do well to get rid of outdated, anachronistic resolutions which have nothing more to do with present-day developments. It must, however, be admitted that attempts to tackle crises in the former Yugoslavia, in Somalia, in Rwanda and elsewhere have not yielded conclusive evidence of the ability of the United Nations to find the right answers to major hotbeds of tension. Because of its geographical proximity, Hungary has followed with particularly grave concern the devastation and suffering across its southern borders, first and foremost in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Croatia. We have supported to the best of our abilities the efforts of the international community aimed at finding a just solution to that human drama. The basis for the solution of this unprecedented crisis in the heart of Europe exists. The principles of the United Nations Charter and those adopted by the International Conference on Yugoslavia are there. They include respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries, the inadmissibility of acquisition of territory by force, the elimination of the consequences of 'ethnic cleansing', the return of refugees and displaced persons and the protection of human rights, 11 including the rights of minorities. These principles should never be ignored if we are to reach a just and lasting settlement in Bosnia, Croatia and elsewhere. Hungary has a vital stake in the restoration of peace and international legality in the former Yugoslavia. The volatile situation of the sizeable Hungarian ethnic community in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), the interruption of traditionally close economic ties with our southern neighbours, the serious losses we have suffered as a consequence of the sanctions regime imposed by the Security Council on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, all inspire us towards an active involvement in the search for a durable and equitable settlement in those tortured lands. In achieving that goal we expect the international community to uphold the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and to enforce the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. We also expect that appropriate ways will be found in the course of post-conflict peace-building there to alleviate the burden of losses incurred as a result of the sanctions regime by the countries most directly affected, such as Hungary. Hungary is following with keen interest the encouraging process of the revitalization of the United Nations. In this respect, I wish to reaffirm that we attach particular importance to the question of the reform of the Security Council with a view to ensuring its transparency, representative character and effective functioning, in order to better reflect the realities of our contemporary world. In this context we fully concur with others in supporting permanent membership in the Security Council for Germany and Japan. Hungary welcomes the ever-growing recognition that in maintaining international peace and security regional organizations should be given a more decisive role. In our view, the time has come to work out the necessary arrangements whereby regional organizations can effectively contribute to conflict resolution, namely, preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping, peacemaking and post-conflict peace-building. We endorse the proposition that by involving the regional organizations under the umbrella of the United Nations, and in particular of the Security Council, in the safeguarding or restoration of international peace and security, our world can indeed be made a much safer place. We, for our part, are prepared to share in efforts at securing wider participatory action. This autumn Hungary is honoured to act as host in Budapest of the next Review Conference and summit meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). We expect the Conference and the summit meeting not only to contribute to the better functioning of this important regional arrangement but also to serve as a useful vehicle in the efforts towards a democratic and integrated Europe where rationalism may prevail over nationalism. Furthermore, we are convinced that success within the CSCE is not only beneficial to the peoples living in the CSCE region but that it can also underpin efforts at conflict prevention and crisis resolution in other parts of the world. In this context we believe that the realization of the Dutch-German proposal to establish a genuine and practical division of responsibilities between the CSCE and the United Nations in the settlement of conflicts within the CSCE region, while upholding the principles and provisions embodied in the relevant chapters of the United Nations Charter, could well be a major step forward. Following the Budapest Summit, when Hungary is to take over for a year the duties of the chairmanship-in-office of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), I personally intend to pay particular attention to the consolidation of mutually advantageous cooperation between the CSCE and the United Nations which is so promisingly unfolding. Promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms are a high priority of Hungary’s foreign policy. In this connection, I would like to recall that in the Vienna Declaration of the World Conference on Human Rights it was solemnly stated that the promotion and protection of all human rights is a legitimate concern of the international community. Consequently, we find it indispensable that, in this spirit, the United Nations should act in the defence of human rights, irrespective of where violations of those rights occur. In our world of interdependence and growing interaction, Hungary calls for the development by the United Nations of an integrated response-capacity to combat the repeated waves of human rights violations. We view with serious concern the alarming increases in the reported cases of gross violations of human rights, as well as the frequent occurrence of such violations in situations of internal armed conflicts or ethnic strife. These developments have serious repercussions affecting peace, security and stability in the given region and beyond. In this regard, we should be mindful of the requirements laid down in the Vienna Declaration for all Governments to promote and protect human rights in their own countries, regardless of their political, economic and 12 cultural structures. On the one hand, an open and active dialogue, simultaneously constructive and critical, needs to be established and sustained in order to promote the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. On the other hand, a stronger commitment to economic and social development in various areas of the world would considerably facilitate the observance of these universal values. By the same token, we believe that the United Nations has not yet exhausted the means available for the international protection of human rights. We urge the international community to seek new and innovative means and methods to safeguard the rights and freedoms of our fellow human beings, wherever they may live. We wish to see the United Nations embark in a timely manner - within the framework of preventive diplomacy - upon the road of international protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Rather than responding only to reported human rights violations, the United Nations should build effective preventive mechanisms into its activities whenever the need arises. The notion of preventive protection should also include adequate international monitoring. Following decisions of the competent organs of the United Nations, such as the Security Council or the Commission on Human Rights, civilian human rights monitors could be deployed if in any part of the world the human rights situation so warranted. Hungary, for its part, is prepared to participate with monitors in joint actions of the international community in this field. In these endeavours, we also count on the effective participation of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. The High Commissioner has had our full support ever since he assumed his office, and we pledge our cooperation in the carrying out of all aspects of his mandate. We would like to reiterate that adequate financing of the human rights activities of the United Nations should be ensured through the regular budget. I cannot conclude without mentioning the issue of sustainable development, with its many aspects covering industrial and agricultural development, trade, human resources, regional cooperation, protection of the environment, and so forth. Clearly, what is at stake here is our ability to tackle these global issues without delay. The growing sensitivity with regard to these questions cannot but be welcome. We consider the work of the United Nations Conference on Population and Development, held recently in Cairo, to be an important step in that direction at a time when contrasts between requirements of human development and limited resources are becoming more and more evident. In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm that Hungary continues to be a strong supporter of multilateralism. Nations are looking to this Organization for protection and assistance. We must not let them down in these critical times. In spite of failures, we should keep faith with the United Nations and meet the challenges which, in the final analysis, will determine mankind’s destiny in the new millennium. Let me express my great pleasure at seeing Mr. Amara Essy presiding over our deliberations. I am confident that, given his experience and skills, this session will contribute to the further enhancement of the role of the United Nations. Let me also thank the Secretary-General for the thoughtful and thorough review of the world situation, given in his annual report - this in addition, of course, to our thanks for his tireless work for the good of the Organization. I would like to follow the point made by our Dutch colleague regarding the increased responsibility of individual Member States for the success of this institution, let me say that the end of the cold war has been a source of and a sound reason for satisfaction throughout the entire world community. A series of 'velvet revolutions' in Central Europe, the dissolution of the USSR and remarkable events in South Africa and the Middle East have shaken the entire post-war geopolitical pattern of 'negative stability' - frozen enmity. As expected, the end of the East-West confrontation and the disappearance of competing blocs has proved beneficial to international relations. The planet has become a safer place. Yet the euphoria is fading, giving way to a sober evaluation of events. Indeed, have all the 'Berlin Walls' or 'Iron Curtains' been dismantled - especially economic barriers that separate countries on a global or regional scale? Is the 'peace dividend' actually being paid? Has the North-South development gap ceased to widen and to undermine the newly acquired, still fragile global stability? The old bipolar, confrontational world has gone. We are not divided anymore. But we are not united either. In fact, many problems, dormant or concealed until now, have surfaced with startling force: ethnic conflicts, nationalisms, religious intolerance. The 'cold war' may very well be replaced by a 'cold peace' or, even worse, by 'hot chaos'. Global cooperation will not come by itself. The United Nations is best placed to lead its Members in an effort to achieve it. However, are the nations ready for it? Is the United Nations properly equipped to cope with the task? The question that should be asked first is not what the United Nations could do for us, but what we - the Member States - should do to unite the nations. A contest between the two super-Powers no longer dictates the course of history. The international scene, both political and economic, has become pluralist, with medium-sized and small countries emerging as increasingly important actors. Previously, the role of these countries was, at best, that of a go-between or observer, rather than an active participant. Now they are becoming partners in the multi-country discourse. Multilateralism is becoming more important than ever. Multilateral arrangements in various domains provide both insurance of equal treatment and an opportunity to take part, to contribute. Multilateralism increases the freedom of action of individual States and the degree of their responsibility. Let me set forth briefly the way in which Poland, a medium-sized country, perceives its role and duty - I stress duty - as a partner in the international effort to bring about global cooperation, to build a united world. First, we develop friendly relations with neighbours. The best testimony in this regard is found in the treaties we have concluded with all our seven neighbours. We regard those treaties as a great common accomplishment by Poles, Belarusians, Czechs, Germans, Lithuanians, Russians, Slovaks and Ukrainians. It was not always easy to reach an agreement: hard diplomatic work, imagination and willingness to compromise were required, to say the least. But the result was very much worth the effort. The treaties constitute a solid block of durable rules based on international law, in a region of major importance for the security of the continent and the world at large. Secondly, we are active in developing regional cooperation. The Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and Poland have formed a non-binding structure known as the Visegrad group. It is not an organization; it has no permanent bodies, not even a secretariat - a true rarity for any international venture. The group did, however, manage to work out a Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA). Poland is also a partner in the Central European Initiative and the Council of the Baltic Sea States. Furthermore, we have recently reached out to our eastern neighbours with a number of proposals to enhance regional links. 24 Thirdly, we are impatiently and insistently striving to become members of institutions whose membership has been determined by the logic of the divided world. We all agree they must not remain exclusive. It is 'one Europe, one world' that lies behind Poland’s efforts to join the European Union, the Western European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). It was in this context that Poland responded with determination and confidence to the Partnership for Peace programme. By virtue of its history, size and vital interests, Poland wants to enter NATO not as a front-line State but, rather, as a country furthering cooperation. We do not want to create new divisions. On the contrary, we are striving to overcome the remnants of the past divisions which are still with us. It was also in this context that Poland entered into the association agreement with the European Union, and it is in this context that Poland is actively preparing for membership. It is our strong desire to take part in the process of integrating Europe so that it becomes more secure, cooperative and hospitable; and to participate in an effort to overcome the irrationalities of history - rivalry, imperial divisions and nationalistic stereotypes. Fourthly, Poland is a strong believer and a dedicated participant in interregional and global actions. We are in the forefront in promoting cooperation within the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). The CSCE is not only the symbol of the necessary bonds of security but also a forum for practical cooperation across three continents. We support the CSCE as a regional arrangement within Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. Poland is a time-tested participant in United Nations peace-keeping operations. Over 2,000 of our troops are there to uphold the ideas in the Charter, whenever called to duty by the Security Council. Poland, finally, is also active in other areas of international cooperation: in the economic, social, cultural, educational and health fields as well as in the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms as stipulated by Article 13 of the Charter. Medium- and small-sized States are potentially a great asset of the United Nations; it has not so far been sufficiently recognized, let alone utilized. States such as Poland can play a stabilizing role and exert an important beneficial influence on developments in their immediate and more distant neighbourhood, and tangibly contribute to global stability and security. In particular, they can be expected to become nuclei of regional integration as they should not be suspected of seeking to dominate or to impose their will on others. To act locally - that is, regionally - is practical and effective. Medium-sized countries in consensus with smaller States can, indeed, make a difference. However, we should not allow a loose constellation of separate villages to emerge. We need a global, united village. Therefore, we need a framework for subregional, regional and interregional cooperation and discipline to ensure coherence. This is of course the raison d’être of the United Nations. We are trying today to improve its operations. Let me here draw attention to two specific issues. First, the fundamental task for the United Nations is to maintain international peace and security. The role of the Security Council has been in recent years broadened by more frequent recourse to action under Chapter VII of the Charter. On the one hand, that allows for a fresh look at the security role of the United Nations, particularly in the context of countries which do not enjoy sound security guarantees. On the other hand, one cannot remain indifferent to the Council’s decisions in cases where sovereignty, democracy and human rights are violated, or access to humanitarian assistance is hindered. For this reason, Poland consistently makes an effort to respond to the Council’s calls for action, be it in the former Yugoslavia, Rwanda or, most recently, Haiti. Poland shares the view that the increase in the membership of the United Nations justifies the enlargement of the Council. There are different suggestions and ideas as to how this might best be done. The principal criterion continues, for us, to be preservation of the effectiveness of the Council. Enlargement should be accomplished on a consensus basis and as a package. The interests of all United Nations regional groups need to be respected in the process. A seat on the Council, permanent or not, cannot be considered a matter of prestige. Indeed, it implies increased responsibility and the ability to discharge it. The Council’s decisions involving peace-keeping and peace-enforcement measures, from sanctions to recourse to force, give rise to various risks and sacrifices by third countries. They include potential risk to the lives and health of the troops and financial losses for which so far, despite the provisions of Article 50, there is no adequate compensation. 25 The security of the peace-keepers is of the utmost importance. Work undertaken on a convention on the safety of United Nations peace-keeping personnel should be completed at the earliest date. There is also a need for active dialogue between members of the Security Council, the Secretary-General and troop-contributing States. Such dialogue should be a standard practice in the case of decisions which may affect the security of these troops. Poland shares the view that: first, all United Nations activities in the four fields - preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping, peacemaking and post-conflict peace-building - must be fully mandated and better planned, organized and financed; secondly, regional organizations should make a more significant contribution in the areas of preventive diplomacy and peace-keeping, but one fully consistent with the United Nations Charter; and, thirdly, a specific mandate is to be sought when peace-keeping troops need to use force beyond the requirements of self-defence. Disarmament is yet another dimension of a global effort to strengthen international peace and security. Mankind is no longer held hostage to nuclear confrontation; the nuclear arms race has been halted and, it is hoped, reversed. Post-cold-war cooperation between erstwhile adversaries has resulted in important nuclear disarmament accords. Poland is playing an active part in the ongoing multilateral negotiations at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva for a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty. Internationally verifiable, universally adhered to and effective, such a treaty would put in place yet another barrier to the spread of nuclear arms, which is in the vital security interests of each and every member of the family of nations. These interests would also be served by a non-discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons and other explosive devices. The window of opportunity is wide open. It must not be ignored. We warmly welcome the renewed interest and initiative on nuclear disarmament submitted yesterday to this Assembly by President Clinton and President Yeltsin. We believe that further reinforcement of the non-proliferation regime is imperative. We are alarmed by recent reports of illicit trafficking in nuclear materials across frontiers. This is a threat to international security and also a danger to innocent bystanders exposed to radiation. It also casts doubts on the efficiency and sufficiency of existing legal provisions and procedures. A thorough review of such provisions and procedures seems timely. The overriding national security interests of States would be served in particular by the universalization of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). We welcome the recent accessions to the NPT, especially by some of our newly independent neighbours. We fervently hope that Ukraine will soon follow suit. In this connection, I wish to recall that Poland firmly supports the unconditional and indefinite extension of the NPT. The forthcoming Conference to review the operation of the NPT and to decide on its extension should strengthen the regime. It will benefit the entire international community. Coming as an aftermath to both Hiroshima and Chernobyl, it would be the most fitting step to mark the fiftieth anniversary of the nuclear age. With the signing of the chemical weapons Convention, there is a prospect of finally eliminating another category of weapons of mass destruction. Poland is actively involved in the work of the Preparatory Commission for the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, and its ratification procedure is well advanced. In conclusion, I would say this: more power to the regions; more authority to the Security Council; more initiative and involvement on the part of medium-sized countries. These are, in our view, the cornerstones and objectives of the reform of the United Nations. Allow me now to address an issue to which Poland and a number of other countries attach particular importance. I am referring to the provisions of Article 107 and to parts of Article 53 of the Charter of the United Nations. I doubt that there is any delegation here that would not agree that they have become obsolete - a dead letter. For almost 50 years these provisions have not been officially invoked. Indeed, the States covered by this so-called 'enemy clause' have become not only an inseparable part of the democratic world but also a crucial element of the United Nations system. It is impossible to imagine how the Organization and its system could function without their political, economic and financial commitment. Poland, the victim of the Nazi aggression that started the Second World War, considers it its moral duty to take a lead in closing this chapter of history for all time. We believe that the time has come to part with transitional clauses born of the war, concerning States which were 26 then, 50 years ago, enemies, but which have now become partners in our common work for the United Nations. I formally propose the removal from the Charter of the United Nations of the clauses referring to 'enemy States'. A political decision by the General Assembly on this matter could be taken at this session. While, of course, other modalities may be considered, the Assembly could, for instance, request the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations to submit to it at its fiftieth session a proposal for an appropriate legal solution that would not amount to a substantive revision of the Charter. Let me express the hope that this initiative will meet with the unanimous support of the Member States. The international community is meeting once again, assembling the great diversity of the nations which are its members, to consider the state of the world and to chart the paths of progress for the 12 months that lie ahead. We give thanks to God for having inspired the delegations here present in their choice of His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the sisterly and friendly Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, as President of the Assembly at this session. His election is both an honour to him personally and a tribute to his country inasmuch as the world recognizes and acknowledges the great dedication of Côte d’Ivoire to everything affecting peace and understanding among people. It does so thanks to the vision of the late President Houphouët-Boigny, which continues to be carried on by his illustrious successor, President Henri Konan Bédié. The personal joy and pride which I feel concerning him as our friend and brother is shared by my entire delegation as well as in Senegal which, since time immemorial, has had numerous ties of friendship and cooperation with Côte d’Ivoire. Hence, the acknowledgement of his merits by the international community was received and hailed in Senegal with the same intensity as in Côte d’Ivoire. The President can count on the support of the delegation of Senegal to contribute to the success of his mission. The warmth of the congratulations we extend to him today is equalled by the pride which we feel at seeing him preside over the forty- ninth session of the General Assembly. We pay a tribute to his predecessor, the Permanent Representative of Guyana, Ambassador Insanally, for the skill and authority with which he guided the work of the Assembly at its forty-eighth session. I should like also to repeat our gratitude to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the energy and dedication which he continues to devote to his outstanding mission at the head of our Organization, a mission which he is carrying out with the same efficiency in an ever more difficult global context. Finally, allow me to thank delegations for the unanimous decision to elect the Permanent Representative of Senegal to the United Nations, Mr. Kéba Birane Cissé, one of our most outstanding diplomats, as Chairman of the Third Committee. In so doing this mission is entrusted to Senegal, whose dedication to human rights and to the other areas falling within the competence of this important Committee, is known to all. Mr. Cissé and all of us intend to dedicate ourselves fully, together with the other countries represented here, to ensure that the work of the Third Committee is crowned with success. If there are years which the history of the world cannot ignore, the twelve-month period that has just elapsed is doubtless among them. It has been extremely rich in events of great political significance characterized by the positive developments of the situation in South Africa which saw the end of apartheid and which, only a few months ago, saw the advent of a democratic Power. It was also a period marked by the political and psychological upheavals that have taken place in Arab- Israeli relations. In this context, we are gratified to see South Africa now occupying its rightful place in the family of nations. The truth always wins in the end. It is in the name of that inevitable reality - which is the token of the ultimate objective of just causes - that the chronic problem of the Middle East - at the heart of which is the question of Palestine - has, since the Declaration of Principles of 13 September 1993 in Washington, seen developments marked by the continued collapse of important panels of that psychological wall that has so long divided Arabs and Israelis. Thus, in the region which was the cradle of the sublime spiritual messages of the religions of the Book, such developments now justify hope - the hope of finally seeing the creation of a space for lasting coexistence between Israelis and Palestinians, between Israel and the Arab countries, with genuine respect for the inalienable rights of the peoples and States of the entire region. They justify the hope of seeing the establishment, between those States and peoples, of cooperation at all possible levels, to manage, together, their vital support systems. It is only fitting that in mentioning those hopes we pay a tribute to all those involved in this positive development whose efforts have made possible the opening of this new window of opportunity on the conflict in the Middle East, especially the Palestinian and Israeli leaders who, thanks to their political courage and sense of history, finally agreed to set out on this path towards a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. 21 In again expressing to His Excellency President Yasser Arafat Senegal’s support and admiration for the courage and political farsightedness which led him to keep a firm grip on that olive branch of which he spoke here in 1974, I should like on behalf of Senegal to formulate the hope that as he takes the additional steps necessary to reach an overall solution to the Israeli-Arab conflict all the other aspects of this matter will be dealt with in accordance with the positive trend of present developments, and that a settlement will be reached in keeping with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. We also wish wholeheartedly to extend these congratulations and expressions of encouragement to the Israeli Prime Minister, His Excellency Mr. Yitzak Rabin, and to his Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Shimon Peres, for their sustained efforts to achieve a settlement of the Middle East crisis. Such efforts must be pursued, stepped up and encouraged. However, the past year, although marked by such positive and historic events, was not free from reasons for concern and even, at times, despair. Indeed, despite our constantly renewed efforts, a number of conflicts persist and are even sometimes becoming mired down in scenes of horror we had hoped never against to witness. From Angola to Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Liberia to Somalia, and recently in Rwanda, we have received the echoes and images and witnessed the piercing horror of persistent crisis situations that leave us no choice other than to continue doggedly to strive for dialogue and concerted action to find lasting solutions based on equity, based on justice, based on law and based on the unshakeable will to live finally in peace in a community made up of human beings. In the conflict situations on the African continent, today, more than ever before, machinery for the prevention, management and settlement of African conflicts must be implemented through respect for the various peace agreements that have been signed among factions that are, sadly, continuing to kill each other; our continent of Africa must be committed once and for all to the only battle worth the candle, namely, the battle for democratic development and the advancement of human rights. The Organization of African Unity (OAU) has dedicated itself to this task, and it has done so persistently and courageously. Today, it needs the support of the whole of the international community. The question of Angola must be peacefully and finally resolved in the spirit of the Lusaka negotiations, under the aegis of the United Nations. After having hailed the meritorious efforts undertaken by the authorities in Luanda, we must launch another strong and concrete appeal to UNITA to allow peace finally to reign in Angola. In connection with the problems in Somalia and Rwanda, I should like to recall certain specific facts concerning the position that my country, Senegal, has taken on these questions of such concern to everyone. In Somalia, the peace so long sought by the international community can obviously come about only through an overall political settlement that would deal with all aspects of that fratricidal conflict. Moreover, because he understood this at a very early stage, His Excellency President Abdou Diouf - then the Chairman of the OAU, and also in his capacity of President of the Sixth Summit Meeting of the Organization of the Islamic Conference - speaking from this rostrum in 1992, put forward the idea of convening an international conference devoted to Somalia. The General Assembly at that time responded to the appeal by the Senegalese Head of State by adopting a resolution to that effect that is still highly relevant. Given the persistence of the problem of Somalia, which today seems more than ever likely to take another tragic turn, it would appear that the time has come to re-examine that initiative. In Rwanda, a human tragedy on a virtually unprecedented scale took place following the events of last April. In this connection, I should like to note that our country has been actively involved in the search for a solution to this conflict since 1992. Indeed, President Abdou Diouf, then the Chairman of the OAU, presided over the lengthy negotiations that culminated in the Arusha Agreements. In addition, officers from the Senegalese national army were part of the Group of Neutral Military Observers of the OAU entrusted with supervising the cease-fire, a group that was as we know replaced in 1993, with the signature of the Arusha Agreements, by the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR), in which Senegal has participated and continues to participate. Thus, it was quite natural that on 22 June of this year, faced with the inadmissible continuing massacre of civilians, the Security Council adopted resolution 929 (1994), which established a multinational force for 22 humanitarian purposes, and that Senegal decided to participate in it. With regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina, need we recall that this is a United Nations Member State to whose territorial integrity and sovereignty the international community is committed. This places full responsibility on the community of nations, gathered together here, to settle the conflict after identifying the aggressor. However, it is as though the Bosnian Serbs had been actually authorized to defy with impunity and in an ongoing fashion the expressed will of the international community. The attacks against the personnel of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), the repeated violations of security zones, the rejection of the latest peace plan proposed by the Contact Group of five Western countries, are all part of a pattern of confrontation with which the international community must finally deal, firmly and with determination. In this connection, we believe that the adoption on 23 September 1994 of Security Council resolution 943 (1994), which suspended the economic sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), is not only premature but untimely, given the deterioration in the situation. It is our opinion, one shared by the majority of States here present, that the sanctions should be, if not strengthened, at least maintained until favourable conditions have been created - that is, the establishment of an effective system of international monitoring of the border between Serbia and Montenegro, on the one hand, and the territories occupied by the Bosnian Serbs, on the other; the lifting of the siege of Sarajevo; the sincere commitment by the Bosnian Serbs to cooperate in reaching a comprehensive political settlement of the crisis; the lifting, where the Bosnian Government is concerned, of the arms embargo imposed by Security Council resolution 713 (1991) in order to restore to Bosnia and Herzegovina the means for its self- defence as set forth in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. It is also important that the international community dedicate itself to the reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a country that is today being battered and devastated by blatant aggression. In our view, those measures represent the minimum we should expect from the international community in order to give credibility to the peace process being pursued in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On this delicate issue, Senegal, whose Head of State is also the current President of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, will continue to act within the framework of international law to ensure that the Bosnian people, finally reconciled among themselves, may know lasting peace based on an equality of rights and duties among its various components. The economic problems today are of such a magnitude that a new concept of world security has been generated. Today, indeed, the feeling of insecurity emanates more often from the vicissitudes of daily life than from any fear of global cataclysm. That is the conclusion reached in this year’s report by the United Nations Development Programme on human development. Job security, health security and environmental security are the forms that the global problem of security takes today. This development naturally raises the question of the definition of a new 'social pact', which must give further priority to human solidarity - solidarity among the communities of men - and it demonstrates the great importance that Senegal attaches to the Summit on social development that is to be held in Copenhagen next March. On that occasion we shall have to restructure our thinking about development, and it will be necessary to highlight better the human aspect of development based on greater international solidarity. It was in this spirit that, here on 30 September 1992, Senegal’s Head of State proposed to the international community the conclusion of a general agreement on solidarity - a gentlemen’s agreement on solidarity. It is a positive thing that this proposal has been largely taken on board in the United Nations Secretary-General’s outline, Agenda for Development, which is designed to promote a genuine culture of development that will take into account all aspects of the human condition. For the same reasons Senegal welcomes warmly the reforms of United Nations bodies that are under way - in particular, those bodies that are responsible for questions of economic and social development. We favour the formula 'Trade, not aid', which has often been used to indicate that global trade is the genuine driving force for economic progress - more so than aid for development. It is beneficial that, along these lines, on 15 April last, in Marrakesh in the Kingdom of Morocco, the representatives of 126 countries signed the agreement that created the World Trade Organization (WTO). 23 We hope that the birth of the WTO represents the completion of the structure that was conceived half a century ago in Bretton Woods as international trade has been raised to the same status as monetary policy and finance for development. Thus, the Marrakesh Final Act opens the way for a new dynamic of concerted action, of consultation and solidarity, that will finally allow for the promotion of a more just and more balanced system designed to govern international trade. If it is to do so, its practical application will have to involve integration of the specific needs and specific problems of the group of developing countries - such as greater justice in the definition and application of new machinery designed to govern international trade; regional economic integration; immigration policies; professional training; job creation; and the transfer of technologies to meet the needs and aspirations of the countries of the South. In this regard, I must mention an event of great importance: the adoption, in Paris on 18 June 1994, of the International Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa. Many of us here represent those countries. This is the outcome, in terms of action, of one of the major recommendations to emerge from the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. As an initiator of the Convention, our continent - Africa - cannot but welcome the conclusion of this multilateral legal instrument, which recognizes the existence of such a worrying environmental problem. It is desirable that there should be available to this Convention, as to others of the same type, sufficient financial resources to enable it to halt and reverse the process of desertification, which is a real scourge for the African continent. The changes of considerable scope that have taken place on the world stage over the past few years confront the United Nations with new challenges and new missions. For example, how can the Organization deal with identity claims, domestic difficulties and civil wars while respecting the principle of the sovereignty of States, which is the cornerstone of the San Francisco Charter? In what way can it - must it - react when individuals and groups perpetrate all types of serious violations of fundamental human rights, as happens in the case of the conflicts that prevail in the former Yugoslavia, Angola, Somalia and Rwanda? What barriers can be erected against terrorism and civil war in order to cope with the fragmentation of State entities, which are factors for peace? In these difficult areas, as in others, our Organization will have to demonstrate its ability to engage in innovation and adaptation. The establishment of an international Tribunal to deal with war crimes in the former Yugoslavia; the plan to set up an international criminal court; the deliberation, begun last year, on reform of the Security Council and on better implementation of Chapter VIII of the Charter - these all demonstrate that the United Nations has committed itself firmly to that course. As regards the Security Council in particular, the reform that is envisaged should be carried out with concern simultaneously for efficiency in the functioning of this body and for real representativeness in keeping with the new realities of the world. The changes that have taken place in the world during the last few years have as their essence the fundamental aspiration of peoples to freedom, justice and development in a spirit of human solidarity. If it is to last, the wind of democratization that they have created at the national level requires parallel action at the international level. Indeed, we must all ensure the equal participation of all States in the establishment of new norms that can give international life a more solid foundation and provide better security for all. Such security can be founded only on shared confidence in the principles that govern our collective contribution to a better future for the world - to the salvation of mankind. Therefore, on the eve of the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization, let us, hand in hand in a spirit of friendship and solidarity, behave in such a way that the new era will shine with the radiance of justice, peace and solidarity so that we may bequeath to future generations a world of peace, justice and friendship. The honor and the duty of presiding over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly have been entrusted to you, Mr. President, and, through you, to your country, Cote d’Ivoire. Burkina Faso and all of Africa are moved by this signal honor. Beyond the legitimate pride experienced by my delegation, I should like to reaffirm our full readiness to assist you. Your wealth of diplomatic experience, together with your professional and human qualities, will ensure the success of our deliberations. You have succeeded Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, who, with discretion and professionalism, determination and logical organization, guided a forty- eighth session that was rich in ideas, initiatives and various kinds of fruitful contacts. We thank him for this. The Secretary-General of our Organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has consistently and courageously continued both in word and in deed to chart a course designed to reaffirm the mission of the Organization and to participate in defining the present and future spheres of action of the international community. Indeed, vision, courage and patience are virtues of which our world is in dire need. We have moved from the static certainties of the international environment of less than a decade ago to the daily, fluid and dangerous uncertainties that surround us and sometimes overwhelm us, and there is an urgent need to find, or to recover, a reliable compass and collective will and solidarity. However, we have been witnessing a disintegration of the old order. We must indeed note that the post-cold- war period has been characterized by the simultaneous emergence of heated conflicts that pit nations against each other or rend apart their integral elements. From Bosnia and Herzegovina to Rwanda, the causes and means may differ more or less noticeably, but the immediate consequence is always identical: the enormous suffering of peoples. During the forty-seventh session of our General Assembly, Burkina Faso stated: 'In their millions, people are cast out into a life of wandering; children are robbed of their childhood, and of their adolescence too; a future without hope is already the lot of a growing number of people caught in the crossfire between one world that is dying and another that is being bomb'. (Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session, Plenary Meetings, 21st meeting, p. 86) Africa continues to be shaken by upheavals and crises of all sorts, and particular attention should be paid to them. With regard to Angola, Burkina Faso welcomes the present efforts aimed at implementing the Peace Agreements and supports Security Council resolutions 864 (1993) and 932 (1994). We urge UNITA to negotiate with greater firmness and thus allow the Lusaka meeting to yield the hoped-for results for peace and the well-being of the people of Angola as well as of the subregion. As to Mozambique, it is our hope that the holding of free and democratic elections this month will put an end to so many years of confrontation and will further commit this brotherly country to a course of reconstruction and national reconciliation for development and peace. We hope that a solution can be found in Western Sahara within the framework of a referendum whose terms of reference will be accepted by all. We welcome the fact that in Burundi progress is being made in the process begun and supported both by the United Nations and by the Organization of African Unity (OAU), and we hope that the election of the President of the Republic on 30 September 1994 will make possible positive developments in this situation very soon. Burkina Faso, within the framework of the OAU, is making its contribution to this process. In Liberia, because of the lack of confidence among the parties, neither the demobilization nor the disarmament provided for in the Cotonou Agreement has fully taken place. These measures had been advocated to bring about an atmosphere propitious to the establishment of democratic institutions. Burkina Faso continues to support the Cotonou Agreement of 25 July 1993 as well as the Akossombo agreement of 12 September last. In Somalia, far from the cameras and the media, the tragedy that was so widely reported by those media two years ago continues. The same players are pursuing the same conflict just as chaotically and relentlessly, without any sign of the will to put an end to it through dialog and negotiation. In Rwanda, the unspeakable tragedy that has combined genocide with intransigence has showed the international community its limits and the procrastination of which it has been guilty. After having hastily decided on a withdrawal during the first weeks of April 1994, the international community, responding to the clamorous indignation of public opinion, was forced to review its position and find a way to return to the scene of the tragedy and attempt to limit its shameful and disastrous development. We should like here to thank those who have wished to confine the irreparable and immeasurable damage within the limits of the restored human conscience. Without an active policy of reconciliation and national reconstruction, it is difficult to envisage a calm and stable future for that brotherly country. In this task, which is enormous in all respects, the Government of Rwanda will need all the assistance that can possibly be given it in a clear-sighted, responsible and committed manner. For its part, Burkina Faso, insofar as it is able, will tirelessly continue to make its contribution to Rwanda. Annoyance, irritation and understandable fatigue now hold sway in the Security Council in its consideration of the questions of Liberia and Somalia; indeed, it is even thinking about leaving those two brotherly countries to their own devices. The reasoning put forward for this is that in an environment marked by a plethora of requests for material, financial and human resources, it is impossible to continue to deal with protagonists who prefer war to the loss of a power that has not yet truly even been achieved. It is true that peace cannot be imposed anywhere. Burkina Faso is aware of this and experiences it every day as President Blaise Compaore, putting these convictions into practice, engages in subregional mediation and thus makes his contribution to the great African plan for the necessary and indispensable integration of our continent. Peace thus must be unremittingly pursued. And the task of diplomats is to work to find acceptable and viable terms. Should we then leave all those areas of conflict to their own devices? The answer to this question will tell us more about all of us than about the protagonists of those crises. In Asia and Latin America, the conflict situations with which our Organization is dealing are moving in a direction which gives us reasonable hope to see a settlement very soon. We encourage Kuwait and Iraq to respect resolution 833 (1993) of the Security Council. We are also encouraging dialog between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea, as well as negotiations between the United States of America and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on the nuclear issue. Burkina Faso has welcomed and hailed the signing on 13 September 1993 of the historic agreement on the Declaration of Principles between President Arafat and Prime Minister Rabin, and also the signature on 4 May 1994 of the Agreement on Gaza and Jericho. Burkina Faso urges that this policy be pursued. The first democratic elections have taken place in South Africa. The South African people now have leaders that they have freely elected. We once again hail the eminence of President Mandela, as well as the merits of Vice-President De Klerk, for having been able, together with the people of South Africa, to lead South Africa towards a democratic and non-racial society. Here among us at last in the United Nations, South Africa will be able to play and fully shoulder its role in the community of nations, thus strengthening that principle of universality that we supported in a recent initiative concerning the Republic of China. All of this indicates the extent to which political upheavals affect, sometimes in an extraordinary fashion the haves of men, women and children on all continents. However, to use an expression that was used four years ago during the World Summit for Children, the world continues inexorably to witness a 'silent emergency' that is still going on and is growing. The global economy has experienced a recession that has more brutally and heartlessly affected the developing countries. This state of affairs has exacerbated situations of injustice and flagrant inequality. The improvement of the economic climate of the developing countries hinges on the growth of financial investment flows, on the transfer of technology, on the elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers, on just remuneration for commodities and raw materials. This is not new, and it will be reiterated as long as the developing countries do not have a greater say concerning the processes and machinery for decision-making relating to all these questions. This is why an agenda for development is now urgent and of the highest priority. This agenda should put forward specific measures for implementation focused on growth and development, and integrate the strategies and plans for action negotiated and adopted during the United Nations conferences. From Rio to Cairo, it has been possible to obtain consensus, but what is still missing are the new and additional resources with which to implement the decisions taken. In this connection, we hope that the implementation of the International Convention to Combat Desertification, signed in Paris on 14 and 15 October 1994, will not also suffer from this lack. While the developing countries are fulfilling their share of commitments, the developed countries are balking at making their contributions. This is notably affecting the concept and the implementation of global partnership, which was so highly praised at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. We fear that, as regards the use made of their results, these Conferences have only been understood in terms of their theme, without taking account of development. If these comments are harsh, reality is even more so. Problems build up while financial resources dry up. The eradication of poverty, in such a context, will be difficult to bring about and will have fewer chances for success. The commitment undertaken by the developed countries to allocate 0.7 per cent of their GNP to public assistance for development has not always been respected, except by a few of them. Africa, more than the other continents, is in a situation that is critical and recognized as such by the United Nations. However, from the Program of Action of the United Nations for the Economic Recovery and Development of Africa in 1986, to the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted in 1991, nothing concrete has given concrete form to that commitment by the international community. Over the last ten years, the African debt has been discussed ad infinitum, without, however, being reduced or eliminated to an extent likely to allow Africa to relaunch its economy and structure its markets. Several of our partners have made efforts, and we note the decision of the Group of Seven in Naples to expand the Trinidad Conditions to the performing African countries. If this is a step in the right direction, it is not sufficient in a context where, as I said earlier, the deterioration of the terms of trade and the loss of preferential markets are increasing the burden of the debt. We therefore support the efforts of the Secretary-General aimed at establishing a fund for diversification, and we call upon the partners of Africa to play an active and positive role in establishing this fund. In April 1994, the signing in Marrakesh of the Agreements of the Uruguay Round opened a new chapter in international trade relations, more or less establishing the marginalization of Africa, which had already been evident throughout the negotiations. We hope that the recently created World Trade Organization will be able to participate in the creation of a multilateral system of trade based on applicable, non-discriminatory relations, and that in particular it will take account of the interests of the developing countries. On the basis of a concern for independence and for the integration of the global economy, access to resources, markets and technology, preferential assistance and compensation measures must be open to the developing countries. The spirit of this new configuration should not be motivated by charity but rather by the awareness that certain measures must be taken to ensure that the development of the world in partnership and solidarity takes place harmoniously. It is in the interest of all of us. The forthcoming World Summit for Social Development, therefore, should emphasize man's needs and put man at the center of development and of international cooperation in drawing up the objectives and specific commitments which we shall be undertaking. So too, the World Conference on Women to be held in Beijing will have to continue that work of intensification begun in Cairo during the International Conference on Population and Development: woman, the best agent for development. For half a decade, the Member States of the United Nations have been involved in a series of Conferences that culminated in an acknowledgment of the following facts. The right to development exists. It must be reflected in reality. It is part of human rights. Development is possible only in peace, and peace itself can be maintained only through development. Democracy and development, therefore, are linked. One after the other, the representatives who have spoken have emphasized the role of the United Nations. The Organization is the most valuable multilateral instrument available to nations. It is important that we give it the means to fulfill our ambitions and our projects. The times have compelled us to confine ourselves to finding the answers that must be found for the urgent situations threatening the lives of human beings. Peacekeeping operations currently face unprecedented complexity and difficulty. We salute and thank the 73 nations that are offering their sons and their resources for the purpose of extinguishing flames kindled throughout the world by man's intransigence and madness. Apart from the question of urgency, there are priorities. If these are understood and dealt with, the emergency situations of tomorrow and beyond will be eased, and we shall come closer to having a more stable, less unjust and more harmonious world. A review of the United Nations system - the role, nature and place of the Security Council and of the General Assembly - is one of the urgent priorities that must be addressed if we are not to harm the future. It will become ever more difficult to wish for democracy in the world if democracy is avoided in the functioning and activity of the United Nations. A year from now we shall be celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of this Organization. The profusion, complexity and simultaneousness of problems relentlessly assail societies and nature. Mankind will be able to face these challenges and difficulties only by assuming and accepting our complementarity and our interdependence. It is that initiative and that momentum which will renew our bond with the ideals proclaimed 49 years ago in a document signed in San Francisco, which we call the Charter of the United Nations. Let us, therefore, be an Organization of truly united nations. This is possible only if there is a spirit of justice, peace and solidarity.  May I, on behalf of the Government and the people of Jamaica, convey warmest congratulations to Mr. Amara Essy on his election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I wish to assure him of the full support and cooperation of the Jamaican delegation in the deliberations on the many important issues before the Assembly. Let me also take this opportunity to congratulate Ambassador Insanally of Guyana on the skilful and innovative manner in which he presided over the forty- eighth session. We in the Caribbean are justifiably proud of his contributions to the Assembly’s deliberations. Last year I emphasized that the international community was at a crossroads where we were faced not only with matters of economic progress but also with an environment full of conflicts and strife. My outlook was, and still is, one of optimism, an optimism rooted in the recognition that the old political and military order has passed and that history has, for the second time in less than two generations, provided us with the opportunity to embark on a process of international consensus-building. This is an exciting and daunting task, particularly for a small island State like Jamaica, whose faith and commitment to multilateralism and the United Nations remain unwavering. Our most pressing collective challenge is to make this Organization a more effective instrument for peace and development. The United Nations is being called upon to respond to a host of new challenges, including emergency humanitarian assistance, peace-keeping, peacemaking, development and post-conflict rebuilding. The past year has seen human misery and dislocation of fearful proportions in Haiti, on the high seas of the Caribbean, in Rwanda, in the refugee camps of Zaire and Tanzania, in Bosnia and in Afghanistan. Their underlying causes are political, social and economic. The United Nations can and should bring to these and other situations a broadly encompassing view of the indivisibility of political, economic and social processes. The Organization and its resources and the will and vision of its Members must be mobilized to address the imperatives of social and economic development. We must seek to promote a new era of international cooperation for global human security. The global nature of this challenge is inescapable. It has become evident that no State by itself can control the spread of environmental degradation and pollution, transnational migrations and diseases such the AIDS epidemic. Economic globalization and the accompanying liberalization of trade and financial flows, now link developed and developing economies, North and South, East and West. Global solutions and coordinated strategies must consequently form the basis of our actions. 10 General Assembly 22nd meeting Globalization brings new opportunities, but it also brings new dangers. Despite the general trend towards improved economic management, economic disparities are widening. Developing countries are being marginalized from the growth trends in the international economy. This is a matter of concern to Jamaica as we, like a large number of other developing countries, have placed high developmental priority on export-led growth and on attracting investment flows. Structural adjustment programmes have also been undertaken at great social cost. The contributions of the United Nations and its specialized agencies in areas such as institution-building, poverty alleviation, productivity enhancement, small enterprise development and financing, and the strengthening of human resources, continue to be vital elements in enhancing the productive potential of developing countries. This will, in turn, enable our countries to benefit more fully from and to participate more effectively in a liberal and increasingly organic global economy. The United Nations must now work vigorously towards the implementation of an agenda for development. A meaningful agenda for development must set priorities in programmes and resources that respond to the challenges posed by the international environment for developing countries. These priorities must address all issues to which adequate multilateral solutions have yet to be found. These include the burden of debt; inadequate flows of official development assistance; the debilitating brain drain; the reverse transfer of resources to multilateral financial institutions; the social costs of structural adjustment and the non-transparent trade barriers and protectionist measures that remain in place in industrialized countries against the products of developing countries even as the general trend towards liberalization and trade in goods and services is accelerating. The agenda must strengthen the role of the United Nations in the area of international economic policy- making and coordination. It must seek to enhance the relationship of the United Nations with the Bretton Woods institutions. This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the two Bretton Woods institutions established under the umbrella of the United Nations. I wish to emphasize that we should continue to examine the roles and policies of these institutions. We must make the changes that five decades of experience indicate are necessary so as to improve the prospects for growth and development of developing countries — change which can be carried out without undermining the health and vitality of the international economy or the fiscal integrity of these institutions. Major developed countries should re-examine their opposition to the sound proposals for change that have been put forward repeatedly by developing countries — proposals that range from increasing international liquidity to longer adjustment periods. Over the years, the International Monetary Fund has moved from the supervision of a fixed exchange rate system to assisting developing countries through financial crises, while the World Bank has made the transition from post- war reconstruction to funding development in the third world. Now is an opportune time to reassess their respective roles, given new global dynamics and changing patterns of trade and investment. The Fund and the Bank need to quickly adapt to the current global economic system if they are to remain relevant to contemporary realities. Two important conferences were held this year which offered opportunities for international attention and action. In Barbados, the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States adopted a programme of action which now requires the support and assistance of the United Nations system and the donor community for its speedy and effective implementation. The recently concluded International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo produced a landmark document highlighting the inextricable linkage between population, sustained economic growth and sustained development. Next year in Copenhagen, the World Summit for Social Development will endeavour to adopt a global approach to the eradication of poverty, the generation of productive employment and the enhancement of social integration. We will also meet in Beijing at the Fourth World Conference on Women to continue to put in place measures which will create an enabling environment for women. Jamaica will actively participate in these important processes. I have chosen to focus at the outset on what Jamaica sees as the development imperative and priorities of the United Nations because we are convinced that the path to development and the path to peace are one and the same. Jamaica fully supports an open, non-discriminatory trading system governed by transparent rules and with an effective mechanism for settling disputes. We therefore await the implementation of the conclusions of the Uruguay Round and the establishment of the World Trade Organization. We will work actively within the new organization to ensure the promotion of development through trade, placing special importance on those 11 General Assembly 22nd meeting provisions in the conclusions of the Uruguay Round which seek to ensure a regime of fairness and equity in the overall context of a programme of free trade. The international community and its institutions are dynamic. The choice is whether we actively shape the change that inevitably comes with the passing of time and with new circumstances, or whether we merely react to events. The World Trade Organization is an example of purposeful design by the international community. Yet another — a truly historic one — is the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. As is widely known, the Convention, which establishes a regulatory mechanism for the oceans, the seas and their resources, will enter into force on 16 November of this year. The inaugural meeting of the International Seabed Authority will be held in Kingston on that date. This will be both an end and a beginning. The event will mark the end of a process that began nearly twenty years ago and the opening of a new and historic chapter in international juridical and economic relations. The inaugural meeting will see the establishment of the International Seabed Authority. We are extremely proud that Jamaica will host this important organization, which has responsibility for regulating and exploiting the world’s vastest resource base. It must be emphasized, however, that the success of the Authority will require the cooperation of all parties concerned, in order to ensure that the goal of universality is achieved. It is important that the Authority receive the necessary resources to enable it to operate effectively, in a way consistent with principles and practices applied to institutions within the United Nations system. I wish again to pay tribute to those who have contributed to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, to its ratification and to the establishment of the International Seabed Authority. We invite all States to join in the momentous first meeting of the Authority in Kingston from 16 to 18 November. We look forward to welcoming the Secretary- General of this Organization, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has graciously accepted the invitation of the Government of Jamaica to be at the inaugural meeting. Since I spoke to this body last year, the Republic of South Africa has resumed its seat in the General Assembly. The installation of a majority government in that country, under the leadership of President Nelson Mandela, is a historic development of which the entire international community is justifiably proud. The dismantling of apartheid was a consequence of the long and valiant struggle waged by the South African people. It was also a victory for multilateralism and an important reminder of the critical role that multilateral organizations such as the United Nations can play in resolving difficult international issues. The Government and the people of Jamaica welcome a non-racial, democratic South Africa into the international community of nations. In our own region, the situation in Haiti has been of great concern to Jamaica and our Caribbean Community (CARICOM) partners. The wanton abuse of human rights that led to the death of Haitians within Haiti and of many of those who fled in unsafe vessels simply had to stop. We welcome the most recent developments in Haiti and the reaffirmation by the international community of its commitment to the Governors Island Accord. There can be no deviation from the critical elements to which we subscribed. The recent Security Council resolution sends a strong signal to the military authorities that the international community will accept no less than the prompt return of the legitimately elected President, the restoration of the constitutional authority of the Government of Haiti, the reform of the army and the police force, and the building of lasting democratic institutions. Jamaica, along with several of our CARICOM partners, is playing its part in this process by participating in the multinational force and in the United Nations Mission in Haiti. Developments in Haiti have underscored the wisdom of the philosophy of the countries of the Caribbean that maintaining peace and stability, within the context of democratic institutions and practices, must be the fundamental basis for the development of our region. Within the wider Latin American and Caribbean region, we are actively strengthening and widening cooperation among our countries. The establishment of the Association of Caribbean States (ACS) in July of this year was a historic development that provides for even stronger collaboration and cooperation. We hope that in the interest of the entire region, a process of sustained dialogue and accommodation between Cuba and the United States can be initiated, and that this will lead to conditions that permit the eventual full reintegration of Cuba into the region and into the hemispheric community. Jamaica welcomes the call 12 General Assembly 22nd meeting made by the Rio Group at its recent Eighth Summit meeting for the lifting of the trade embargo against Cuba. The trade and economic prospects of countries in the region can be strengthened only by the priority now being accorded to regional and hemispheric relations and by the growing role, actual wand envisioned, for regional and subregional organizations, such as CARICOM and the newly established ACS, as well as by arrangements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). In the case of NAFTA, which we support strongly, Jamaica and other participants in the Caribbean Basin Initiative (CBI) programme continue to press for the adoption, by the United States Congress of the Interim Trade programme, which would significantly offset adverse consequences on existing conditions of access under the CBI. I feel compelled to return in these final comments to the mission of this Organization — peace and development. There can be little cause for comfort when, since 1945, 20 million people have died in wars and other conflicts. It is disturbing and instructive to learn that some 80 million persons now live in foreign lands, and that a million persons immigrate permanently each year, while another million seek political asylum as they flee both poverty and internal strife. The increasing flows of refugees and displaced persons worldwide threaten peace and stability and exacerbate tensions and conflicts between countries and in entire regions. We must strengthen international cooperation in this area and streamline national and international procedures for dealing with this grave problem. To be true to its mission, the United Nations must be an Organization that reduces both want and war. This is why I underscored earlier my delegation’s strong belief that this Organization must become increasingly active in the promotion of long-term development, which is the necessary underpinning of a genuine and lasting peace. The United Nations must not shrink from this aspect of its mission. The military and ideological realignment of recent years has created new opportunities for peace. But these unprecedented developments must be supported by institutional reforms and by new approaches on our part. These institutional reforms must inevitably include the reform of the Security Council, the principal organ charged with the maintenance of international peace and security. In this regard, Jamaica fully supports the call for its enlargement. We believe that the Security Council must be truly representative in order to be fully effective. Expenditure on armaments continues to consume resources and to divert spending away from human development needs in both developed and developing countries. Military downsizing, particularly by developing countries, has yet to gather the momentum that was expected at the end of the cold war. The United Nations has a legitimate role to play in providing technical and other assistance to help developing and other countries shift human and material resources from military to civilian use. We note that the permanent members of the Security Council are also the world’s leading exporters of conventional weapons. This is an issue that should be addressed both in terms of reducing arms exports, as well as in terms of converting the resources to the requirements of peace and development. It would be remiss of me if I concluded my contribution to this debate without referring to the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, to be celebrated next year. As we all prepare for this historic occasion, we must reflect on the fact that this achievement is in itself a vindication of the principles on which the Organization was founded. If we are to survive beyond that milestone we must remain steadfast to these principles. We are gathered here today, in a new session of the General Assembly, in a new year in the life of the United Nations, one that will take us to the end of the first half century of its existence, which we shall celebrate next year. Half a century will have passed since the birth of a great dream, a dream that humanity envisaged as an endeavor for peace, reconciliation, solidarity, rapprochement, and dialogue amongst peoples of different ethnic origins and cultures across continents, a dialogue amongst nations, States, ideologies, religions, and creeds of this world, with all its differences and singularities. Through this great dream, humanity wanted to create an arbiter, a referee on right, justice, and peace, and a forum in which it could discuss its problems and seek arbitration; in which it could find a way to defend rights when rights are denied, to defend itself when injustice prevails, and a champion that would stand by its side when it is threatened. Through this dream, mankind sought to put an end to wars and armed conflicts, to protect the sovereignty of nations, and to guarantee respect for their independence and free choice. Thus, the United Nations came into existence. The United Nations was born; and along with it, a great project emerged - one that was expected to contribute to the solution of the world’s crises. Alongside the Organization, its political, security, social, economic, and cultural organs were set up. The peoples of the world expected a lot from those organs, and treated them accordingly, with a deference commensurate with their standing. The will of this prestigious world body, which represents the position, the decision, and the will of the world’s peoples, is more comprehensive than the will of any individual State, no matter how great and powerful it may be. The peoples of the world looked up to it and accorded it the respect normally granted to the defenders of right and justice. Right and justice supersede political interests, no matter how strong they may be. How far away are we today from this dream, from this great endeavour, from all those intentions, slogans, ambitions, aspirations, ideals and prospects? Where is peace in the world, when battlefronts are widespread? What have we done about the resolution of conflicts while conflicts escalate? What about the elimination of violence which is still on the ascendance? How far away are we today from protecting what is right; from upholding the sovereignty of nations which is still undermined; from respecting human rights and the rights of peoples and States which are still being trampled? What have we done about the resolutions adopted by this very Organization, in this very General Assembly 33 Hall? What about the resolutions that await implementation, and the many others that await adoption, and are knocking about in the labyrinths of impotence and deals? How far away are we today from the credibility and authority of our resolutions, from the one single standard by which we should judge things? I beg your indulgence for daring to voice these questionings. I beg your indulgence, because they are voiced by a State which is not privileged to be a member of the club of powerful nations which dare to question the United Nations. I beg your indulgence, because those who need the United Nations are not the powerful and the influential. The United Nations was not created for them. It was created for the oppressed, for the unjustly treated, for those who are not powerful by any means. The small size of States and the humble size of their populations have never been the true yardstick by which their role and contribution should be measured. Many nations have had a history larger than their geography, a role larger than their size, and a contribution far greater than the potential of others. Lebanon is one of those States. We have existed for thousands of years, ever since humanity first organized itself into entities. We have had our political, cultural, economic, legal, and humanistic structures ever since. Side by side with its Phoenician civilization, Lebanon embraced Pharaonic, Mesopotamian, Persian, Greek, Roman, Arab, and Western civilizations. Our foremost contribution was to give mankind its first alphabet. We have also enriched it with our legal, intellectual, cultural, economic, scientific, educational and humanistic contributions. We were present when the United Nations was born. We were also present when the International Court of Justice issued its first opinion, and we contributed to its making. We volunteered to work in all the United Nations organs and programmes at all levels. We shouldered our share of responsibility by hosting some of them, and by offering them the best of our men and intellectuals. Social and cultural pluralism was our national hallmark. In our composition, we were able to develop an abridged formula for multicultural nation States. The principle of state-building in the post-First World War era was based on nationalities and ethnic origins. But today in the era of communications super-highways, in the era of ever-increasing demographic mobility, we have come to recognize that this principle, when put to the test, has failed. While attempts have been made through the years to obliterate the distinctive identities of peoples living under certain regimes - as in the case of the Soviet Union during the Stalin era - those identities have resurfaced, as have the problems which resulted from the attempt at their suppression. If Lebanon were an almost unique case in the past, given the pluralistic features of its society, it is no longer so today. The Lebanese experience has become commonplace, as we have come to witness through the now commonplace demographic movement of populations and the lowering of geopolitical barriers. While our formula has been tested, many countries are still in the experimental stage. With the demise of the theory of nationalism, there is need for a new system, one that allows for the coexistence of different cultures and identities under the roof of one homeland, as dictated by modern economic, technological, and practical challenges and needs. Lebanon, its land and its people have had to suffer the ravages of regional and international conflicts, the vagaries of hurricanes of international ideological differences and their complications. But, as ever in our history, we have been able to prove that we have the ability to rise to the challenges that face us and that our formula for coexistence is much stronger than some people may have believed, merely because it is the only feasible and practicable one. When Lebanon was able to overcome the wars waged by others on its soil, armed with the will of its people and the support of its brethren and friends; when Lebanon enhanced its internal security and stability, reactivated its national dialogue and tore down the barriers between its various factions and forces; and when Lebanon started to rebuild its institutions, rehabilitate its infrastructures and embark upon its political and economic endeavours, it proved once again that its 34 time-honoured existence could not be wiped out and that it was too strong to be eliminated. But Lebanon’s full sovereignty over all its territories and its total independence will remain compromised so long as major parts of its soil are not under its control and so long as the State remains unable to extend its full sovereignty over all its national soil through its own legitimate national forces. So long as Israel occupies Lebanon’s territories, despite repeated United Nations resolutions and the will of the international community; so long as Lebanese citizens are still languishing in Israeli detention camps, ignored by the international community and out of the reach of the humanitarian organizations that are not allowed to visit them; so long as this continues, the wounds will not heal and the blood shall not be stanched. So long as that occupation continues over more than one eighth of our national territory; so long as Israeli raids continue to sow the land daily with bombs, mines and booby traps - killing mainly our innocent children; so long as these criminal acts continue against a heroic people that refuses to surrender, the cries of our women and children will continue to haunt the world along with our cries of anger, revolt and resistance. Until now, the occupation has failed to contain this anger, regardless of the means employed. Day after day, the death toll rises, ours and theirs. Blood flows in Southern Lebanon and in the Beka’a Valley. No technological invention, no matter how ingenious, and no technique of war have been able to undermine our people’s determination to regain its independence, freedom, sovereignty and peace. There are over 300 Lebanese men and women still languishing in Israeli prisons. Some have died; others have been disabled. In their prison cells, they hear about a theory called 'human rights', one that tops the agendas of our meetings and forums. Theorists are preoccupied over the rights of flora, fauna and the environment while our prisoners wonder to which class they belong and under which category they are classified. So long as the international community addresses the world’s problems by using more than one standard; so long as Security Council resolutions remain unimplemented; and so long as Chapter VII of the Charter is applied selectively to troublemakers who lack any kind of protection, we cannot be deemed faithful to the true mission of the United Nations. We have waited so long for the international community to show some real interest. We have also waited impatiently for the implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978), only to see the Council refrain from condemning the aggression rather than enforce its resolutions. When it does condemn, the condemnation applies equally to the aggressor and the aggressed under the pretext of supporting the peace process. We were invited to the Madrid Peace Conference. We were optimistic about the invitation, the content and the sponsorship. The co-sponsors were super-Powers and the Conference was to be convened on the basis of a just, comprehensive and lasting peace, anchored in the principle of 'land for peace' and on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) respectively. We accepted advice to join in that mechanism. By accepting the invitation, we accepted the content. We were expected to discuss mechanisms and schedules. Three years have passed since the convening of the Madrid Conference. Months followed upon each other’s heels in waiting, time and again, for parliamentary elections, for presidential elections, for the appropriate moment on the local level and for circumstances aimed at improving the position of one side while isolating or cornering the other side. Three years have passed, and our tour of world capitals is almost complete. From Madrid to Washington, to Paris, to Oslo and to Moscow. We are still discussing the basic principles which should have been settled the very first moment the Conference was convened. The principle of 'land for peace' still awaits the definition of the land concept. The principle of withdrawal is still unclear, since in the way that it is proposed, it still means occupation under different forms. The principle of negotiating land for peace, which presupposes equality in the negotiating positions, is preempted by pressuring the Arab negotiator so that he is left with nothing to offer. Resistance must stop - so we are told - without any guarantee of withdrawal or liberation. The boycott must end, but no guarantees are given for the recovery of the usurped rights. We must enter the multilateral negotiations without knowing whether or not there will be peace and what the form and 35 content of that peace will be. We are asked to celebrate and to shake hands without knowing what it is we are celebrating. We are required to take into account the local public opinion of others; we have to reassure that public opinion of others as if we ourselves do not have a public opinion to convince and as if we do not have our own sceptics who question our opting for peace. Yes, we the victims of aggression are required to give security guarantees to the aggressor. Those without weapons are required to reassure those who possess nuclear, chemical and bacteriological weapons. Yes, we entered the negotiations for peace - an honourable peace, not a guilty one; a balanced peace, not a lopsided one; a just peace, not an unjust one; a comprehensive peace, not a partial one; a genuine peace, not a festive one; an equitable peace, not a biased one; a natural peace, not an artificial one; a permanent peace, not a temporary one; a peace of the people, not of regimes; a peace that makes us proud, not ashamed; a peace of loyalty to, not betrayal of our martyrs. We want a peace that allows for the return of refugees, rather than consecrates their dispersion; a peace that satisfies the revolutionary, instead of provoking him; a peace from which we draw strength; a peace we can protect; a peace that will, once and for all, relieve the world of this burden, the burden of our region; a peace that will put an end to exporting anger; a peace of prosperity, development, and stability; a peace that will allow our widows to cease their mourning. The days when the problems of peoples were confined to their own countries are over. The days when geographic and political boundaries were a barrier between peoples are over. Our era is one of interdependence and of communication. It is an era of the lowering of all barriers. No country is too remote. No matter how far removed from the area of conflict, it will still be affected by that conflict and by the demographic problems that do not recognize boundaries or borders, unless such problems are stemmed at the source. We can always be subject to nuclear, chemical and bacteriological pollution, since there are no boundaries in the atmosphere. The environment can very well become contaminated, because the mountains cannot stop the wind from blowing, and nature cannot stop rivers from flowing. We will all be affected, whenever and wherever a disaster strikes. We are all concerned about the world’s security, its stability, prosperity, resources, needs, requirements, markets and citizens, wherever they may be. The Middle East must not forever remain a fiery volcano that threatens the peace of the world around it, challenges international security, and destabilizes the world economy. It must not remain the source of the world’s anger and resentment. Let there be no more occupied territories, no more acts of aggression, no more prisoners languishing in the prisons. Let there be no more blood flowing through the land of the prophets. Let no more darkness prevail in the cradle of God’s religions. This region will not enjoy more favorable opportunities than those that exist today. Time will not be forever on the side of those who seek peace. Our region must produce visionaries, as it has always done, and not manipulators of peace. Our congratulations to you, Sir, on the assumption of the presidency of this session of the General Assembly cannot come from the heart in isolation of what we expect from the United Nations during your presidency. The efforts of the Secretary-General cannot be viewed or appreciated outside the scope of our view of the United Nations. May God guide you and illuminate your path in the service of world peace to which Lebanon is dedicated and for which it fights. Once again I am proud and honoured to have the opportunity to address this assembly of nations and to convey to representatives fraternal and cordial greetings from the Government and people of Saint Kitts and Nevis. The convening of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations provides the Governments of all Member States with an important opportunity to reaffirm their commitment to the cause of peace, democracy and the pursuit of a higher quality of life for our peoples. I wish to join other representatives by extending warmest congratulations from the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis to you, Mr. President, on your election to preside at this session of the General Assembly. I assure you of my Government’s continued support and cooperation. Allow me, Sir, to thank the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally, for the astute and most able manner in which he conducted and guided the affairs of this body during its forty-eighth session despite unprecedented trials and numerous challenges. His resolve and his successes give credence to his commitment to the planting of seeds of cooperation and goodwill in every corner of the globe to ensure that our children and grandchildren may feast on harvests of peace, equality, freedom and democracy. The Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has faced many problems of great complexity during the past year. I wish to congratulate him on the outstanding manner in which he has been carrying out the mandate of the Organization. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis shares the commitment to democracy, respect for human dignity and the protection of human rights. Our people enjoy the 1 effective workings of the democratic process and the safeguards provided by its institutions. We are determined to do all that we can, in our time, to ensure that future generations too will be able to exercise their democratic freedoms in an atmosphere of political stability. There is an ever-increasing thirst for democracy throughout the world. In our hemisphere, military regimes have been giving way to democratically elected Governments. Nowhere has this process been more dramatic than in Haiti, where, in 1991, the people, in free and fair elections under the keen scrutiny of the international community, chose Jean-Bertrand Aristide as their President. For almost four years the will of the people of Haiti and the resolve of the international community have been callously frustrated by the military, who usurped and have held on to power. Saint Kitts and Nevis is in full agreement with the resolute action taken by the United States, with the support of the international community, to ensure compliance with Security Council resolution 940 (1994). The multinational force has been carrying out its work with dedication, professionalism and restraint. While there have been some untoward incidents, we must not be deterred. We must be prepared to stay the course for the benefit of the people of Haiti and for the growth of stable democracy in this hemisphere. The process of establishing democracy will not end with the return of President Aristide; it will have just begun. In order to support the process, it is absolutely essential that the international community be ready to mobilize significant financial and technical resources to ensure the rebuilding of Haiti’s economy and institutions - institutions destroyed by decades of neglect and mismanagement. Saint Kitts and Nevis stands ready to assist in the long and arduous task of helping the Haitian people rebuild their economy. For many years the international community struggled to bring democracy to the majority of the people of South Africa. Today South Africa can be held up as a beacon of hope and a testament to the triumph of democracy. Last year my delegation welcomed the announcement of the holding of non-racial and multi-party elections - something for which my Government had been calling since joining this Organization 11 years ago. We have successfully and emphatically closed the final chapter of the brutal and unjust system of apartheid, and a new and democratic South Africa has emerged from its ashes. However, despite the successes, the new South Africa is still on the threshold of unprecedented challenges. The journey is long and arduous, but the country’s leaders and its people have a wonderful opportunity to right historical wrongs while at the same time charting a new and purposeful course in their future. The amalgamated voice of the people of South Africa has been heard, not only within that country but the world over. They have put their faith in the democratic process. As South Africa sails the fresh and often tumultuous waters of representative democracy and attempts to institutionalize social justice, St. Kitts and Nevis reiterates its commitment to join with the international community to give that country and its people the requisite support to develop lasting democratic and social institutions to ensure that democracy does work and is seen to work for every single citizen. The contrasting realities of our world are quite real and apparent. Whenever we believe that we have solved one major problem, another presents itself elsewhere. This notwithstanding, we can all be pleased at the current movement towards peace under way in the Middle East. Not long ago the prospect of peace in any form seemed practically impossible. However, today the peace process seems to be gaining a firm foothold in that region. The international community must be ready to give unreserved support to that process and afford it more durable mechanisms for success. My Government welcomes the consolidation of peace and the efforts at cooperation between the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. No one could have predicted that so much would have been possible, and in so short a time. The rapidly changing face of Middle East politics augurs well for the overall peace process, quality of life and stability of the entire region. In this spirit, my delegation applauds the joint Declaration officially ending the state of belligerency between the State of Israel and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. This historic event marks yet another bold and positive step on the road to ensuring a lasting peace in the Middle East. My Government calls upon the countries in the Middle East to give peace a practical chance. As prospects for peace continue to flourish in the Middle East, the tranquillity of the Gulf region is once again being threatened by an Iraqi troop build-up near the Kuwait border. It is time for the people of Kuwait to feel secure within their own borders. It is time for full compliance by Iraq with Security Council resolutions 2 pertaining to the aggression against Kuwait. It is time for Kuwait nationals detained in Iraq to be returned to their homeland. It is time for Iraq to pursue peaceful policies with its neighbours. Once again the Government of St. Kitts and Nevis urges the Government of Iraq to respect the finalization of the demarcation of the boundary between Kuwait and Iraq, which was accomplished by the Iraq- Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission on 20 May 1993, and to respect and abide by Security Council resolution 833 (1993), which guarantees the inviolability of the boundary between the two States. It is the fervent hope of the Government of St. Kitts and Nevis that international support for this resolution will act as a deterrent, both now and in the future, against conflict between Kuwait and Iraq and will at the same time help enhance stability and security in the region. The constantly changing realities of the present world situation call for Member Governments to harden traditional attitudes while making genuine attempts to search for pragmatic solutions requiring different and unprecedented approaches and compromises. It was against this backdrop that at the last session of the General Assembly my Government called upon the warring factions in the Yugoslavian conflict to come to the negotiating table. We note with great satisfaction that the leaders of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzergovina have managed to arrive at a peaceful settlement of disputes. However, my Government abhors the wanton murder, 'ethnic cleansing' and systematic persecution of innocent people which still characterize the brutal conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These atrocities and the flagrant and consistent violation of human rights are an affront to everything we as human beings hold sacred. The international community must continue to express its just indignation at the atrocities in this arena of conflict. At the same time, we must pursue all initiatives to find a just and lasting solution, preferably at the negotiating table. Last year my delegation commended this body for its tireless efforts to keep the international community from the brink of nuclear warfare and called upon all countries signatories to the Treaty on non-proliferation to continue to abide by it and to urge those who had not yet become parties to it to do so. We repeat this plea today. We also look forward to an indefinite ban on all nuclear testing. I must reiterate, however, that we should not stop there, but should aim also for the non-proliferation of all weapons, including chemical, biological and conventional. In this regard, St. Kitts and Nevis also supports the moratorium on the export of land-mines, and goes even further by calling for a ban on their manufacture as well as their export. Land-mines continue to cause tremendous misery and untold hardship for many populations world- wide long after conflicts have ended. In most cases the victims of these land-mines are poor farmers and innocent children. It is our sacred and solemn responsibility as world leaders to ensure a safe world for our nation’s children. My delegation therefore congratulates the United Nations on its consistent efforts to fulfil its humanitarian missions in the many different theatres of tragic suffering world-wide. The humanitarian catastrophe which has been unfolding in Rwanda threatens to destabilize the fragile economic and political balance of its neighbours. The scope and scale of this human disaster, unprecedented in the history of modern-day Africa, should catapult us to seek a peaceful end to the crisis. Reports on the revolting policy of 'ethnic cleansing' and indiscriminate massacres of women and children strike a familiar, mind-wrenching note in our collective psyche. Although its resources are minuscule, St. Kitts and Nevis could not fail to make a financial contribution to the United Nations relief effort in Rwanda. We must act decisively to mobilize more resources from every possible source to intensify the relief effort in that tragic country. We, the Members of the United Nations cannot pamper our consciences with pious speeches on what the United Nations ought to do to alleviate the suffering, while at the same time rendering the Organization impotent by refusing to give it the necessary financial and material capabilities it so desperately needs to carry out its functions more effectively. The United Nations is being called upon with greater frequency to respond to a greater variety of conflicts, suffering and development needs. If the Organization is to be able to respond effectively, we must evaluate from time to time not only our resources, but the way in which we manage those resources, and ensure that there is greater accountability in such management. In short, the United Nations, recognizing the responsibilities entrusted to it by the international community, must be more accountable to its Members. What we are suggesting, therefore, is a more balanced relationship predicated on the principles of responsibility and accountability. The delegation of Saint Kitts and Nevis welcomes the creation of the Office of Internal Oversight Services; its creation is not an end in itself, but a means to ensure that there is greater accountability within the Organization. 3 We must remain cognizant of the fact that the fundamental sovereignty of all States, large or small, is respected equally by the United Nations. If necessary, the United Nations will protect the rights of the small against the power of the large. It has institutionalized the rights of small and micro States to exist and to coexist with the big and powerful nations. All independent States, therefore, irrespective of their size and population, are equal under international law. Every effort should be made, therefore, to enable small States to participate more fully in the day- to-day decision-making process of the United Nations. One way to achieve this is through more equitable geographical representation within the Secretariat, and I appeal for this to be implemented. Another way in which the United Nations can be made more globally inclusive is by bringing more Members into the fold. Last year, my Government called upon the United Nations to begin the process that would lead to the ultimate re-admission of the Republic of China in Taiwan into the United Nations. My Government stands firmly behind that appeal and we repeat this appeal here today. The Republic of China in Taiwan continues to adhere to the Charter of the United Nations and to govern itself by the principles of international and humanitarian law. It has proven repeatedly that it is a country committed to peace, democracy and development, not only for its 21 million people, who are entitled to proper representation internationally, but for all peoples, that their quality of life may be improved. The Republic of China in Taiwan is a major international player in commerce, trade and development assistance, and would make a significant contribution to the work of the United Nations. I would now like to turn our attention to the question of sustainable development and small States, and to commend quite highly the efforts of the United Nations in bringing the reality and concerns of small island developing States to the forefront of international focus. The Declaration of Barbados is a step in the right direction. It recognizes that small island developing States have special and peculiar needs. We, in small island developing States have been saying this for a long time. Our very survival as a people and as independent States is dependent on the sustainable development of our human resources and the maximization of our scarce material resources. These limited material resources are under constant and severe stress despite our efforts. Although we recognize the Conference in Barbados as a giant step for small island developing States, the discussion must be taken much further, beyond conference halls and into communities, and translated into practical tangible benefits. In Saint Kitts and Nevis, for instance, over the past ten years we have been engaged in projects and programmes whereby we seek to create a sound and pragmatic balance between economic and social development, on the one hand, and environmental protection on the other. However, existing problems and innovative attempts by small island developing States to improve their standard of living very rarely receive consistent support from the developed world. Micro States like Saint Kitts and Nevis are being called upon to prove their viability within the international community. The irony lies in the fact that when we manage to raise our standard of living to a decent level, the international community withdraws or reduces its support under the pretext that our GNP per capita is too high. I do not believe that we should have to reiterate the vulnerability index of small States like mine. Although Saint Kitts and Nevis does not produce or use any significant amount of material to damage the ozone layer or contribute to coastal erosion and rising sea levels, we are among those which suffer most as a result of their impact. Small island States like mine suffer greatly from environmental and natural disasters, yet we lack the capacity to respond to and recover from them. The objective reality of our individual and collective experience speaks volumes. We have seen how less than a month ago, tropical storm Debbie — insignificant, really, as a tropical storm, not strong enough to be a hurricane — devastated the banana industry in Saint Lucia, thus wreaking havoc on that country’s economy. We need special attention. We need special regimes. As I have done in the past, I appeal for greater equity within the international economic system. The time has come for the developed world to rethink the outdated policy of trying to make a single prescription fit all countries. We need to develop a more durable, and country-specific approach, based on fairness, economic circumstance and need. Above all, the concept of the vulnerability index must become part of the economic language and armamentarium of all multilateral and national development institutions. Indeed, the developing world should not view our small island Caribbean States as dumping grounds for 4 over-produced consumer items, but see us as developing economies whose fragile banana and sugar exports need to be protected. The Declaration of Barbados underscores the fact that small island States have sovereign rights over their natural resources. The developed world, therefore, cannot claim paternity over our biodiversity under the pretext that their technology was used. Further, on the issue of the environment, I would like to call upon the developed countries to de-link economic assistance, trade and investment from environmental protection. In most cases, small island developing States are penalized for allegedly exploiting limited resources and for so-called environmental degradation. I urge the international community to assist developing countries to obtain the wherewithal to gauge the exploitation of resources and to do environmental impact assessments so as to ensure that the precarious balance is maintained. Social, economic and political advancement in small developing countries should not be held to ransom by the industrialized world as a way of punishing them for environmental degradation. The protection and preservation of the environment is a global responsibility and must engender a collective approach. The industrialized world must take responsibility for much of the damage to the environment and work towards a framework for international cooperation and partnership in preserving it. Developing countries ought to be given assistance and be presented with alternatives to destroying the forest or depleting the limited resources at their disposal. While the international community moves ever closer to the realization of economic blocs, special attention must also be devoted to the fragile commodities export sector in some of these countries, and the need for special regimes to be put in place to ensure the viability of most of these small economies, which do not have the advantage of economies of scale and large consumer markets. I should like to repeat my fervent appeal to Governments of developed countries and to multilateral agencies to become more supportive of and responsive to the needs of small developing countries by providing the technical assistance, information-sharing, technology transfer and investments, and to promote human resource development through education and training. I call on the international community to honour its commitment made in Barbados in May 1994: “The international community should cooperate with small island developing States in the implementation of the Programme of Action ... by providing effective means, including adequate, predictable new and additional financial resources in accordance with chapter 33 of Agenda 21; facilitating the transfer of environmentally sound technology, including on concessional and preferential terms as mutually agreed”. (A/CONF.167/9, Annex I, Part Two, III.1) This will ensure success in achieving our goal of sustainable development. There is nothing more noble than the gift of life. At the important and historic World Summit for Children of 1990, participating Governments agreed to make the world a much safer place for future generations of children. At the United Nations Conference on small States, we decided to commit our efforts to the efficient use of land resources, to work towards creating better education and improved health care, and to exploit natural resources on a sustainable basis. If we achieve this, we shall indeed be bequeathing to our children and their children a much safer world. It is against the backdrop of safeguarding our children’s future that the Government of St. Kitts and Nevis participated in the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo. We fully support the view that the issue of population control must be addressed. Although we share the view that a population explosion may eventually threaten the Earth’s capacity to provide in a sustainable manner, we do not believe that simply trying to control population growth will by itself solve the serious problems that we are facing today. My Government is of the view that a concerted attempt to redeploy much of the world’s resources, to discover new resources and to use them more equitably would better serve the interest of development for all peoples. I cannot but remind us all that the international menace of drugs and drug trafficking still looms large. The danger and the trade are ever-increasing. We should continue to wage a determined and aggressive war on drug trafficking and narco-terrorism, which seek to undermine and unravel the social and political fabric of our societies. 5 The challenges facing the United Nations are monumental, but not more so than those facing individual nations, large or small, or individuals in poor communities, as well as in affluent societies. We occupy a global common. Therefore, we must together find practical solutions to the problems of hunger, poverty, war, crime, development and freedom in every corner of our world. If we fail, none will be secure, none will be at peace, none will be free. Allow me to begin my address by offering my congratulations to Mr. Amara Essy on the assumption of his new office. I should also like to express my respect for the excellent diplomatic skills demonstrated by his predecessor, Ambassador Insanally, during a period of momentous change. I am also pleased to convey my sincere congratulations to the Republic of South Africa, which, having renounced apartheid, was reinstated as a full Member of the United Nations at the previous session of the General Assembly. The United Nations is now expected to play a greater role than ever before. Recalling the blessings bestowed upon Japan by the international community at the time of its admission into this Organization, I intend to conduct a proactive foreign policy that will enable Japan to contribute, on a level commensurate with its political and economic status, to the future well-being of humankind. At the outset, I should like to discuss Japan’s basic philosophy regarding its international contributions. Japan is engaged in economic assistance and various other efforts in order to eradicate poverty and achieve economic development, as well as to prevent conflicts and remove destabilizing factors. Reflecting with remorse upon the Second World War, Japan has never wavered from its commitment to contribute to world peace and prosperity. Japan does not, nor will it, resort to the use of force, prohibited by its Constitution. Japan will remain resolutely a nation of peace. Neither possessing nuclear arms nor exporting weapons, Japan continues to be actively engaged in disarmament and non-proliferation efforts. In accordance with what I have just stated, Japan has dispatched members of its Self-Defence Forces, as well as civilian personnel, to several countries, including Cambodia and Mozambique, in response to requests by the United Nations. Japan intends to continue to cooperate actively in such United Nations peace-keeping operations. 12 At the same time, Japan is determined to enhance its contributions to efforts on global issues in economic and social areas. These issues, whose importance is now widely recognized, include development, the environment, human rights, refugees, population, AIDS and narcotics. Today, the first area on which the United Nations should focus its efforts is the maintenance of international peace and security; the second is the resolution of economic and social problems. And if it is to carry out these two very important tasks effectively, it must undertake a third: the promotion of United Nations reform. I should like on this occasion to outline my views as to the kind of contributions Japan wishes to make in these areas. In the maintenance of international peace and security, which is the first area of concern to the United Nations, Japan places great emphasis on disarmament and non-proliferation, diplomatic efforts for the resolution of conflicts, and peace-keeping operations. As the only country to have suffered a nuclear attack, and adhering firmly to its three non-nuclear principles, Japan strives to achieve the ultimate goal of eliminating all nuclear weapons. Toward this end, it urges all nuclear-weapon States to redouble their efforts to reduce their nuclear arsenals. Further, Japan supports the indefinite extension of the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty, and calls on all States that have not yet acceded to the Treaty to do so at the earliest opportunity. At the same time, I would urge, in particular, all nuclear-weapon States to engage more actively in the negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty and to strive to bring them to an early and successful conclusion. I wish to propose that, once the negotiations on the treaty are concluded, a ceremony for its signing by Heads of State or Government be held in Japan, for example in the city of Hiroshima, and that it be made a new starting-point for the elimination of nuclear weapons once and for all. In this connection, Japan strongly calls upon North Korea to engage seriously in efforts to resolve the issue of its development of nuclear weapons through international dialogue, including its talks with the United States. The unfettered transfer and excessive accumulation of conventional weapons is another destabilizing factor in many regions of the world today. In the civil wars we have witnessed in certain regions of Africa and elsewhere, for example, it has resulted in the escalation of combat and in enormous loss of life. It is my belief that the international community must seriously consider concrete measures to solve this problem. In this regard, the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms, designed to improve the transparency of arms transfers, has grown increasingly important as an effective measure for building confidence at the global level. More than 80 countries participate in the Register at present, and we strongly hope that many more will join. Japan will work together with other Member States to amplify and strengthen the Register by, for example, also including arms stockpiles in it. The prevention and settlement of regional conflicts requires a comprehensive approach which combines diplomatic efforts, United Nations peace-keeping operations, humanitarian aid, assistance for building social institutions, and aid for peace-building, such as rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance. Convinced of the importance of taking measures before conflicts become intractable, I am a strong advocate of the vigorous promotion of preventive diplomacy. From this viewpoint, I believe we should, in cooperation with the countries concerned, actively consider extending assistance for the stabilization of social and political conditions in regions or countries where there are elements of instability. United Nations peace-keeping operations have proved successful in Cambodia and many other regions, and they are expected to play an increasingly important role. Further improvement of the effectiveness of peace-keeping operations will require closer examination of, inter alia, their mandates, duration, scale of activities and cost, as well as full consideration of the safety of personnel. Strengthening the financial base of United Nations peace-keeping operations is an urgent task. It is necessary, in particular, that Member States that are in arrears pay their assessed contributions. It is also imperative that ways be sought to put peace-keeping operations on a sounder financial basis. Japan, for its part, will enhance its support for democratization with a view to helping peace take root after the fighting has ceased. It places particular importance on assisting efforts to hold free and fair elections. Responding to the unspeakably tragic situation of the Rwandan refugees, Japan has provided both financial assistance and material support through the United 13 Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda. The Government of Japan has decided to dispatch more than 400 members of its self-defence forces to the region to provide assistance in such areas as medical treatment, water supply and air transport. Some of these activities have already commenced. Working together with the international community - particularly with the countries of Africa - Japan is determined to continue its efforts toward a solution of the Rwandan issue. With regard to the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, Japan continues to support the efforts of the international community to restore peace. It calls upon all the disputing parties concerned to accept the peace plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina devised by the Contact Group and to cooperate with the activities of the United Nations there. The second task of the United Nations is the solution of problems in economic and social areas, including those regarding development, the environment and human rights. With the changing international circumstances, the issue of development is now re-emerging as a global concern; a new strategy for development is thus called for. It is from this viewpoint that Japan has been advocating a development strategy that entails a comprehensive approach, combining assistance, trade, investment, and the transfer of technology, as well as a differentiated approach, tailored to the needs of developing countries according to their respective stages of development. The International Conference on African Development, held in Tokyo last year, proved to be a worthwhile forum for the discussion of how such a development strategy might be realized. In an effort to build upon the results of that Conference, an Asia-Africa seminar will be convened in Indonesia this December. In today’s world, South-South cooperation, where more advanced developing countries share their experience and technology with other developing countries, is of increasing significance. Japan intends to suggest concrete plans for the promotion of South-South cooperation around the globe. Moreover, as the world’s largest donor country, Japan continues its efforts to expand its official development assistance. In extending such assistance, it gives full consideration to such factors as trends in the recipient country’s military expenditures and in its development and production of weapons of mass destruction, as well as its efforts to promote democracy and to introduce a market-oriented economy. It is my hope that meaningful discussions of an Agenda for Development will take place at the current session of the General Assembly and that the points I have just mentioned will be taken into account. At this time of increasing global interdependence, all humankind is confronted with new challenges, such as environmental and population problems, which can be overcome only through close cooperative efforts between industrialized and developing countries. Japan, for its part, is actively engaged in environmental- protection efforts. For example, it is working to strengthen the international framework for such efforts, to transfer relevant technologies to developing countries, and to expand and strengthen its official development assistance in environmental areas. With regard to population and AIDS, in February of this year Japan launched its Global Issues Initiative, under which it is greatly expanding assistance to developing countries to address these problems. At the International Conference on Population and Development, recently convened in Cairo, I stressed the importance of finding a solution to issues relating to population. Japan is profoundly aware that human-resources development and the further advancement of the status of women, achieved through international cooperation, have important implications for social stability. We therefore eagerly anticipate the successful outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and the Fourth World Conference on Women, which will be convened next year. By the same token, Japan actively participates in the Women-in-Development programmes and other social- development activities administered by the various United Nations agencies. Economic development and human rights may be likened to the front and rear wheels of a vehicle: they must work in tandem to advance the development of democratic societies. In order to encourage respect for human rights as universal values and to improve effectively the human rights situation in every country, it is important to make continuous efforts to establish legal systems and to raise awareness of human rights, in addition to promoting political, economic and social stability. Toward this end, Japan will cooperate in every way possible to assist the work of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. 14 If it is to carry out effectively its two major tasks - maintaining international peace and security and resolving economic and social problems - the United Nations must make a serious effort to adapt to the new era by undertaking structural reform as well as administrative and budgetary reform. As the United Nations seeks to strengthen its activities through reform, the restructuring of the Security Council is of particular importance. Today the activities of the Security Council span a wide range of issues relating to world peace and stability. While the membership of the United Nations has grown from 51 countries in 1945 to 184 countries at the present time, the composition of the Council, which was intended to reflect the world situation as it existed when the United Nations was established, has remained virtually unchanged. In the interim, we have witnessed the emergence of countries that are capable of shouldering greater international responsibilities. It is therefore necessary to restructure and strengthen the Security Council, while ensuring its efficiency, so that it may reflect world realities. In keeping with Japan’s basic philosophy regarding international contributions, which I outlined earlier, I wish to state that Japan is prepared, with the endorsement of many countries, to discharge its responsibilities as a permanent member of the Security Council. It is my hope that United Nations Member States will accelerate the deliberations on this subject during the current session and that an agreement will be reached on a reform plan in time for the commemorative fiftieth session of the General Assembly next year. The Security Council is not the only organ requiring reform. The General Assembly, in which 184 States participate, also needs to be reinvigorated, and it must coordinate its activities more closely with those of other United Nations agencies. Recently, efforts have begun to fine-tune United Nations activities in economic and social fields, such as development, the environment and human rights, and to establish clear priorities among them. In addressing these issues, which have profound implications for the future of humankind, it is necessary to continue to work towards the functional and organizational strengthening of the Economic and Social Council. The Trusteeship Council, by contrast, has completed its historic mission, and it is my view that it would be appropriate, in the context of the reform of the United Nations as a whole, to consider its abolishment. Building on the creation of the Office of Internal Oversight Services at the last session of the General Assembly, we must redouble our efforts to promote administrative and budgetary reform. The passage of a half century since the signing of the United Nations Charter has rendered the so-called 'former enemy clauses' meaningless. Japan continues to seek their deletion from the text of the Charter. I have focused my remarks today on the three challenges facing the United Nations: the maintenance of international peace and security, the resolution of economic and social issues and the need for the reform of the Organization. If the United Nations pursues reform to meet the changing needs of the times and supports and expands cooperation among its Member States, I have every confidence that it will enhance its legitimacy as a universal organization and develop a capacity to respond to new challenges even more effectively. In closing, I would like to call upon all Member States to cooperate to ensure that this will be remembered as the historic session of the General Assembly that ushered in a new era for the United Nations. As we who are gathered here deliver our statements, a small and impoverished Caribbean nation is being subjected to military occupation. The inconceivable deal struck with the generals responsible for the coup d'etat - yesterday threatened as murderers, but today turned into complacent partners - ignores the decisions of the international community and the will of the Haitian people. The fundamental principles of the United Nations Charter - indeed, the authority of the Security Council and of the United Nations itself - are among the victims of this unfortunate event, as they have been totally ignored in actions carried out allegedly on their behalf. History is repeating itself. It was the guns of invaders and the boots of foreign occupants that installed in Haiti the various dictatorships of this century and trained and supported those who are still perpetrating tyranny on their people. How, then, can we trust them to promote democracy in the future? Cuba has always supported and promoted efforts to restore the constitutional order in Haiti with the unconditional and unrestricted return of President Aristide and has rejected the attempts to resort to foreign intervention as a means of resolving the conflict. At the appropriate time, Cuba denounced the Security Council's decision to go along with the violation of the Charter by some of its members and to join in their interventionist designs. Now that we are faced with a fait accompli, we can do nothing except reiterate our Government's position: those who are today applauding the invasion could become tomorrow's victims. It is clear that an essential component of this tragedy is the manipulation to which the United Nations - an organization born under the pretext of the sovereign equality of its members - has been subjected. Cuba reiterates its firm rejection of the attempts to adopt unilateral decisions on issues of vital importance to all peoples and of the abuse of the anachronistic privilege of the veto, granted by the Charter to a group of States with permanent membership of the Security Council. It is urgent to ensure that democracy prevails in international relations and in the United Nations. We must ensure respect for the Charter and put an end to its systematic violation by the most powerful. On this the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations it is imperative that the Organization be democratized without any delay. The time has come for this institution to stop catering to the interests of a handful of big Powers. Mr. Mishra (India), Vice-President, took the Chair. The President of the Assembly, a distinguished son of the African continent whose election to the presidency honours us all, is well aware that Somalia is still fresh in our minds. The tragedy of hunger and starvation in that sisterly nation has continued, even if television newsreels no longer show the horrible pictures that served as a prelude to the so-called humanitarian invasion sponsored by this Organization. In spite of such invasions, Haiti and Somalia will continue to be poor countries. The evils of the third world are not resolved through military occupations, which are merely used to serve selfish interests. In both cases, which have already become dangerous precedents, the Security Council acted under pressure from a big Power, which monopolized the implementation of these actions and even prevented the majority of Member States from voicing their views. In both cases, under the alleged authority of the Security Council, neutrality and impartiality, essential principles of that body, were violated. These are examples of the Security Council's illegitimate foray into areas beyond its mandate: intervention based on vague arguments of humanitarian protection, or the authorizing of one or several States to take unilateral punitive actions, under Chapter VII of the Charter, in operations of invasion, occupation and intervention. In fact, what is at stake is the sovereignty, self- determination and political independence of countless countries, mainly but not only of the third world. Attempts are being made, at the expense of the suffering of a number of peoples, and without their consent, to openly give carte blanche and a predominant role to the Security Council regarding issues alien to its mandate and on which this Organization has no prerogative whatsoever. There is no doubt that the specific functioning of the Security Council deserves careful consideration, and that this body must become democratic, with an enlarged membership more representative of the countries of the third world. Poor and small countries are rightly entitled to be present on the Council and to demand that it follow equitable and transparent procedures in its activities. There should be permanent members from Latin America, Africa, and the developing countries in Asia. Membership should not be the preserve of large economic Powers associated with the West. The Security Council cannot arrogate to itself powers that have not been invested in it, nor overstep the Organization that created it and to which it is accountable. The General Assembly must assert its control over the actions of the Security Council and demand that it respect the Charter. There should also be greater response to the interests of the developing world in other areas of the Organization. The crucial problems of its peoples are not and cannot be resolved with invasions nor with allegedly humanitarian military operations. Nor can they be resolved with emergency assistance programmes whose only aim is to mitigate the most alarming consequences of structural underdevelopment. If the international community and the United Nations, its most representative organization, do not adopt the timely measures and programmes required to develop the third world, we will be using this forum to debate the causes and consequences of the arrival of underdevelopment in the first world. The growing concerns of industrialized countries over immigration issues is quite illustrative, as confirmed by the debates undertaken in the recently concluded International Conference on Population and Development. It is clear that concepts regarding cooperation imposed from the North are prevailing, with flashy titles but devoid of any practical meaning for the solution of the problems brought about by poverty, and tending to mutilate the right to development for which peoples of the world are clamouring. Although concepts such as sustainable development, human development or sustainable human development may contain defensible ideals from a theoretical point of view, they are actually being used to corrode the commitments achieved during long years of efforts aimed at facilitating international cooperation for development on a just and democratic basis. Unacceptable conditions and interference in the domestic policy of States are thus being imposed, and attempts are being made to fix strategic priorities for development in countries that, though poor, are sovereign and independent. Hence, the right to development proclaimed by this Organization is being subordinated to the interests of the large transnational economic powers, which are actually continuing to dictate the rules and practices of international economic relations. The United Nations agenda for development must not be allowed to replace the International Strategy for Development and other important instruments that were the result of the efforts of the developing countries to defend their interests and on which they exhibited great flexibility and the ability to compromise. Nor should the United Nations continue to be allowed to be used for the imposition of neo-liberal economic models, bringing backwardness and misery to millions of persons in exchange for short-term economic growth benefiting only the elitist minorities in third world countries and their partners in the affluent North. The fundamental approach, in Cuba's view, should be focused on comprehensive economic growth based on justice and equity to meet pressing social needs. International economic relations must be restructured on the basis of effective, just, equitable and non-discriminatory cooperation with the countries of the South. Poverty is not a predestined fate, let alone a human right, no matter how hard the rich countries try to prove otherwise. As long as universal respect for human rights continues to be manipulated by a handful of rich nations, the have-nots of the South will continue to play the role of the accused, with the affluent societies in the North playing the parts of judge and jury. All attempts to impose as universal dogmas systems of government designed by the privileged nations of the first world, regardless of the different social, economic, historical and cultural realities of the third world, are unacceptable and doomed to failure. We must also put an end to hypocrisy. It would be unforgivable for us to remain indifferent to the tragedy of humankind while wasting our efforts on elitist concerns. War, xenophobia, neo-fascism and racism are proliferating in our midst; the degradation of women and children is increasing; unemployment is on the rise; the environment is deteriorating and the culture of entire populations and nationalities is being crushed. Millions of human beings are afflicted by poverty and starvation; they are denied access to basic medical care and education. Yet the United Nations has done very little indeed to deal with these issues as what they really are: clear violations of human rights. Countries that are struggling, on the basis of equity and justice, to attain their development are really working in favour of the human rights of their peoples; countries that prevent us from developing are violating the human rights of our populations. The Association of Caribbean States was recently established as a means of responding to the globalization of the international economy and of strengthening cooperation among the States, countries and territories of our region. We, the peoples of the Caribbean, are conscious of the fact that only by closely reconciling our interests can we become competitive markets. That new organization, brought into being by urgent needs, contributes, together with the Ibero-American Summits, to promoting the indispensable economic integration and joint analysis of common strategies in an environment that links us through history and culture. As an integral part of that community of Latin American and Caribbean nations, Cuba has decided to sign, at the appropriate moment, the Tlatelolco Treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in our region. It is well-known that warships armed with nuclear weapons are anchored both in the portion of our territory illegally occupied by the United States and in neighbouring Puerto Rico. Without renouncing our demand for their withdrawal, we subscribe to the noble aims of Tlatelolco. We do so as testimony to our will to join with the rest of Latin America and the Caribbean, as a gesture towards our brothers in the region, and out of a desire to broaden our mechanisms for reconciliation and dialogue. At the Ibero-American Summits, held since 1991, Latin peoples south of the Rio Bravo have for the first time met exclusively among themselves to discuss issues of common interest. Meanwhile, another Summit has been convened in, of all places, Miami. All the Governments in America except the one I represent have been invited. It is said that three main issues will be discussed: free trade, collective security and the promotion of programmes to alleviate extreme poverty. We will have to determine which of the two Americas stands to reap the greater benefit from the Miami Summit. If positive results for Latin Americans were to emerge from the meeting, Cuba would sincerely welcome its convening, even if we were not present. It could become an excellent opportunity to demand of our neighbour to the North fair treatment in trade and financial relations, as well as in the transfer of technology, and to request the Host Country to fulfil its obligations in the field of international cooperation. It remains to be seen how a Government that has cancelled its meagre aid programmes to the region could raise the necessary funds to alleviate poverty among the countries convened. Let me now say a few words regarding my homeland. On two consecutive occasions this forum, by an overwhelming majority, has demanded the elimination of the economic, trade and financial blockade imposed upon my country by the Government of the United States. In both cases the United States has replied with silence. It is not, as some would have it, a matter of victory for the blockaded nation and defeat for the blockading nation. Our friends or the Governments that fully support our policies were not the only ones that voted to put an end to this irrational siege. The simple fact is that the great majority of the world is witnessing an action that has no legal justification, moral virtue or ethical principle - an action that violates not only Cuba's sovereignty but also the most basic precepts of international coexistence. It is a policy rejected by all countries that espouse the rule of law and mutual respect in relations between States. In this complex and convulsed world that is supposedly pluralistic, free and democratic, the United States is trying to deny my country, Cuba, its rightful place as a sovereign nation. It is as if two centuries of relations between the two countries meant nothing. What is worse, it is as if the cold war had frozen forever on our tiny spit of land and sun, merely because we had committed the 'sin' of wishing to be free and truly independent a scarce 90 miles from the most powerful country on the planet. My homeland has been subjected to hardships probably greater than those suffered by any other country. With the collapse of socialism in Europe, our markets and our sources of raw materials and financing disappeared overnight. The process of overcoming domestic difficulties and reforming the economic and administrative structures conceived at a certain stage of our socialist project was also disrupted by the reinforcement of the policy of isolation and strangulation that our people had already been stoically facing for years. In the midst of this dangerous combination of elements; despite forecasts, since 1989, of a Cuban collapse, my country has not collapsed, nor will it collapse. We have survived all kinds of strategies, from those promoting terrorist and subversive actions from abroad to those of exerting pressure in different directions in order to reinforce the blockade, which, as I said, this Assembly has rejected for two consecutive years. This does not mean that the plight of my people is no longer harsh and complex. In recognition of the proven patriotism and national dignity of the Cuban people, this world forum should issue an unequivocal appeal for justice and reject once and for all the cruel hostility to which Cuba has been so long subjected. The unequal struggle forced upon us for so many years has not mitigated our love of peace. Cuba still aspires to negotiated solutions to its disputes with any country, provided that those solutions are based on sovereign equality and mutual respect. This Organization is well aware of that. We are a mature and flexible people: civilized and faithful to agreements based on equality and sovereignty. The series of bilateral meetings recently held in New York led to partial solutions to the age-old dispute between Cuba and the United States. The spirit of seriousness and respect that prevailed in those negotiations and the will on the part of both sides to find solutions made it possible to conclude a mutually satisfactory agreement that, if fully implemented, will lay the foundation for the normalization of migratory relations between the two countries. We desire peace with all our neighbours: peace with dignity. Our sovereignty, our independence and the socialism that we freely chose will never be bargaining chips at any negotiating table, nor will we ever demand concessions of such a nature from any country. We are increasingly opening ourselves to the world, without demanding or acceding to conditions. A great Power, however, is blockading us - and is blockading its own people and the sons and daughters of my people who live on its territory, preventing them from assisting and rejoining their families. Such cruelty has no parallel in the history of wholesale violations of human rights. We do not beg, for our national hero, Jose Marti, the centennial of whose death in our struggle for true independence will come next year, taught us that mankind can never be ruled by cowardice and indifference. And, as he instructed, 'We ask the world, certain of its reply, whether the sacrifice of a generous people that is immolating itself in its efforts to open up to the world will meet indifference or hard-heartedness from mankind, for whose sake it is acting.' I should like, first, to congratulate Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire on his well-deserved election as President of the General 24 Assembly at its forty-ninth session and to convey to him our good wishes for every success in his work. The general debate is our chance, as Members of the United Nations, to undertake together an annual review of the Organization’s work - its successes and its failures - and to identify collectively the issues we want to focus on. With the fiftieth anniversary next year, there is a pressing need to do so. That will be the occasion to chart our new priorities for the twenty-first century. Our responses to some of today’s challenges and tragedies have ranged from excellent but often under-reported to woefully inadequate and, consequently, defiantly reported. The peoples of the world want to believe in the United Nations and what it should achieve. If, however, within some parts of the Organization we are bereft of purpose and intentions this golden anniversary threatens to be less joyous and more muted than many of us anticipated. New Zealand has a strong vested interest in the United Nations success, as do most small States. The New Zealand people have always believed in the United Nations, in a collective approach to the resolution of global and regional problems. This has been demonstrated by strong support for the United Nations by successive Governments. From our experience of - and I do not hesitate to say this - a turbulent two years on the Security Council and as a committed founder Member of the Organization, I would like to take this opportunity to offer some observations about the problems we see as players in the collective decision-making process. When New Zealand took part in the founding of the United Nations we and many others saw our primary purpose as providing for a system of collective security. Until very recently that was little more than a vision. With the end of the confrontation between two super-Power blocs, the goal of 'the organized common peace', of which President Woodrow Wilson spoke so eloquently three generations ago, presents itself. We must not let it slip from our grasp this time. It will, however, take real effort and real determination. Collective security, or working together, is the cornerstone of the security of small States. Today they are the overwhelming majority of the membership of this Organization. New Zealanders recognize that peace is indivisible, that remoteness is certainly no safeguard: a problem in any part of the world can ripple to the Earth’s farthest corners. While we are the country probably most distant from the Balkans conflict, we have sent an enhanced company of soldiers to help in efforts to ease suffering and, I earnestly hope with the will of the parties involved, one day bring peace throughout the former Yugoslavia. For the same reasons, our defence personnel can be found engaged in peace-support operations in Africa, the Middle East, Asia and most recently Haiti. And there are New Zealand nurses, firefighters and aid workers spread around the globe in support. Against this backdrop, however, New Zealanders are puzzled at times by the way in which the United Nations carries out some of its important tasks. In Bosnia, despite the employment of what is by any standards a large, well- armed and well-trained force, people see on their television screens nightly the frustration of the United Nations Protection Force by small groups of irregulars, a single policeman or even small groups of non-combatants. In Haiti they witnessed a boat full of Blue Berets turned away by a small group of pistol-toting thugs unconvincingly called 'attachés'. And what can one say about the appalling tragedy in Rwanda? How can so much hatred have been unleashed so viciously, killing hundreds of thousands? What we watched with horror on our television screens was destruction on a scale we thought only megaton bombs were capable of. The systematic slaughter of men, women and children simply because of their ethnic origin leaves us all outraged. There are no easy answers. But the first key to unlocking the possibilities for a genuine collective security must be the proper application of the United Nations Charter. We have to decide at exactly what point the United Nations should get involved in the peacemaking operation. Do we recognize a problem, and, if we do, is the preventive diplomacy that we so firmly believe in occurring? In my view, we have to follow the intention of the Charter. First, at the outset of a crisis, or even the signs of a crisis, we have to make more serious efforts through that preventive diplomacy to resolve problems and conflicts by negotiation. Efforts must be made at an early 25 stage to address the root causes of conflicts by the Security Council’s exercising all its responsibilities under Chapter VI of the Charter. However, on some occasions, in these days of modern media technology, we face the dilemma caused by the divergence between what the public perceives as happening and what is the reality. Extensive media coverage puts pressure on for immediate response. In the case of Rwanda, that was appropriate. In other circumstances, the media oversimplify and ignore the fact that conditions on the ground are chaotic and United Nations resources are over-stretched. A second area where the Charter could be more carefully applied is when disputes are first placed before the Council. I believe it should give affected States an adequate hearing before addressing the problem behind closed doors. Our experience on the Security Council suggests the investment in openness that would be achieved by developing a practice of collectively hearing directly from the parties involved would be worthwhile, even if it were done only informally. In the same vein, the Charter specifically contemplates the involvement, without vote, of troop-contributing countries in significant decisions. New Zealand has pressed this issue for some time, but so far with limited success. The time is coming, in fact, when the General Assembly will have to address the question if the Security Council does not respond adequately to the concerns that have been raised. Under the Charter, much is expected of the Council’s permanent members. There is no doubt that they can and do contribute greatly to the work of the United Nations. Leadership and sacrifices by the large Powers were, for example, instrumental in successfully challenging aggression against the small State of Kuwait three-and-a- half years ago. I emphasize again, however, the importance of the collective nature of decision-making in the Security Council. Making distinctions between the views of the 'P5' and the rest is not really healthy. The Council is a team of 15. It must work together, and by that I mean giving full weight to the views of all its members. The strength of the Security Council is enhanced each year by the vigorous enthusiasm brought by new members on 1 January, testing what may have become an accepted second-best. I would remind the Assembly that the Charter clearly envisages that the norm for operations to maintain international peace and security will be United Nations operations. National operations are not ruled out, of course. I wish therefore to highlight and question recent trends toward coalitions under national command, and the implications for the collective security needs of small and distant countries where no strategic interest is involved. However, the Security Council will be judged on its effectiveness. Successes, hopefully, will outweigh failures, but we all have an obligation to improve the success rate. I am an enthusiastic supporter of improving our success rate, but much of that will come down to the way in which issues are managed. And it is that question of the management of issues that I wish to address. In our experience, the key is to use management tools based on proven modern public- and private-sector experience. This is very valuable. What are these tools? And how do we apply them to the conduct of peace- keeping operations? I would suggest that there are six critical elements: first, a sustainable financial system; secondly, a transparent political accountability; thirdly, clear objectives that incorporate regular reviews; fourthly, a clear, unambiguous command and control structure; fifthly, a credible legal regime that guarantees the security of United Nations personnel; and, sixthly, the availability of resources so that objectives can be met quickly and efficiently. Let me go back to that first point, a sustainable financial system. There is no doubt that the Organization is facing a financial crisis that cannot be ignored. We have had serious problems with reserves and we have significant debt to contributing countries. The largest contributor has indicated that it will unilaterally reduce its share of funding from October next year. The situation is not sustainable. It requires urgent action. Why do we have this crisis? There are some simple answers. Some members cannot pay; others will not pay; and some are arguing the legitimacy of their assessment. The General Assembly, this body, must confront this issue. The United Nations must stop extending credit to non-payers. There is enough evidence emerging to suggest that there may be serious inequities in the present system. 26 Some countries with extraordinarily strong growth over the past 5 to 10 years appear in the revised scale issued by the Committee on Contributions with a constant or even reduced contribution level. That is not acceptable. It must be remedied. We do not want a hollow celebration on the fiftieth anniversary with a cash crisis hanging over the Organization. We must make a commitment to resolve this crisis before the conclusion of the forty-ninth session. The next point is the need for political accountability. There is in my view a parallel priority to develop and improve the Organization’s capacity for undertaking its collective security responsibilities. To do that we need to put in place more transparent procedures throughout the Organization. The management of peace-keeping operations is allocated to the Secretariat. This is necessary and appropriate in the same way any Government delegates responsibility for a complex operation to its public service. However, and I speak as a politician and as a Minister responsible for the management and oversight of Government departments, the days are long gone when a public service mandarin could run a department or major operation without detailed political oversight. This is not a promotion of micro-management, nor am I implying any criticism of the Secretariat staff. But as any politician holding executive office in today’s democracies knows, the classic recipe for a failed project is for those who are politically accountable to lose track of implementation or to lose the game plan. We saw that all too clearly in the past year in Somalia. Ironically, the Security Council had, in resolution 814 (1993), already foreseen the need in the case of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II) for a detailed political accountability and provided for a committee to follow the operation closely. But the committee was never established. New Zealand has proposed in the Security Council that a committee or an ad hoc working group should be established to fill this gap and enhance the accountability of the Organization to its politically responsible representatives. I certainly remain hopeful that progress can be made in this area. The third point I draw to the attention of members is the need for clear objectives with regular reviews. Clearer mission objectives must be developed and kept under review. I am delighted that some progress has in fact been made. The Council is now identifying more closely the terms of mandates for United Nations operations, and it is becoming usual to build a specific review cycle into its mandates. But there are still two areas of weakness. First, there is a great deal of mythology about and very little sound analysis of the circumstances in which force should be used by United Nations operations. Many believe this is governed by the use or non-use of the words 'Chapter VII'. This could well be a false conclusion. The rules of engagement rather than abstract reference to the Charter are much more likely to determine actual behaviour in the field. I am not alone in believing that there is a need to develop greater commonality in military doctrine for United Nations peace-keeping operations. This is especially relevant when so many peace-keeping contributors are regularly placed side by side in the field. It is, however, particularly urgent in the face of new-style operations of the intra-country type where the use of force by factions, not necessarily Governments, is the challenge for this body to overcome. It is clear that common principles are necessary to guide peace-keepers on the appropriate use of force when they take part in operations in pursuit of an agreed United Nations strategic objective. As for the review, while there are plenty of mid-term reviews there is, as yet, no systematic process of review at the end of an operation. The budget of every peace-keeping operation should include provision, as a principal line item, for the preparation of a comprehensive review of the operation’s achievements relative to the mandate set. Such reviews should be separate from the financial performance review and should address the substance of the operation and seek to identify all relevant lessons for the conduct of future operations. I address now the question of command and control. There is a weakness in the command and control structures and they do need attention. It is true the personnel of national defence forces which contribute forces to the United Nations legally remain in their country’s national service. But as I see it, parallel to the allocation of responsibility to the United Nations Force Commander must be a recognition that the national command structure will not seek to direct their forces in operational matters. If the national command authority has serious difficulties, then the appropriate course of action in all cases - except an emergency - is for the issue 27 to be resolved with United Nations Headquarters. If resolution is not possible the unit should be withdrawn. I come to the question of the safety of peace-keeping personnel. A major requirement for effective collective security is that countries contributing troops and civilian personnel should have confidence that their personnel in the field will have the best possible support to ensure their safety and security. That is an issue which, as many members know, New Zealand has pursued relentlessly during its time on the Council. It bears on the level of equipment with which the forces are outfitted and there is plenty of room for improvement. In addition, the legal regime under which peace- keeping operations are conducted needs to reflect the extraordinary personal risk which United Nations personnel are undertaking on behalf of us all in carrying out collective security operations. It is right that such personnel should be differentiated from soldiers in an armed conflict and that there should be a higher standard of legal responsibility for anybody who attacks them. I urge all members of the Assembly to support New Zealand’s initiative on this issue currently in the Sixth Committee, that the necessary flexibility be shown on outstanding issues and that we make a really determined effort to complete work on the draft convention this year. The question of resources is always before us. In my sixth point I would say that a critical tool for effective collective security is a strategy for resource availability. The situation we all saw recently in Rwanda is a classic case. Human resources were available but they lacked training and they lacked equipment. But there is also the need for a capacity in all peace-keeping operations for a forceful response in self-defence. There are important lessons to be learned from the troop losses in Rwanda last April and again I draw attention to the linkage between mandates, rules of engagement, doctrine and planning. The United Nations will have to go beyond the current work being done on stand-by forces to address this problem. We believe that there is a case for redirecting a substantial portion of bilateral military assistance into forms of training that would better assist defence forces with the requirements of peace-keeping operations. There is also a role for the United Nations maintaining the physical equivalent of the peace-keeping reserve fund that it is supposed to have on the financial side now. A quick start-up capability, with owned or leased equipment immediately available to the United Nations, would have made a significant difference in the Rwanda situation. This is a practical and feasible step that can be taken to ensure that future collective security can in fact rise to the challenge. I have spoken about the factors that need to be taken into account in managing peace-keeping operations. I now wish to address the terms of their engagements. The United Nations should not be expected to take responsibility for a situation of up to 30 years because the parties to a conflict are unable or unwilling to summon up the necessary political will to reach a settlement. There comes a point when the parties must take their fate in their own hands rather than the Council avoiding the hard decisions just by rolling over the mandates. At the same time, a range of different considerations should prevail when the United Nations reaches the end of a successful peace-keeping process. The United Nations cannot simply walk away when a perceived end point - such as an election - has been achieved, because there may still be outstanding issues that need the ongoing support of the operation, such as humanitarian operations or local capability-building programmes to help provide the required sound administration. The United Nations deserves congratulations on its achievements in Cambodia, for example, but the future there is still not certain, and the United Nations must maintain its responsibilities. Rehabilitation in that country must continue. Another example of a situation in which peacemaking and peace-building have to be seen as a coherent whole is in the area of demining. This is a critically important humanitarian function. New Zealand’s military forces have had a lot of experience in helping the United Nations with demining in Afghanistan, Cambodia and, most recently, Mozambique. The Security Council Mission that visited Mozambique about two months ago reported its dismay at the delays and at the state of the programme generally. At the request of the United Nations, New Zealand stepped in early in August and began the rescue effort for the programme. The wheel should not have had to be reinvented. It is a concern that lessons learned from earlier operations such as Afghanistan and Cambodia do not appear to be retained. Having seen firsthand the 28 effects of mines in Cambodia, I do believe we should move more expeditiously than the speed of the present performance. New Zealand certainly looks forward to working with other delegations to improve performance in this area, and I would certainly add that my Government was most interested in the comments President Clinton made here yesterday about the proposal for the elimination of the world’s 85 million anti-personnel land-mines. This is an urgent task. No one who has seen firsthand the human cost of mines can offer anything less than full cooperation to this end. Finally, when we look ahead to what would really enhance proper use of the collective security powers, we have to conclude that reform of the Security Council is a major task waiting to be fulfilled. Many of the things I have discussed today require reforms by the Security Council, or at least in conjunction with it. But I cannot escape the conclusion that even if all of these were accomplished, the political legitimacy of the Security Council could still erode over a period of time. Ultimately it could lose the credibility vital to the role it carries out. Collective security requires the Council to be genuinely representative of the entire United Nations membership. We have, of course, as many others have done, followed the debate on Security Council reform in the Open-ended Working Group set up last year. We hear the case made for additional permanent members. We also hear overwhelming support for expanding the number of non-permanent members of the Council. There are shades of difference on the numbers for the total membership, but consensus does seem to be emerging around five or six new members. We consider that a limited expansion of the number of members, paying regard to an equitable geographical participation, is still a priority for the health of the Organization. It is time to do what is achievable and what benefits most Members. Given the need for 122 ratifications, we are aware that even a simple expansion, hopefully adopted next year, will take several years to come into force. It would not be unrealistic, therefore, for the year 2000 to see the first meeting of the expanded Council. There is no worth in being critical of some aspects of the United Nations without believing, as I do, that the problems can be cured. We, all 184 of us, are its doctors, and we need to act quickly. We need to apportion our costs fairly and systematically. We need to share peace- keeping tasks, peace-keeping funding and peace-keeping supplies. We need to accept the democratic decisions of this Organization. We also need to adjust to the more complex and interrelated United Nations agendas of the future. I therefore leave with the Assembly New Zealand’s assurance of a renewed commitment to this unique and essential body and of our willingness to work in that spirit to ensure the continued relevance of the United Nations for the next half-century. I would be disloyal to the feelings of the delegation of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea if I did not from the outset join with the preceding speakers in expressing my best wishes to you and congratulating you on your well-deserved election to the Presidency of this General Assembly. I wish you every success and assure you of the complete cooperation of my delegation. Please convey my congratulations also to the other members of the General Committee, whose work is not always given due recognition. We also commend the work accomplished by Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, who presided over the last session of the General Assembly. And I wish to express special appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our distinguished Secretary- General, for his deep commitment to the search for viable solutions to the problems and difficulties confronting mankind today. This forty-ninth session of the General Assembly is being held at a time when the international community is expressing its concern at the bleak panorama that the world offers us, and more than ever is proclaiming its right to preserve peace and the socio-political and economic stability of the world. This session of the General Assembly, therefore, must not disappoint these pressing aspirations of the human community, which has every reason to continue to consider the United Nations as the hope of mankind. It is illogical and inconceivable to the peoples of our world that after the fall of the ideological borders that shaped the bipolar world, we should again be confronted with new burdens and contradictions. My country is deeply concerned at the negative effect of the wave of violence in many parts of the world today. In record time, we have seen evidence of many sources of tension and conflicts that wipe out many years of United Nations efforts. Everywhere panic and uncertainty prevail, owing to the intolerance and arbitrariness that are real threats to world peace. None the less, it would seem that we all want to close our eyes and act as though we did not know the causes of this instability. For the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, the causes are all interdependent: poverty, inequality in relations among nations, unemployment, ignorance, and political and religious intolerance. This forty-ninth session of our General Assembly must therefore reflect deeply in order to find a global solution to these common denominators of all our countries. The Republic of Equatorial Guinea wishes to reaffirm here, from this rostrum, the confidence that it has placed in the United Nations and our conviction that this Organization is the ideal framework for resolving the difficult, delicate and complex problems confronting the international community. In this grim international panorama, my country, the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, is endeavouring to preserve internal peace and political stability, and to maintain a strict policy of good-neighbourliness and cooperation with the other countries of central Africa. In this framework, we have been strengthening the internal socio-political structures that make it possible to coordinate an integral, democratic system that guarantees the individual and collective freedoms of our citizens. Indeed in 1991, the Government began a transition on the basis of established constitutional provisions and has been establishing the political environment conducive to political pluralism and a multiparty system. A number of 14 legal regulations now govern the exercise of pluralist democracy in my country. May I mention, among them: the law of political parties, the law of freedom of association and expression, our trade union law, the law of freedom of the press and printed matter, the law of freedom of religion, the law of complaints and petitions, and all the other laws that govern the electoral process. Therefore, the fact is that Equatorial Guinea today is a free, democratic and independent country where peace and stability prevail. With only 400,000 inhabitants, we have 14 political organizations that operate freely and democratically and constitute the pluralist expression of our peoples. None the less, as everyone knows, there are some who, because of their concealed interests, have attempted, and continue to attempt, to thwart the will of some of our political leaders in our democratic process. This is the root cause of the disinformation campaign that is being waged against my country. Allow me to dwell a moment on this point. Because my country is being subjected to a systematic international campaign of disinformation through certain very well- localized media. Hence a negative image is being projected of my country, in total disregard of the efforts that have been made since 1979 by His Excellency Mr. Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, the President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, to restore the respectability and honour of my country after 11 long, bloody years of the dictatorship of Macias Nguema, who was overthrown without anyone helping us. Regarding this campaign of disinformation, there is a saying that I would like to reiterate here: “The truth is one, but untruth is manifold”. Everything depends on the colour of the lens through which one looks. There are some who, because of their own unconfessed interests prefer to continue to look at us through a dark lens; but we ask the international community to assess our actions in a neutral and objective way, without allowing itself to be influenced by third parties. We ask that you view us through a clear lens that will allow you to see the reality. Please do not misunderstand me. We are not against the contribution of the international community to the efforts of the people and Government of Equatorial Guinea for democracy and the promotion of human rights and freedoms, but we do believe that these objectives cannot be achieved by promoting and instigating ungovernability, anarchy and civil disobedience in the developing countries. We see some countries now using the international community’s demand for respect for human rights and democracy to mask activities that are aimed at subjugating developing countries such as Equatorial Guinea. None the less, we would like to point out that in the course of this year, certain donors, such as France and Spain and the United Nations Development Programme, have made a positive contribution to our democratic process by giving moral, technical and economic support to our efforts to consolidate democracy. They have done excellent work. We believe that the escalation of domestic tensions in many African countries today has a common cause: political intolerance, fuelled and promoted by foreign intervention in a country's domestic jurisdiction. However, as the saying goes, “The master’s eye makes the horse fat” — in other words, however they may be assessed or distorted from outside, the realities in each of the countries in those regions exist independently of the interpretations placed on them. We in Equatorial Guinea believe that development and democracy can be promoted only in an atmosphere of peace. We therefore feel that the United Nations should put emphasis on its efforts at preventive action rather than those designed to restore peace or serve as a buffer. Measures such as the dispatch of evaluation or inquiry missions to individual countries can be more effective in avoiding conflicts like those currently taking place in such fraternal and friendly countries as Angola, Rwanda, Liberia, Somalia, the former Yugoslavia and so on. Interventions after the fact have been shown to have limited effectiveness. Some peace-keeping missions and operations in certain conflict areas have also undergone a qualitative change. It is therefore urgent to redirect the mechanisms through which the Organization functions and adapt them to the changes in today's world. We believe that in an increasingly complicated world, and with limited resources, international relations must be complementary. In this sphere the role of the United Nations has become even more decisive. It is hardly useful for some to attempt to monopolize the solution to the world's problems if we do not all feel sincerely involved. As an earlier speaker in the general debate noted, there can be neither peace nor justice if discrimination exists in international relations. My country hopes that the new world scene will witness the implementation of procedures for sincere international cooperation on behalf of those countries that 15 need it most, those countries that are struggling not just to maintain the quality of life but often for their very survival. The poverty and misery in all the countries on Earth calls for action by others to remedy their plight. United Nations efforts in the maintenance of international peace and security contrast with the limited progress achieved in economic and social development. The global chasm separating rich and poor is steadily widening. We need the solidarity of the industrialized countries, on mutually agreed terms, if we developing countries are to find a definitive solution to our external- debt problem, the burden of which is another obstacle to progress and greater social development. It would be most promising if agreement could be reached on the mechanisms to solve this economic, financial and socio-economic problem. One such mechanism might be a re-examination of the idea of converting external debt into investment and into projects with proven social impact. The preservation of the environment and the fight against drug trafficking are questions that demand consideration. The 1972 Stockholm Declaration established the foundations for some universal principles for the protection of the global environment and efforts to control pollution and combat desertification and deforestation. Reality, however, called for new initiatives, which culminated in the Rio Conference on Environment and Development. We hope that the results of that Conference will be of benefit to all and help ensure mankind's the sustainable development and future well-being. I should, however, like to emphasize the obligation of the developed and industrialized countries — which bear the greatest responsibility for the deterioration of the global ecosystem — to those countries that today are being asked to make the sacrifice of limiting their legitimate right to the use of the riches nature has bestowed on them. Fitting compensation must be forthcoming, particularly through the funding of alternative projects and technological cooperation. Within its modest financial means, the Republic of Equatorial Guinea has been and remains ready to take action to improve its national environment as its contribution to the task of preserving nature throughout the world. The Government of Equatorial Guinea is also giving its constant attention to the struggle against the AIDS pandemic, and, thanks to the deep awareness of the people of Equatorial Guinea and the assistance we are receiving from international agencies, we shall spare no effort to control it effectively. From this rostrum we are appealing to the international community to join us in our efforts to speed and support work in these sectors. For all those reasons, we hope that the United Nations will continue to enjoy the full support of all of us in working to achieve a better world in the coming 50 years. I wish, on behalf of the people and the Government of El Salvador, to express sincerest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its current session. It will certainly result in a positive outcome to the international community’s efforts to find a solution to the major challenges of today’s world. We are certain that your skills and your diplomatic experience will enable us to realize the noble principles and objectives enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. We wish to express our appreciation to the Ambassador of Guyana, Mr. Samuel Insanally, for the 11 dynamic and successful work that he accomplished during his term as President of the Assembly at its forty-eighth session. It is with particular pleasure that we reiterate our gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, for his work at the head of the Organization, and especially for his efforts to cooperate with and to assist the people and the Government of El Salvador in the process of consolidating peace. May I begin with a brief personal reference. This is not the first time that I have had the honour of being here at the United Nations. We had the privilege of participating in the difficult and fruitful negotiations that culminated in the New York Accord at midnight on 31 December 1991 which cleared the way for the signing of the Peace Accords in Mexico on 16 January 1992. Later, in May of this year, as President Elect I had the opportunity to reiterate to the Secretary-General our total political will and firm commitment to complying strictly with all the peace agreements before us. Today for the first time I am addressing the General Assembly as President of the Republic of El Salvador, pursuant to the mandate given by the people of El Salvador, and this fills us with satisfaction and pride. In the field of international policy in recent years with the profound changes that have taken place in Eastern Europe and the end of East-West confrontation we are beginning to structure a new international order which has not yet been consolidated. None the less, new trends have taken shape at the global level in the political, economic and social spheres permitting great progress to take place which, in spite of the grave problems that persist, allow us to look to the future of mankind with optimism. With the end of the cold war the concept of security ceased to rest primarily on the arms build-up, and that has curbed the rise in military expenditures. Democracy as a political system has been strengthened and continues to expand and gain strength at the world level. The global concept of development has also been closely linked to democracy, peace, respect for human rights, the protection of the environment, development and human security. In the economic sphere changes have been geared towards the liberalization and globalization of the economy, generating a trend towards privatization which will reduce state interference in the activities of society and will foster the efficient use of resources for the collective benefit. In the social sphere policies are being geared towards the training of human resources to foster personal fulfilment and combat the marginality in which a large part of the world’s population lives. This situation is clearly reflected in the Human Development Report 1994. We consider it appropriate to make a brief reference to the efforts being made by the world Organization in the quest for solutions and in the establishment of mechanisms to resolve problems of a general nature, creating greater opportunities for integral development which can promote the greater well-being of the human person. In this respect the following are all events of profound significance and broad scope: the holding of the World Summit for Children, dealing with the rights of the child; the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development; the World Conference on Human Rights; the recent World Conference on Population and Development; and the decision to hold in 1995 the Fourth World Conference on Women and the World Summit for Social Development. We support and are following with interest these international gatherings because the subjects that have been examined in the past and will be examined focus on a profound analysis of the variables and concepts related to human development; their interrelationships; the obstacles in the way of the desired objectives; and the agreement of Governments to meet those objectives in accordance with legislation, domestic programmes and national resources. We cannot fail to mention the successes won by the United Nations in the search for international peace and security. The dynamic participation in conflict resolution - resolution of conflicts of an internal nature, including those related to the process of decolonization, as well as conflicts of an international nature - constitutes clear evidence of the fact that when States have the political will it is possible to arrive at rational solutions to existing problems. In this respect we wish to affirm that, with a view to democratic plurality and the principle of universality that inspired the Charter of the United Nations, we reiterate our support for the admission of those emerging States that accept and comply with the norms of this Organization. 12 As an example of the successful work of the United Nations it is possible to mention South Africa, which is in the process of consolidating democracy under a multiracial Government; the solution of the conflict in our own country, El Salvador, which for a long time lived the tragedy of armed confrontation; the process of peacemaking in the fraternal Republic of Guatemala and the establishment of the United Nations mission to supervise the process that will restore harmony to the Guatemalan people; the fact that Mozambique is approaching the holding of free elections to choose, democratically, its authorities under the monitoring of the United Nations; the fact that Cambodia is now in a difficult period of transition towards the consolidation of democracy and reconstruction; and, in general, all those cases where the presence of the United Nations through peace-keeping forces means that the work of monitoring, observation and separation is being done to avoid military confrontation. We note with concern that in spite of the effort made and resources devoted to promoting development at the world level the situation in most countries has not improved in the economic and social spheres and, in particular, in developing countries where extreme poverty, marginality, deficiencies in health services and education, unemployment and inequalities in income are, inter alia, the characteristics that prevail. We believe that the objective of universal peace to achieve a more human world will be possible only if we have the conviction and the political will to establish a new model of development in which the ultimate goal must be the improvement of the living conditions of the human person: a new concept of cooperation, based on the democratization of international relations, without preconditions of any type, but with shared responsibilities for the reduction of poverty, the generation of opportunities, the creation of jobs, social integration and the openness of markets. We are sincerely pleased by the continued compliance with peace commitments signed by the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, and the signing of the Washington declaration by Israel and Jordan, which constitute vital advances in the peace process in the Middle East. We hope that these events will constitute encouragement so that other States that are directly involved and have interests in that region will become fully involved in the peace process that has begun, in order to establish a just, lasting and permanent peace for the benefit of the peoples of the region. We wish to express our concern at the conflict that has caused so much bloodshed to the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we sincerely hope that a negotiated solution will be found, involving respect for human rights and peaceful coexistence among the different ethnic groups of that important region. The grave situation in Rwanda is also of concern to us and we hope that the struggle of that people will soon find a solution. We hope that that nation will find solutions to the problems afflicting it and we urge the international community to give its priority attention to that conflict. In Latin America and the Caribbean, we cannot fail to make reference to the situations in Haiti and Cuba. Our Government welcomes the last-minute solution reached by the United States and the de facto government of Haiti, which made it possible to avoid a major armed intervention that would have greatly harmed the Haitian people. Once more it has been demonstrated that negotiation remains the right way to resolve differences, to ensure peaceful coexistence among peoples and to preserve international peace and security. In respect to the situation in Cuba, El Salvador considers that it is the responsibility of that country’s Government to create the proper conditions so that the Cuban people can freely exercise their individual political and economic rights. None the less, as a contribution towards avoiding the deepening of the economic and social crisis and the increase in tension resulting from immigration, as well as making it viable for Cuba to be reintegrated into the American community of nations, we believe that a frank and open dialogue between the Cuban Government and the countries of the region that are interested in helping resolve differences through political means should be encouraged. We welcome with interest the Cuban Government’s decision to invite the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to visit the country, as well as the announcement of its adherence to the Treaty the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America. We would like to mention two important conferences in the Central American regional sphere. As developing countries, we understand social problems, especially those of us who have experienced armed conflicts, the result, in 13 part, of the lack of social opportunities and appropriate programmes to create them. We know that the dimensions and the scope of sustainable development imply major responsibilities and make it necessary that there be greater solidarity, cooperation and harmonization among the countries of the Central American subregion. For this reason, next October, in Nicaragua, we will hold a Central American ecological summit in which environment problems and the relationship between environment and development in our countries will be taken up. At the end of that month, we will hold, in Honduras, an international conference on peace and development, at which we will evaluate the progress made and the obstacles remaining in promoting the economic and social development of our peoples. We are also considering the need for the material and financial resources that are indispensable if we are to improve the economic and social conditions of our peoples. In this connection, we are working to enhance and strengthen our democratic institutions in order to guarantee civil, political, economic and social rights, promoting the creative participation of civil society in the development process. We are committed to promoting human development to meet the basic needs of our population and overcome critical poverty. The efforts are based on a strategy of sustainable development that gives priority to investment in the social sphere. In the Central American region, our fundamental interest is to raise the standard of living of our peoples in order to consolidate the progress we have made in the fields of democratization and peacemaking. We are confident that the international community, which is united in support of the peacemaking process in Central America, will not fail to attend the conference and give us its support and resolute cooperation so that Central America can be a region of peace, freedom, democracy and development. Permit me to provide a summary of the specific situation in our own country, El Salvador, to describe the advances, the obstacles and the new challenges on the difficult path towards consolidating peace and democracy. It is important to emphasize that our Government’s endeavours are firmly directed towards the implementation of the last stage of the agreements aimed at definitely consolidating peace, national reconciliation, the strengthening of the democratic model and the reconstruction of our country. At the same time, we are focusing on resolving the new challenges confronting Salvadorian society in the post-war period, particularly with regard to public safety, the struggle against drug trafficking and organized crime, the eradication of corruption, improving and strengthening the judicial system in order to achieve prompt and complete justice, and full respect for human rights. We are also adopting measures aimed at reducing extreme poverty, improving the education and health systems, improving protection of the individual, protecting the environment and creating new opportunities. All this is being done in order to achieve greater well-being for the Salvadorian people as part of our major objective: achieving social peace. With regard to implementation of the peace agreements, significant progress has been made this year in the area of public safety. We have given resolute support to the national civil police, and we will continue to do so in order to strengthen its efficiency and effectiveness by providing the necessary resources. We have also deployed the national civil police in all the country’s departments, and we need to increase the number of police in order to confront post-war problems of public safety. In the field of human rights, we are able to point with satisfaction to a considerable improvement in the respect and enjoyment of the fundamental rights and freedoms of Salvadorians. None the less, we must recognize in all honesty that, although some occurrences may be felt to have political underpinnings, most incidents have been linked to common crime. This is a social phenomenon that is on the rise in the post-war period. In connection with those cases that allegedly have political motivation, we reiterate our Government’s political will to support resolutely the strengthening of our national institutions that protect human rights, especially the attorney general for the defence of human rights, in order that, before the mandate of the United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador comes to an end, it will be fully able to play its proper role in this field. During a recent visit of the independent expert of the United Nations Human Rights Commission, our Government submitted to him a proposal on the needs and requirements of the various national institutions, in order to improve the way they function in promoting and protecting human rights. We hope that this proposal will be supported by the members of that Commission. 14 In the field of the administration of justice, we would like to underscore the election, by consensus among the different political forces represented in the legislative assembly, of the new Supreme Court, which is composed of judges who have nothing to do with or answer to any partisan politics, thus ensuring its independence and impartiality. The implementation of the commitments relating to the transfer of land, for programmes to reintegrate former combatants and for human settlements has not been brought to a standstill, although there have been some delays owing to the lack of documentation and information on the potential beneficiaries, as well as to financial constraints. I take this opportunity to recall that the international community’s offer of assistance in support of the peace agreements gave rise to great expectations in our country. A portion of the assistance has been provided, for which we are very grateful. But some of it has not yet materialized, and this puts the Government in a difficult situation and could cause unnecessary social tension. The Secretary-General is aware of this situation and in his most recent report (S/1994/1000) to the Security Council on the situation in El Salvador observed that it was imperative that the Government and the international community find ways to finance the deficit of over $80 million as soon as possible, in order to implement certain programmes stemming from the peace agreements and to carry out outstanding commitments. Because of the delays, the Government of the Republic and the FMLN agreed on 19 May 1994 on rescheduling the most important outstanding agreements. This shows that the political will exists to continue and complete the fulfilment of the peace agreements. In the social sphere, our objective as a Government is to create conditions that provide equal opportunities for all, from the time of conception, to enable everyone to achieve a higher level and quality of life. The strategy of our social programme is simultaneous implementation of short- and long-term programmes, combined with an economic policy that stimulates investment and job-creation. This stems from our conviction that there can be no economic development without social development, and vice versa, going hand in hand with steady progress in the fields of politics, justice and public safety. Hence, in order to improve the living conditions of the neediest, we are carrying out social-support programmes for human development that include arrangements for rapidly bringing people into productive jobs. These programmes cover training, production incentives, care for mothers, children and the elderly, basic infrastructure, environmental health, recreation and sports. We know that only long-term programmes can tackle the root causes of poverty. The Government has decided to undertake vast, profound reforms in the areas of health and education, to make them primary sources of investment in sustainable human development and social mobility. We believe that these reforms, backed by greater budgetary appropriations for health and education, will make it possible drastically to reduce infant mortality, bring quality education to the remotest corners of our country and reduce illiteracy to the minimum by the year 2000. We are convinced that one cannot speak of health comprehensively without considering the environment; most of the diseases that affect the poorest people are caused by contamination of the soil, aquifers and the air. Our Government is committed to the protection and recovery of the environment, for there can be no sustainable development if we do not protect our natural resources and halt the destruction of our environment. The Government’s social reforms include reform of the social security system; this seeks to create conditions for private participation in order to broaden coverage rapidly, with mechanisms by which individuals can pay into the system. We are improving social security to avert the suffering felt by many workers, who are doomed in their old age to being a burden on their families after a lifetime of work. Since 1989 El Salvador has been making major changes to free and stabilize the economy, with notable results. Economic growth has been more than 5 per cent for each of the last three years. Inflation will stand at about 10 per cent this year and is estimated to fall into single digits next year. In the external sector, our current international reserves equal more than four months of imports, and the fiscal deficit, despite the demands imposed by the peace agreements, will be around 2 per cent of the gross domestic product in 1994. These encouraging results enable us to look to the future with optimism. Our goal as a Government is equitably to transform growth into economic development, maintaining stability and generating trust in the productive 15 sector. Hence, through sound economic policy we are seeking to stimulate domestic savings; here, reforms in the social security system will play a crucial role in the mobilization of resources. We firmly believe that our country is rapidly becoming an attractive place for foreign investment. An important element in this connection was the adoption of a new labour code, agreed by workers and management and endorsed by the International Labour Organization. This represents fundamental progress. It is clear, then, that El Salvador enjoys peace and democracy and is engaged in dizzying change. Although the progress has been great, we cannot deny that the road ahead of us is greater still. Progress makes us work even harder to broaden our opportunities and create social well- being. This is an appropriate time to reiterate to the Secretary-General the gratitude of the Government and the people of El Salvador for the careful attention he has given to consolidating the process of peace in El Salvador. We wish also to express our thanks to the international community, which continues to stand by our side to bolster our democracy and the process of reconciliation of the Salvadorian people. We can affirm with great satisfaction that our country’s peace agreements are being implemented satisfactorily in accordance with the aspirations of the Salvadorian people, and that they can be an example for the solution of other conflicts. The achievement of peace among Salvadorians was the result of the unshakable resolve of our people, the support of the international community and the effective work of the United Nations and the Secretary-General. In conclusion, we want to express our confidence that by the end of this forty-ninth session of the General Assembly the world’s peoples will have found formulas for understanding and cooperation, so that mankind, under the banner of solidarity, will be successful in meeting the great challenges of the coming millennium. At the outset, I should like warmly to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that given your outstanding talent and consummate experience, you will fulfil this lofty mission with distinction. At the same time, I should like to express my appreciation and thanks to Mr. Samuel Insanally for the positive contribution he made during his presidency at the last session. I wish to avail myself of this opportunity to extend a hearty welcome and congratulations to the delegation of South Africa, which is taking part in the work of the current session. We are convinced that a united, democratic and non-racial new South Africa led by President Nelson Mandela will contribute positively to the peace and development of Africa and of the world as a whole. The world is still undergoing profound changes, and the transition toward multipolarity has accelerated. Economic factors are playing a greater role in international relations. Relaxation of tensions has become the main trend of the world today. However, hegemonism and power politics continue to hold out. Regional hot spots flare up intermittently. Destabilizing factors tend to multiply, thus compounding the volatility of the international scene. The maintenance of peace, strengthening of cooperation and promotion of development remain the major challenges of our era. To eliminate regional hot spots and settle international disputes are the world’s priorities and the common concern with which the international community has been trying to deal in one way or another. Experience has shown that such practices as interfering in other countries’ internal affairs and resorting to pressure, sanctions or even force at will cannot help; they can only increase the complications and difficulties that stand in the way of a final solution. In the interest of maintaining regional peace and stability, the international community and regional organizations should take an appropriate and effective approach, that is, to promote dialogue and negotiations between parties directly concerned so as to reach a solution acceptable to all sides. This has been best illustrated by the breakthrough achieved in the Middle East peace process and by the progress made on the Korean nuclear issue. United Nations peace-keeping operations can play a positive role, but not all of them have been successful. Experience and lessons learned in this regard should be summed up. It is our consistent view that peace-keeping operations should strictly conform to the principles of the United Nations Charter and the norms of international relations. Such operations should be undertaken with the consent and cooperation of the parties concerned, and an impartial and unbiased attitude should be maintained. No peace-keeping operations or humanitarian aid programmes should be permitted to interfere in the internal affairs of any country, still less to use force or become embroiled in a conflict between the parties. A lesson should be drawn from what befell the United Nations peace-keeping forces in Somalia. Here I wish to underline the importance of strict adherence to the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence as the basic means to prevent international conflicts. 9 These principles, namely, mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, non-interference in each other’s internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit, and peaceful coexistence, were jointly initiated four decades ago by China, India and Myanmar - called 'Burma' at the time - and were subsequently embodied in the 10 principles formulated by Asian and African countries at the Bandung Conference and in the purposes and principles espoused by the Association of South-East Asian Nations and other regional organizations of the developing countries. The history of the past four decades has testified to the immense vitality of the Five Principles. All nations, notwithstanding their differences in social systems, ideologies, values or religious faiths, can live in amity and carry out mutually beneficial cooperation as long as they abide by these principles. Failure to do so will lead to friction, confrontation or even military conflicts. In a world as diversified as ours, nations have no alternative but to adhere to the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence and to find common ground while shelving their differences in order to live together amicably and pursue common development. The peoples of the world have long lived in the shadow of a nuclear holocaust, due to the all-out nuclear arms race between the two super-Powers during the cold war, which resulted in a massive stockpiling of nuclear weapons. Now the international situation has drastically changed. Not only can we avert another world war, but the chances have increased for the complete prohibition and thorough elimination of nuclear weapons and for mankind ultimately to eliminate the threat of a nuclear war. China has always stood for the complete prohibition and thorough elimination of all weapons of mass destruction. The Chinese Government holds that a convention on the complete prohibition of nuclear weapons should be concluded in the same way as the conventions banning all biological and chemical weapons, respectively. As a signatory to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, China is in favour of its extension. Yet a mere extension of the Treaty is obviously not sufficient. With a view to ultimately ridding mankind of the threat of a nuclear war and ushering in a nuclear-weapon-free world, the Chinese Government proposes the following. All countries that possess nuclear weapons should pledge unconditionally not to be the first to use them and should immediately start negotiations to conclude a treaty on non-first-use of nuclear weapons against each other; efforts for the establishment of nuclear-free zones should be supported and all nuclear Powers should undertake not to use or to threaten to use nuclear weapons against any non-nuclear-weapon State or nuclear-free zone; negotiations should be undertaken with a view to concluding a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty not later than 1996; the principal nuclear Powers should implement their existing nuclear disarmament treaties as scheduled and go on to drastically cut back their nuclear stockpiles; negotiations should be undertaken to conclude a convention banning the production of weapon-grade fissile materials; a convention on the complete prohibition of nuclear weapons should be signed under which all nuclear Powers should undertake the obligation to destroy all their nuclear weapons under effective international supervision; and international cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy should be vigorously promoted simultaneously with the efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and step up the nuclear disarmament process. The above points make up an integrated and interrelated nuclear disarmament process. We hold that all States, whether they possess nuclear weapons or not, are entitled to participate fully in this process. Since mankind has been able to make nuclear weapons and tap nuclear energy for peaceful purposes in the twentieth century, we are confident that in the twenty- first century it will be able to completely ban and destroy nuclear weapons and fully harness nuclear energy to enhance its own welfare. Before the advent of the new century, we stand ready to join the other nuclear as well as non-nuclear States to blaze the way towards this lofty goal and make our due contribution to its ultimate realization. It is now an international trend to give priority to economic problems. Hence all countries are devoting themselves to economic development and the expansion of international cooperation. This year the world economy has started a recovery and East Asia continues to maintain a high growth rate. But there is unevenness in the world as a whole. It is disturbing to note that the impoverishment of some developing countries has worsened. In the interest of common development, we call for the abolition of protectionism and of discrimination in international economic relations and trade. Neither global multilateral trade arrangements nor regional economic and trade cooperation should be exclusive. The principles of openness, equality and mutual benefit should be upheld. The World Trade 10 Organization, to be founded next year, should from the outset be a broadly representative and open trade institution based on equality and mutual benefit. The world economy is an interdependent whole. Developed countries should make more tangible contributions to global economic development and the expansion of international economic cooperation. Primarily they should take effective measures to open their markets, provide development funds, transfer technology and increase assistance to the developing countries to reduce their debt burden, thereby contributing to their economic growth, social stability and relief from poverty. Such actions will in turn bolster the economic growth of the developed countries themselves. The international community and the United Nations should be more concerned with development matters and in particular should actively help the developing countries to achieve prosperity. We appreciate the Secretary-General’s efforts in submitting the Agenda for Development pursuant to General Assembly resolutions. We hope that our deliberations thereon will serve to reinvigorate world economic development and international cooperation. The Chinese Government considers economic development the central task of the whole nation and makes reform and opening its basic state policy. This year we have taken a new series of major steps to intensify the reform and opening which have the effect of ensuring sustained, rapid and healthy economic growth. Gross domestic product, foreign trade volume and overseas investments registered increases in the first six months of 11.6 per cent, 25.5 per cent and 54.9 per cent respectively, compared with the corresponding period last year. We will step up our all-directional opening-up and continue to work for world prosperity. We have been striving for an early resumption of our contracting party status in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. A solution to this matter will be in the interest of both China and the world as a whole. China needs to cooperate with the rest of the world which in turn needs such an important trading partner as China. A World Trade Organization without China would be inconceivable. Human society continues to move forward and make progress. But social ills still stand out starkly such as poverty, unemployment, the deteriorating environment, the population explosion, refugees, illegal immigration, drug trafficking, crime and injurious and unfair treatment of social groups such as women, children and the disabled. Some of these problems have become even more acute, and have cried out for a remedy by the world community through international cooperation. We consider that it is necessary to step up such cooperation. Because conditions vary, different countries face different social problems. Each country has to draw up social development policies adaptable to its own conditions. International cooperation in this field should adhere to the principles of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit without political strings or interference in domestic affairs. Developing countries account for the majority of the world’s population and are in a disadvantaged position socially. This is where the emphasis of the United Nations social programmes should be placed. In recent years we have actively supported and participated in important international conferences on the environment, human rights and population under the auspices of the United Nations. We will actively take part in the World Summit for Social Development, to be held in Copenhagen next March. The Chinese Government attaches great importance to the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing in September 1995. The Chinese people, our women folk in particular, are preparing for and looking forward to this grand event with tremendous enthusiasm. In response to the call in the documents of the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the Chinese Government has analysed the actual conditions in the country and drawn up 'Agenda 21 - White Paper on China’s Population, Environment and Development in the 21st Century', which will be an important guide in the formulation of our medium- and long-term national, economic and social development plans. To ensure and protect human rights is an essential part of a nation’s social policy. My Government makes it a basic policy to constantly enhance the people’s enjoyment of human rights commensurate with our economic and social development. We always hold that the principle of universality of human rights must be viewed in the context of the actual conditions of a given country. Conditions vary from country to country. It is inevitable and normal that there is divergence of views on human rights issues. We are in favour of dialogue on the basis of equality and mutual respect so as to increase mutual understanding. We are against using human rights as a pretext to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. 11 Next year will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. Both the world and the United Nations have undergone drastic changes in that half century. The United Nations is the most representative intergovernmental Organization of sovereign States. Members of the Organization are equal, irrespective of size, strength or wealth. Notwithstanding its shortcomings, the status and role of the United Nations in global international affairs remain irreplaceable by any other international organizations or groupings. It is the hope of the people of the world that the Organization will better fulfil the mission conferred on it by the Charter and and that it will make even greater contributions to the maintenance of peace and the promotion of development. To cope with the greatly changed international situation and grim challenges ahead, United Nations institutions should undergo relevant and necessary reforms. In our view, any such reforms should serve to maintain and enhance the positive role of the United Nations in international affairs and improve its efficiency. At the same time, the reforms should take full account of the concerns and interests of the developing countries, which make up the majority of the membership, so that their role may be enhanced. The function and role of the General Assembly should be strengthened. Reform of the Security Council must be aimed at facilitating a better performance of its functions under the Charter. Any enlargement of the Council’s membership must fully conform to the principle of equitable geographical distribution to ensure broader representation. Actions by the Council should better reflect the collective will and common aspirations of the entire United Nations membership. To prepare for the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, China has set up a national committee, in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolution. We hope that the commemoration in various countries in the coming year will be used to review the experience of the past and look to the future so that we may carry forward the purposes and principles of the Charter and enable the Organization to do a better job in maintaining peace and promoting development. It was sad that the first half of our century witnessed two world wars with disastrous consequences for mankind. The ensuing cold war cast a dark and menacing shadow of war over the world for the greater part of the second half of the century. It is gratifying, none the less, that we have been able to fulfil the historic mission of eliminating the centuries-old colonial system from the Earth within this century. This is unquestionably one of the greatest achievements of contemporary human society. Looking ahead to the twenty-first century, we are fully confident of the future of humanity. The Chinese people will make common efforts with all other peoples of the world to usher in a new century of peace and prosperity. I should like to congratulate Mr. Essy on his election as President of this, the forty- ninth, session of the General Assembly. The Estonian people wish him all the best in this post. Today is a day of national mourning in my country. Late last night, amid stormy autumn winds, the passenger and car ferry Estonia, sailing from Tallinn to Stockholm, sank at high sea. Nearly 100 people have been saved, and rescue efforts are continuing. But most of the over 850 people who were aboard the Estonia are presumed to be dead. I should like to thank the President and all those who have expressed their sorrow and sent condolences. In this painful loss, we can draw some solace from the global teamwork we have seen in the rescue efforts. Last night demonstrated beyond a doubt that the Baltic Sea is a sea of cooperation. Swedish, Finnish, Danish and Estonian rescue units worked together, and we had offers of help from Russia, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and countless others. On behalf of my Government, I thank all of those who helped us with the rescue effort. The spirit of international cooperation sets a fine example for all of us here today. Today my country comes before this forum for the first time in half a century unfettered by the problem of the presence of foreign troops on our soil. The role the United Nations played in helping to remove the last vestiges of the Second World War was not small. It is therefore a special privilege for me to speak here today. It is also not insignificant that this new era in the history of Estonia, Latvia and Germany coincides with the upcoming fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. These two events would seem to call for solemn reflection on the past or at least a joyous celebration of the moment. But most of all, this new era requires new approaches. Post-war security - be the war hot or cold - still hangs in a delicate balance. Because it is up to all of us, collectively, to decide which way the scales tip, I wish to focus on the future, on how we in Estonia are approaching this new era, and on some of the ideas enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations that we believe deserve special attention in the next few years. On 31 August, we marked the withdrawal of troops. The celebrations and commemorations of this event symbolized the end of one era and the beginning of another. The withdrawal of the troops has had a tremendous effect in bringing us closer to normalization of relations with the Russian Federation, and we sincerely hope that the problem of officers who were demobilized on our territory against the spirit and the letter of the troop-withdrawal treaty will be solved. The troop withdrawal was also a major step towards achieving security in the Baltic region. But the problem of Baltic security has not yet been solved - far from it. One dimension of moving towards bona fide security undoubtedly lies in trying to improve relations with the Russian Federation. The potential for good will is in the air, and it is our duty, on both sides of the 1920 Tartu Peace Treaty, to seize the moment and make that peace again. We might call this policy towards Russia one of positive engagement. This would involve, among other 24 qualities, mutual respect for sovereignty, mutual respect for national security interests, mutual refraining from verbal and other confrontation, and mutual respect for international norms of behaviour, particularly in the area of human rights. We are willing to expend considerable energy to repair a relationship that has been historically so complex. To do so is not only in our own interest and in that of Russia, but in the interest of regional, European and therefore global security as well. I would emphasize, however, that in order for this policy to be successful, it must be mutual. If, on the other hand, our efforts are not reciprocated, then we must be prepared to expend our energy in different ways. Lately, we have noted with great concern talk of creating new spheres of influence. We hear continuing use of the phrase 'the near abroad'. We observe similar attitudes in discussions about the enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union. We are already well past the initial stages of building a European security structure. A viable framework, based on shared values, that includes Central and East European States is nearly in place. It is not only late but unacceptable to ponder the plans of architects who speak of spheres of influence and to consult contractors who wish to build on sand or, worse, on a slippery slope. There are some specific ways in which the United Nations can take advantage of the historic opportunity it faces to encourage principled behaviour. One of them is to render peace-keeping more effective by strengthening peace-keeping mechanisms, including the dissemination of better and more timely information to all Member States in order to garner the support necessary for any collective action. Rather than abdicating responsibility, whether due to benign neglect, expediency or funding problems, and allowing large States to act unilaterally, it means holding all States in all regions to the same standards. It goes without saying that in lending its name to any peacekeeping operations, the United Nations must stand by the fundamental principles of neutrality and multilateralism. The United Nations should never become a mask behind which one country tries to assert dominance over another by means of peace-keeping. Let me add that Estonia is actively developing its own peace-keeping force, to be put, perhaps next year, at the disposal of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Another area in which more effective mechanisms and more stringent standards are needed is that of human rights, as reflected in the Vienna Declaration and plan of action of last year. I would stress the importance of the newly established Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights taking on this task. We wish High Commissioner Ayala Lasso success in this most important and challenging endeavour. We believe the High Commissioner can be instrumental not only in improving the effectiveness of the United Nations human rights mechanisms, but also in holding this body to strict standards. We believe that all States should be measured according to the same human rights standards. I could not agree more with the observation made by Russian Federation President Boris Yeltsin two days ago in this forum that 'neither a selective approach nor double standards are permissible.' (Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Plenary Meetings, 5th meeting, p. 2) Indeed, exceptions cannot be made on the basis of the size of a nation, its cultural heritage or the political delicacy of the situation. The standards that are applied to one country must be valid for all others - in other words, there should be no elastic rulers. In this regard, allow me to remind the Assembly of an open letter - an appeal, really, to morality in foreign policy - which was signed by a host of political luminaries and published in September of last year in The Wall Street Journal. I quote from the letter, entitled 'What the West Must Do In Bosnia': 'Even if, like Kuwait in August 1990, all Bosnia (and not just Sarajevo) were seized, it would be essential for the democracies to make clear, as they did in the case of Kuwait, that violent border changes and ethnic cleansing will not stand. If the West does not make that clear, it will have nothing persuasive to say ...'. Sadly, the message in that letter remains applicable today. If the world’s democracies, led by the United Nations, do not speak out for morality in the area of human rights, we will lose our ability to influence the course of events. Democracies must be willing to stand by the principles upon which our States and societies are based. It is our sincere hope that non-selective application of human rights standards will become the rule, not the exception. 25 A third way the United Nations can take advantage of this moment is to consider the global changes that have taken place since 1945. Then, in the immediate post-war period, the composition of the Security Council was established by drawing a sharp distinction between the victors and the vanquished. Times have changed. We must now take into account the positive role that some States in particular play in the international arena. And I have in mind here Germany and Japan, States that have more than demonstrated their commitment to democracy during the last 50 years. Estonia strongly supports granting Germany and Japan permanent-member status in the Security Council as a recognition of their accomplishments and an acknowledgement of their stabilizing role in world affairs. I would turn now briefly to Estonia’s vision of its future role in the United Nations. Now that the issues which had hitherto demanded our intense attention have been more or less solved, we are freer to devote more energy to wider issues that affect all of us. I am speaking here of global phenomena such as terrorism, organized crime, drug trafficking and smuggling of radioactive materials as well as health and social issues and environmental problems. These are issues that know no borders, and dealing with them requires a collective effort on our part. On this, the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we face an enormous challenge. The war - I mean the Second World War - is finally over. But the real battle - to safeguard human and civil rights for all persons, to strengthen security for all States, to preserve a continent undivided - this battle has only just begun. With intelligence, perseverance, goodwill, and a little luck, the nations gathered here can unite in the battle to make the next 50 years more constructive than the last. It is with pleasure that I begin this speech by conveying to you. Sir, our most sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your election not only reflects the trust placed in you personally but also bespeaks the regard of the international community for your country, Cote d’Ivoire. We wish you success in the pursuit of your mission. I take this opportunity to congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Samuel Insanally, on the effective manner in which he conducted the affairs of the General Assembly at its last session. I also wish to note the sincere efforts by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to consolidate peace and to reduce the tensions that beset many parts of the world. It is with great pleasure. Sir, that I convey to you the best wishes of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Fahad bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, and his hope that at this session the General Assembly will successfully deal with international developments, benefiting from the opportunities provided by the principles and other foundations upon which contemporary international relations rest. The Government of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques has always been willing to play a positive role in the international arena, and to contribute to achieving our common goals of security, stability and prosperity. The principles and other foundations of our present international order derive their legitimacy and strength from the tenets of the United Nations Charter, which are inherent in international legality. The most important of these principles are: respect for the sovereignty and independence of nations; the inviolability of international borders; the establishment of justice and equality between nations; rejection of the use of force in the settlement of conflicts; safeguarding human dignity; and ensuring security and prosperity for all mankind. Based on its adherence to Islamic shari'a, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is committed to the principles of the United Nations Charter, and has endeavored throughout the Organization's history to implement those principles in practice. The Gulf Cooperation Council, whose current session my country has the honor of chairing, bases itself on the principles of the United Nations Charter. We are convinced that the international community's success in serving the cause of international peace and security will depend on the commitment by its members to the United Nations Charter and on the strength of their political will to apply the resolutions of international legality. While the firm unified international stand in confronting Iraq's aggression against the State of Kuwait in 1990 was vindicated when the aggression was reversed and international legality was restored, the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina remains unresolved. Serb aggression against the Bosnian people continues. This is because the aggression has not been dealt with in accordance with the United Nations Charter and the principles of international legality. It is incumbent upon this Organization, and in particular the Security Council, to move swiftly and effectively to demonstrate that aggression is bound to fail, whether in Kuwait, in Bosnia or in any other part of the world. Even a cursory glance at the current international situation would be sufficient to highlight the need for an effective United Nations role and for implementation of the Charter in order to deal with the chronic hotbeds of tension that are widespread and that continue to threaten security and stability in many parts of the world. This requires us to strengthen further the role of the United Nations as an effective vehicle for creating the proper conditions for world peace and stability. We in the Gulf Cooperation Council recognize the prominent role played by the Secretary-General in fashioning a new approach for the United Nations based on the principles of the United Nations Charter and the norms of international legality. We welcomed the Secretary- General's proposals in his 'An Agenda for Peace', and we look forward to his agenda for development. The ideas contained in those two reports are bound to make an important contribution to the efforts of the General Assembly to enhance the role and effectiveness of the United Nations. Success in achieving this aim will rely to a great extent on the degree of support by Member States for the principles and principles of the United Nations. The most important of these are: the maintenance of international peace and security; peacemaking through the deterrence of aggression; the elimination of threats to the security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations; and the promotion of cooperation in the service of international development. Under the United Nations Charter, the Security Council, the body most directly concerned with the maintenance of international peace and security, has the primary responsibility for dealing with international problems. As we pursue reform of United Nations organs, it is therefore crucial that the Council be made more capable and better equipped to carry out its mandate under the Charter. The Gulf Cooperation Council attaches great importance to a number of regional and international issues. We greatly appreciated the important role played by the United Nations following the Iraqi aggression against Kuwait. That role clearly reflected the international community's expectations regarding the responsibilities of the United Nations. It also highlighted the ability of the Security Council to confront aggression and reverse its effects. We hope that this solidarity will help guarantee that no repetition of this aggression can occur. This can be achieved only through complete and total implementation of all Security Council resolutions on the matter. The Iraqi Government continues to defy international legality and to attempt to deceive international public opinion through limited implementation of some of the requirements of Security Council resolutions 661 (1990) and 687 (1991) pertaining to the issue of weapons of mass destruction. The true objective of these Iraqi efforts is to circumvent Security Council resolutions, which contain a number of requirements accepted by the Iraqi Government and which together form an interrelated legal structure. In its last review of the sanctions imposed on Iraq, the Security Council decided to continue the application of those sanctions; this demonstrates that the efforts of the Iraqi Government to deceive the world community have not borne fruit. Iraq has yet to meet the essence of its obligations, which lies in full and irrevocable recognition of the State of Kuwait and of its borders. To do this it must officially accept Security Council resolution 833 (1993), which demarcated the international borders between Kuwait and Iraq and provided international guarantees for those borders under the cease-fire agreements set out in Security Council resolution 687 (1991), which was accepted by the Iraqi Government. And in view of the fact that the Iraqi Government has repeatedly violated its international and legal obligations, we feel it is necessary to insist that Iraq's recognition of Kuwait and its borders should be irrevocably stated, in conformity with the constitutional measures applied in Iraq and based on the international guarantees contained in the United Nations Security Council resolution 833 (1993). Furthermore, Iraq must comply with its commitment to release all Kuwaiti and non-Kuwaiti prisoners and detainees. While we welcome Iraq's participation on the committee dealing with prisoners and detainees, we hope that its participation is a genuine attempt to settle this humanitarian issue and not merely a symbolic move to appease international public opinion. The Government of Iraq is also expected to pay full compensation for all the damage caused by its aggression. It must refrain from committing or sponsoring any acts of terrorism or subversion. All of the above requirements represent a series of interrelated international legal obligations, that must be complied with in their entirety. The States of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), while reiterating their commitment to the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq, wish to voice their concern over the continuing suffering of the Iraqi people, the sole responsibility for which lies with the Iraqi Government which rejects the implementation of United Nations Security Council resolutions 706 (1991) and 712 (1991) which deal with the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people. The GCC States have actively participated in the Middle East peace process since its inception at the Madrid Peace Conference. The GCC States contributed to advancing the bilateral talks between the Arab States and Israel. They have also participated effectively in the multilateral talks. The Arab delegations' commitment to and participation in this process gave a clear indication of their sincere intention to work towards a just and comprehensive peace in the region. The multilateral talks are an integral part of the peace process launched in Madrid and complement the bilateral talks and not a substitute thereto. The signing of the Declaration of Principles between the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Israeli Government in Washington in 1993, raised hopeful expectations, since it represented the first step towards the achievement of a just and permanent settlement of the Palestinian problem. While the Gulf Cooperation Council notes with satisfaction the concrete progress made on the Palestinian-Israeli track and the important steps taken to expand Palestinian self-rule and to transfer institutions to the Palestinian National Authority, it calls upon the international community, and in particular on the co-sponsors of the peace process, the United States of America and the Russian Federation, to ensure that Israel places no more obstacles in the path of the Palestinian National Authority as it assumes its responsibilities. While we welcome the progress achieved on the Jordanian-Israeli track, we wish to voice our deep concern over the lack of clear progress in the Syrian and Lebanese tracks. The issue of the occupied Golan Heights is clear and governed by the principles of respect for international borders. Security is not attained by the occupation of another nation's territory by force, but through the establishment of peace, which can only be realized in this situation by the total Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Golan Heights. The Lebanese-Israeli track is governed by United Nations Security Council resolution 425 (1978), which clearly calls for the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Lebanese territory. We call for the complete and unconditional implementation of the said resolution. The question of Al-Quds Al-Shareef is at the heart of the Arab-Israeli conflict, and permanent peace cannot be achieved in the Middle East without a just settlement of this issue. The settlement must take into account the resolutions of international legality, and in particular United Nations Security Council resolution 242 (1967), which calls for Israeli withdrawal from all territories occupied in 1967, and United Nations Security Council resolution 252 (1968) regarding Al-Quds Al-Shareef. Israel is thus required to refrain from taking any measures that would demographically change the status of the city of Al-Quds or prejudice future negotiations pertaining to its final status. Any permanent and comprehensive settlement must also address the issue of the return of Palestinian refugees and the issue of settlements erected by Israel in the occupied territories in violation of international law and the Geneva conventions. Concrete progress on the various bilateral tracks on the various aspects of the Arab-Israeli conflict is bound to lead inevitably to similar progress with regard to the issues addressed in the multilateral talks and lay the groundwork for a just, comprehensive, and lasting peace in the Middle East. We in the GCC are convinced that the success of the Palestinian National Authority in implementing the Declaration of Principles depends on the support it receives from the Palestinian people, as well as on the political and economic support it receives from the international community. It was on the basis of this conviction that the GCC States participated in the international donors conference held in Washington, D C. in October of 1993 and pledged substantial financial assistance. The Gulf Cooperation Council States have also contributed financially to the establishment of a Palestinian police force and administration to enable it to assume its duties. We have also announced, along with our Arab brethren at the 102nd session of the League of Arab States, our full support for the Palestinian self-governing authority. In the context of their pursuit to help the Middle East region enjoy its legitimate share of security, peace and stability, the GCC States have focused great attention on efforts to rid the region of all weapons of mass destruction, whether nuclear, chemical or biological. To achieve this objective, we call on all countries in the region, including Israel, to refrain from producing, possessing or stockpiling any such weapons. The GCC States note with great concern the continued occupation of the three United Arab Emirates islands - Abu Moussa, the Greater and Lesser Tumbs - by the Islamic Republic of Iran. The GCC States, motivated by a desire to have the best possible ties with the Islamic Republic of Iran, have repeatedly urged the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond to the call of the United Arab Emirates to settle this problem by peaceful means through serious bilateral negotiations. The Government of Iran, however, has not responded to these calls so far. We therefore call for referring this matter to the International Court of Justice, which is responsible for settling disputes among nations. The current session of the General Assembly is taking place at a time when the plight of the Bosnian people is worsening as a result of the war of extermination and ethnic cleansing waged by the Serbian forces with the support of Serbia and Montenegro. In spite of the optimism generated by the Muslim-Croat agreement to establish a federation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and their acceptance of the peace plan proposed by the international Contact Group, and welcomed by all of us the Serbian forces continue to challenge the international peace-keeping forces of the United Nations, in total disregard of United Nations resolutions. In so doing, the Serbian forces have been emboldened by the inability of the international community, and in particular the States of the European Community which have a special responsibility vis-a-vis this tragedy, to implement the necessary sanctions and impose the required punishment, to stop the Serb aggression. The Serb forces have rejected the proposed peace plan and escalated their attacks against Bosnia and Herzegovina, which makes it patently clear that their intention is to undermine all the peaceful efforts undertaken by the United Nations. We listened with keen interest to the speech by President Alija Izetbegovic, which gave a graphic description of the dangerous situation in his country. In the light of this we are concerned that the hasty adoption by the United Nations Security Council of its resolution 943 (1994), which provides for relaxing the United Nations sanctions imposed on Serbia and Montenegro, could preclude a just settlement and lead to rewarding the aggression. It is incumbent upon the international community, and the Security Council in particular, to take the necessary action to remedy this tragic situation. This action must include declaring the entirety of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina a safe haven, and providing for the deployment of international observers equipped with a clear mandate, and sufficiently credible powers, in these safe havens and along the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They should also include the recognition of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Serbia and Montenegro before any consideration is given to the gradual lifting of the sanctions imposed on them. United Nations forces must also protect the areas of safe haven and provide for their defense. The failure of the United Nations to provide the required protection for the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina makes it necessary to lift the arms embargo so as to allow it to exercise its legitimate right to self-defense as enshrined in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. Somalia continues to be in the grip of a situation of instability and political chaos coupled with acts of violence and bloodshed. In spite of all the efforts deployed to extricate this nation from its plight, instability and lack of security still plague this troubled land. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which has tried on a number of occasions to contain the conflict in Somalia, to bring about national reconciliation between the various factions and which has provided humanitarian assistance and relief to the fraternal Somali people, calls upon all factions to listen to the voice of reason and logic, to put the interests of the Somali people above all else and to work towards national reconciliation. The feelings of optimism and jubilation triggered by the victory of the Mujahideen in Afghanistan and the restoration of that country's independence and identity are now overshadowed by feelings of disappointment and bitterness as a result of the continued infighting between the various Mujahideen factions. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has endeavored, under the direction and guidance of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Fahd bin Abdulaziz, to put an end to the fratricide among our Afghani brethren. These efforts were crowned when all factions were assembled in 1993 at the House of God in Makkah, and an agreement was signed to restore unity, security and stability to the nation of Afghanistan. We continue to urge all factions of the Afghani Mujahideen immediately to put an end to the infighting by complying with the 'Makkah Agreement' in letter and in spirit, so as to move in the direction of reconstruction and development and, thereby, to enable their nation to resume its proper place in the international community. The conflict over Jamu-Kashmir continues to cast its shadow over relations between the two neighbors, India and Pakistan, and represents one of the elements of instability in this part of the world. My Government continues to watch with concern the bloodshed there. We wish to voice the view that there is a need for a solution to this chronic problem. It has become clear that violence against the Kashmiri people, and the use of military force will achieve nothing but the further deterioration of the situation in Kashmir. It will also feed the flames of instability in the region. A peaceful solution to this problem lies in the implementation of the relevant United Nations resolutions and in dialog and understanding. It is in that way that an end may be put to yet another hotbed of tension and instability in the world. Among the other conflicts in Central Asia, the conflict between two Member States of the United Nations, the Republic of Azerbaijan and the Republic of Armenia, resulted at one stage in the occupation by Armenia of parts of Azerbaijan. As this occupation constitutes a violation of the principle of the inadmissibility of the use of force in the resolution of disputes, it is incumbent upon Armenian forces to withdraw from Azerbaijani territory and to transfer this issue to the negotiating table for the purpose of arriving at a peaceful and just settlement which would safeguard the legitimate rights of the Azerbaijani people. Such a review of the hotbeds of tension and crises in our world must not cause us to lose sight of the important and positive developments which the world witnessed over the past decade and which should give us cause for hope in a better future for mankind. We continue to have great expectations as a result of the positive developments in the aftermath of the cold war, and the emergence of solutions to pressing problems in Cambodia, the Middle East and Northern Ireland. The historic change in South Africa has brought down the curtain on the system of apartheid and brought forth a new South Africa based on justice and equality. We welcome these positive developments which are bound to contribute to the strengthening of the international tendency to move towards compliance with the principles of international law, respect for the resolutions of international legality, the renunciation of the use of force in favor favor of dialog as a means for resolving problems and disputes. A general overview of international economic issues and the role played by the United Nations to strengthen international cooperation shows that the success of the Organization in dealing with economic issues and promoting international development, is also tied to the commitment of its Members to the United Nations Charter. The conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations is a commendable example of the international community's success in addressing a number of sensitive issues with unprecedented results. We are witnessing the emergence of the World Trade Organization, which we hope will embody our vision of an institutionalized global economic system. The Marakesh conference of the contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) has succeeded in fulfilling the aims of the Bretton Woods Conference. While we appreciate this important development, we must state our concerns over the increase in protectionism and the resulting tensions between trading partners. This development contradicts the premises of the Uruguay Round regarding the importance of allowing market forces to play their natural role in economic affairs in a manner which allows nations to benefit from comparative advantages and from the optimal utilization of resources. This can only be achieved through serious international efforts to ensure free trade. We also wish to state our concern over the increase in protectionism in the guise of protecting the environment, and in particular the increased taxation on petroleum. At this point, I wish to emphasize the importance the Gulf Cooperation Council attaches to the protection of the environment, which is reflected in the adoption by our emerging industries of the highest standards of environmental protection. We are concerned that petroleum, which is our principal export commodity, is already heavily burdened by taxation, and yet it is now being targeted for further taxation while other, more polluting fuels are receiving subsidies from Governments. Coal is a case in point: according to studies published by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the International Energy Agency, coal subsidies in industrial States amount to more than twice the cost of comparable energy provided by imported petroleum. Furthermore, according to the same sources, tax reforms that take into consideration the carbon content of fuel could produce more than double the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions targeted by the proposed carbon taxes without further taxation on petroleum. We, the member States of the Gulf Cooperation Council, are convinced that imposing additional taxes on petroleum will not contribute to the environment but will instead distort international trade. This would adversely affect not only the economies of oil-exporting nations, but also those of oil-importing nations. It would also undermine the development efforts of developing countries. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its sister States in the Gulf Cooperation Council have great respect for the United Nations Charter, for international legality and for the resolutions deriving therefrom. We have not, and will not, hesitate to work towards strengthening the role of the United Nations and enhancing its effectiveness to ensure international peace and security and promote international cooperation. We hope with all sincerity that all other Member States will share this view when dealing with the various issues before the Assembly at this session. We are confident that the opportunity to achieve success still remains before us and that what is required is to heed the words of God Almighty: 'And say work; and soon Allah will observe your work, and his messenger, and the believer'.  Allow me first of all, Sir, to congratulate you warmly on your noteworthy election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Your presence, dear brother, at the head of the Assembly is clear proof of the commitment of your country, Côte d’Ivoire, to the defence of international ideals and the promotion of multilateral diplomacy. Furthermore, your personal competence and the rich diplomatic experience you have acquired over the years are a guarantee of the success of our deliberations. My country, Guinea-Bissau, which holds one of the vice-presidencies, wishes to assure you of its total availability and fullest cooperation. Our thanks and congratulations also go to your illustrious predecessor, Mr. Samuel Insanally, for the wisdom with which he guided the work of the forty-eighth session. We would also like to express our congratulations to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to pay him a tribute for his tireless activity in the midst of so many dramatic events. The general debate of the forty-ninth session reflects the logic of the post-cold-war period, in which the burden of blocs, ideological confrontations and threats of nuclear has been lightened, thus creating favourable conditions for a new type of relationship between nations and peoples. The political and socio-economic changes that have taken place on the international scene undoubtedly will have repercussions on the structure and functioning of the United Nations. Created 49 years ago, the United Nations has long lived in the context of the bipolarization of blocs and of ideologies. Today more than ever, our Organization is called upon to face the challenges of international politics in a different way. The positive trend emerging on the international level thanks to joint efforts by many parties to preserve this trend is nonetheless being thwarted by various hotbeds of tension and conflict in different regions of the world. Guinea-Bissau, aware of this fact and of its harmful consequences, is firmly committed to the promotion of a new international conscience, based on respect for human values. The United Nations, in order to better respond to the requirements of our times, must take these new challenges into account and thus undertake the necessary reforms. The universally hailed end of bipolarization in international relations has brought about a rebirth of hope for a new era of peace. Alas, the world is still the theatre of tragic and unforeseeable events. The African continent is one of the regions of the world that is most affected. Drought and desertification, which bring disorder to that continent, diminish its productive capacity and provoke famine, is now being compounded by fratricidal wars. It is no accident that in the course of recent years more than half of the peace-keeping operations of the United Nations have taken place, unfortunately, in Africa. In Angola, the people continue to be victims of suffering and atrocities. Guinea-Bissau once again urges the parties to the conflict to fully respect the relevant Security Council resolutions and hopes that the Lusaka talks will produce results. In Mozambique, significant progress has been achieved in the efforts to establish a lasting peace. We repeat our congratulations to the Government and to the Resistência Nacional Moçambicana, and urge them to persevere along this road, which should lead to the holding of multiparty elections in the coming days. In Liberia, the situation remains virtually unchanged, despite numerous agreements concluded between the parties concerned. If it continues, this state of affairs may imperil the stability of the subregion. The situation in Rwanda and in Somalia continues to be of serious concern to my country. We urge all of the parties concerned to end hostilities in favor of dialogue for the achievement of national reconciliation. My Government welcomes the international community’s unified actions on behalf of these two countries, in particular 'Operation Turquoise,' undertaken by France. With regard to the situation in Western Sahara, my country’s delegation welcomes the progress achieved and supports the efforts of the Secretary-General. Similarly, Guinea-Bissau is of the opinion that the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia must be resolved through peaceful negotiations. The end of apartheid and the holding of the first free and democratic election in South Africa have turned a page in the history of that country, which is called upon to play an important role in Africa and in the world. The peace agreement signed between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, which provides for mutual recognition by the two parties, and the agreement between Israel and Jordan represent important steps toward the creation of lasting peace in the region. Concerning the question of East Timor, we support the continuation of all initiatives undertaken under the auspices of the Secretary-General with a view to bringing about a just and equitable solution. Regarding Cuba, my country encourages dialogue between the United States and that country to find a solution to the question of the embargo, the repercussions of which have a major impact on the population. In the case of Haiti, we are pleased to note that after many efforts by the United Nations and the Organization of American States, the fundamental rights of the Haitian people have finally been re-established and democracy restored with the return of the constitutionally elected President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide. It is appropriate here to pay tribute to the decisive role played by the United States in the implementation of Security Council resolution 940 (1994). Respect for human rights is a factor for peace and a guarantee of international stability. The full exercise of individual rights presupposes the existence of objective conditions of economic and social organization based on justice and equity. The international community must promote more just and constructive cooperation between States to combat the perverse effects of poverty and improve material conditions in the most needy countries and among the most handicapped populations. We are pleased at the results achieved by the World Conference on Human Rights and hope that the resolutions and decisions agreed upon there will contribute to the protection and strengthening of human rights. Like many preceding speakers, I wish to emphasize, on behalf of Guinea-Bissau, that it is our firm conviction that the Republic of China in Taiwan should regain its 2 place in the United Nations, on the basis of the principles of parallel representation of divided countries. As a full- fledged Member of the United Nations, the Republic of China in Taiwan, with its 20,000,000 inhabitants and its highly advanced stage of economic and technological development, could play a preponderant role on the international scene. We hope that at its next session, which will coincide with the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of our world Organization, the General Assembly will decide to put this item on its agenda. Guinea-Bissau has just carried out multiparty legislative and presidential elections, which were considered just and transparent by our people and by international observers. These elections, which showed the good citizenship and maturity of the people of Guinea-Bissau, took place in a climate of exemplary civilian peace. Our country is firmly committed to the preservation and the deepening of pluralistic democracy, a condition sine qua non for any type of lasting development. As emphasized by His Excellency João Bernardo Vieira, President of our Republic, at his inauguration on 29 September this year, there were no losers in the elections in Guinea-Bissau. All the people of Guinea-Bissau and our country’s national unity, stability and development were winners. At this new stage in the history of our country we are of course counting on our people’s determination, but also on the international community’s support. We welcome the success of the Uruguay Round and the prospects for international trade that were opened up with the signing of the Marrakesh Agreement and the establishment of the World Trade Organization. We believe that the achievement of the objectives after more than eight years of negotiations, resulting in the Declaration of Marrakesh, should have beneficial consequences for the developing countries, thus enabling trade to play its efficient role as a motor for development. We believe that it is urgent to revise the current economic order, which strongly penalizes the developing countries. Indeed, these countries, and those of Africa in particular, are faced with the problems of the outflow of capital and the deterioration of the terms of trade, which seriously compromise the economic and social development of the countries of the South. This extremely painful situation is a significant cause of the developing countries’ external indebtedness. The external debt of the developing countries in general and of the African countries in particular remains an unbearable burden for their economies and a major obstacle to their development. Guinea-Bissau, with the support of its principal economic partners, is continuing its efforts to find an appropriate and lasting solution to the debt problem, which has serious consequences for its socio-economic development. We consider that the Organization should devote special attention to the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Agrica in the 1990s in order to speed up the process of the socio-economic transformation of the continent. Similarly, we support the rapid implementation of the 'Agenda for Development'. The problem of desertification represents a major concern for the Government of Guinea-Bissau, a country which, because it is located in the Sudano-Sahelian region, is faced with persistent irregularities in rainfall, as well as massive invasions of insects that destroy agricultural production. In this context, our country supports the signing of an international convention to combat desertification in those countries experiencing serious drought and/or desertification, particularly in Africa. The social and economic development activities of the United Nations are in our view aimed in particular at the most vulnerable groups - women, children, young people, the aged and the handicapped. The situation in which the majority of people in the developing world are now living deserves special attention from our Organization. In fact, the solution of the problem lies in a better development of North-South cooperation. If there is to be progress in the developing countries, health and education systems must be upgraded, and machinery must be established to eradicate hunger and poverty and improve living conditions in the world. We repeat our support for the convening of the World Summit for Social Development in 1995 and of the Fourth World Conference on Women, as well as the Preparatory Conference in Dakar and Habitat II. The international community is capable of meeting the challenges facing it and of resolving complex problems. Our Organization has many, sometimes 3 difficult, tasks to accomplish. It is our sincere wish that the process of restructuring the United Nations system, so necessary for the revitalization of the Organization, can be completed, so that the hopes that prevailed at the founding of the United Nations will be seen in a new light when we celebrate the forthcoming fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. It is a great pleasure to attend the beginning of this forty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Now that the threat of global war is receding and local conflicts are proliferating, the untiring efforts undertaken by Boutros Boutros-Ghali on behalf of peace are increasingly arduous and deserve our deepest appreciation. My congratulations go also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, Amara Essy, who is serving as President of this important session of the Assembly. During its first half-century, the United Nations promoted highly important diplomatic negotiations, prevented disputes between nations, fostered the settlement of regional controversies and prevented global conflicts. It also encountered serious limitations - and was, at times, close to paralysis - in the attainment of its ends. Its achievements and limitations alike have reflected the world power structure prevailing since 1945, as well as the efforts of its Members: countries that are equal and sovereign but diverse in their beliefs, cultural expressions, geographical endowments and levels of development. The United Nations is a child of its times, of the period following the Second World War. It was born with a mission to work for world peace and security and for development. At that time, peace meant avoiding the nuclear conflagration toward which the bipolar arms race had been sweeping us since the 1950s. Global security then meant avoiding the escalation of peripheral conflicts into which the nuclear Powers could be drawn. At that time also, world development depended on financing for recovery and, therefore, on the recycling of resources by the victorious Powers, which were net exporters of capital, in the form, very often, of 'international aid'. That peace, that security and that concept of development are no longer with us. Today, without the bipolar balance of power and faced with the intense financial competition and the regional ethnic and religious conflicts of recent years, we recognize that there are other ways in which the United Nations should promote peace, security and development, as set forth in its founding Charter. Now, at the end of another war - the cold war - it is time to recognize a new content in the objectives of our world Organization and new conditions for providing deep-rooted, lasting responses to the aspirations for justice and well-being shared by all mankind. What kinds of peace, development and solidarity are required at the end of this century? Today internationalization of the economy is increasingly pronounced and the cultural plurality of nations is being manifested by the heightening of tensions in relations between groups, countries and regions. The major dilemmas of our times therefore stem from profound complexities in the economic and political spheres and in the opportunities open to all peoples to attain a decent standard of living. Thus, it is essential to find and apply new solutions to the problems resulting from the end of the bipolar confrontation and from the new economic 10 contests between powerful regions, whose effects sometimes have an even greater impact on nations remote from these centres of finance and trade. Today the answers lie not in weapons, but in the will to build consensus; not in interference, but in the ability to coordinate development policies within a framework of fair competition, ruled by standards recognized by all participants. In building up new hope, we must unquestionably persevere in our efforts to eradicate the nuclear threat and the risks posed by chemical and biological weapons and the arms race. Mexico has always taken part in contributing to reducing those dangers. My country is pleased at the recent accession by Argentina, Brazil and Chile to the Treaty of Tlatelolco, and by the forthcoming accession announced by Cuba, which fulfil the Latin American ideal of inhabiting a nuclear-weapon-free region. We should now continue the negotiations on, and put into effect, the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty and the Convention on chemical weapons, signed in January 1993 and thus far ratified by a mere 14 States. But this is not sufficient. In the political sphere, we face the challenge of keeping the peace while maintaining respect for the sovereignty of nations and for their cultural diversity and political plurality, which, far from succumbing to interference or being diluted into uniformity, demand their own spaces, both within our countries and within the United Nations. Faced with a painful experience in Chiapas, in the south of our country, Mexico turned the armed challenge with which we were confronted on 1 January into political dialogue 10 days later; it listened carefully to the voices of the neediest and committed itself to finding a political way to solve their problems through dialogue and in freedom, instead of attempting to crush the uprising, as was the custom throughout the world during the cold-war period. This is the spirit of political dialogue and peace with honour required by the new era; this is the path of new hope. The world has certainly seen many achievements in recent times. Mexico welcomes the progress made in negotiations leading to lasting peace in various parts of the world, especially in the Middle East. It would also like to express, once again, its satisfaction at the end of apartheid in South Africa and at the establishment of a democratic Government in that country. Mexico will continue its enthusiastic and unwavering support for the peace processes in Central America and congratulates the parties involved, which are making progress along the path of dialogue and negotiation. As a member of the group of countries that are friends of the Secretary-General, Mexico has taken part in the efforts to arrange direct talks to put an end to conflicts between Latin American sister countries. That is precisely the path that might be followed, through the dialogue reopened regarding illegal migration, to put an end to the longstanding differences in the hemisphere between the United States and Cuba, within a framework of full respect for the sovereignty and the right to self-determination of the Cuban people. With regard to the crisis in Haiti, Mexico reiterates its commitment to the re-establishment of the constitutional and democratic order. It also reiterates the need to give preference to peaceful and diplomatic means above all others, as well as to foster specific forms of cooperation to ensure better living standards for the Haitian people, for without them democratic institutions will be weak and short-lived. The use of force and the threat of its use, when world peace is not in danger, are no longer valid means for sovereign nations to achieve their goals. What are needed instead are economic exchanges, political dialogue and a common willingness to recognize and respect one another, unconditionally and without exception. With that willingness, which will benefit us all because it commits us all, we can undertake thorough reforms of international organizations, and in particular of the United Nations. Recognition of plurality, respect for sovereignty and the reaching of consensual accords are also bases on which the United Nations can construct new forms of cooperation and technical assistance aimed at consolidating democracy and at achieving the effective protection of human rights. As a form of political organization of peoples, democracy is certainly the best way to facilitate development with justice; it is also the system which best guarantees respect for human rights. For the civil and political rights recognized by the vast majority of the Members of our Organization to be fully effective, economic conditions in which all individuals can develop their potential are required. Hunger and unemployment, drug-trafficking and the depletion of natural resources, forced migrations and new forms of trade protectionism impair development and the full exercise of human rights and hinder the democratic participation of individuals in shaping their own destinies. Therefore, coordinated action by nations to deal with these grave problems of our times can help to broaden political participation and 11 ensure better conditions to improve well-being and provide for the protection of human rights. The efforts made thus far by the United Nations in this field - such as the creation of the post of High Commissioner for human rights - are notable but still insufficient. Reconsidering the question of the defence of human rights and the strengthening of democracy also involves reconsidering the issue of development on the basis of fair access to markets, capital and new technolo- gies. It is not by chance that democratic stability flourishes where there is economic stability and growth; nor is it by chance that more human rights violations occur where the population is prey to poverty, illiteracy and disease. Making progress in democracy and respect for human rights requires new efforts to eradicate inequalities between individuals, groups, peoples and nations. In the economic sphere, we are facing both the challenges and the opportunities posed by interdependence and globalization. We must now make progress in the harmonization of financial, technological and production policies within the world economy in order to achieve generalized growth. We are well aware that the development of the most industrialized nations may prove to be insufficient without sustained growth in the developing countries. In the coming years the most important growth of markets for the products of industrialized nations will occur in the developing countries. We know, too, that aid may prove to be ineffective and insufficient, when the basic need is to move toward equality of opportunities worldwide by opening markets to the products of developing countries. In the past few years the world has undergone a transition toward a liberalization of trade that is unprecedented in modern history. This movement toward true globalization, in which a large number of developing countries are participating for the first time, is indicative of the renewed confidence of nations in their capacity to compete and gain integration into world markets. This new liberalization is also a reason for us to feel optimistic that freer trade will contribute to the eradication of poverty. More trade will translate into more and better jobs. Nevertheless, there are still obstacles that must be overcome: we must be wary of new protectionist trends; we must recognize that the new financial resources are still insufficient for the needs of the developing countries and that many of those countries continue to experience less favourable terms of trade as well as instability in interest rates. The challenge we face is to eliminate conditions that impede the free circulation of goods and services, that limit the creation of jobs and produce growing migration, that exacerbate xenophobic attitudes and that stand in the way of world recovery. To that end, we must consolidate the present opening of markets to competition. No instrument will be of greater assistance in attaining that goal than the launching of the World Trade Organization, which will complement the Bretton Woods institutions. It is essential for us first to guarantee that the results of the Uruguay Round are ratified by countries that have not yet done so, and subsequently to ensure the effective functioning of the new world-trade system. Today, it is essential to maintain and expand large free-trade areas and, in the new organization of world trade, to build new forms of coordination and cooperation so that free-trade areas will act as an impetus rather than an obstacle to world trade. As progress is made in trade agreements and treaties, it is imperative to recognize the asymmetries between nations and to avoid conditioning trade on such matters as labour and environmental issues, which, although legitimate aspects of trade, can be used artificially to conceal new forms of protectionism. These actions comprise the major tasks on our economic agenda for the end of this century. In the sphere of social justice - an element essential to peace - there is in the world a long-standing social debt still to be paid. If we fail to pay it, it will be utopian to think of progress in democracy or any widespread and enduring peace and security. To settle that debt, the United Nations must grant clear priority to development and cooperation within a framework of multilateral action, rather than giving priority to actions backed by arms to maintain security. We have before us the opportunity to reorder our priorities as we deal at this forty-ninth session of the General Assembly with the topic of a new Agenda for Development, and thereby to move toward lasting peace based on comprehensive, balanced worldwide de- velopment. Fully achieving development also presupposes the sustainable use of natural resources and the maintenance of the fragile balance of ecosystems that are frequently overexploited, resulting in the impoverishment of those living under such systems. Here, the Agenda drawn up by the United Nations at the historic summit in Rio de Janeiro continues to be more an aspiration than a reality. It is imperative to move on from words to deeds. In next year’s summit on social development, there will be a new 12 opportunity to respond to this link between environment and development, which is essentially one of justice. In brief, we need a major cultural change based on a simple truth: political pluralism within countries and among nations is not a hypothesis; it is a reality that defines and characterizes all human groups. Consequently, Mexico stresses its opposition to illusory assumptions that sovereignty is a vanishing concept. The globalization of the economy, an undeniable fact in our times, must be reconciled with the existence of diverse and sovereign nations whose status and will to exist cannot be denied, much less violated, without seriously jeopardizing peace. Only on the basis of recognizing and respecting pluralism will we be able to implant new and better world mechanisms for coordinating economic matters to achieve a better distribution of capital, technology and joint forms of production. Only on the basis of respect for the sovereignty of each nation and the right of all peoples to self-determination will we be able to build a broader and more enduring political consensus. Only on the basis of this awareness and of renewed solidarity will we be able to sustain action aimed at achieving effective justice in social matters. With this approach to the future, we will be able to address existing imbalances by taking shared responsibility for just and civilized coexistence. In brief, it is a question of adopting and recognizing pluralism as an expression of freedom, and justice as an essential prerequisite for security in the coexistence of nations. In Mexico, this approach is called social liberalism. It has served as a guide for the changes that we have undertaken to respond appropriately to the challenges of our times. A product of our history and of our shared universal aspiration to justice, social liberalism has led us to undertake far-reaching democratic reform, changes in our economic structures, a frontal attack on poverty, and a new linkage between Mexico and the world. We are forging a reformed State that depends not on its size but on its effectiveness in achieving, with freedom, conditions of greater justice. In 1990 I spoke to this Assembly about the objectives of Mexican change. Today we have results that strengthen our hopes and give us a better understanding of world challenges. From social liberalism comes the difficult but gratifying task of building new forms of political consensus to make progress in democracy; from it come the enormous efforts made to correct our macroeconomic imbalances and improve the competitiveness of our country; from it too stems the consolidation of our Programme of Solidarity to benefit those who have least; from it come our efforts to make environmental protection a component of development; and from it come our economic diversification abroad, our entry into organizations such as the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, the establishment of the North American Free Trade Agreement and similar agreements within Latin America, and our membership of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, in which new forms of international agreement and cooperation are being developed. Recently, Mexico’s federal elections proved to be an enriching democratic experience. More than 36 million citizens participated in the elections, which is to say, more than 77 per cent of registered voters. They were the elections most closely monitored by political parties, national observers and international visitors in our history. The Mexican people opted for legality and peace. Here, I wish to express my gratitude for the technical support provided by the Secretariat of the United Nations, at the request of the Mexican Government, in training and advising groups of Mexican election observers. Today it is no longer possible to pursue peace, security and development as isolated goals, whether in the international order or at the national level. The new world balance calls for new mentalities and new priorities: a reordering of international realities in accordance with rules agreed upon on the basis of respect for the sovereignty of each nation and recognition of the pluralities of peoples. The new vision turns differences into opportunities, opposing views into dialogue and cooperation and demands for justice into a commitment of solidarity among peoples. Our times call for making development a priority for world peace and security by encouraging global policies of financial coordination and free trade with clear and equitable rules; by recognizing nature as an ally in the development of each nation, and the equally shared responsibility of all nations in maintaining global balances; and by deploying information networks to effectively combat drug-trafficking and terrorism, which constitute attacks on the security of all. Fundamentally, our times call for the uniting of all our efforts, in democracy and freedom, to reduce poverty in the world. Otherwise there can be no possibility of peace and no lasting security. 13 These new imperatives express not only enormous needs but also the aspiration for the equality of nations in the building of a future that will hold promise only if it belongs to all of us. That is the meaning of 'international community' as embodied in the Charter of San Francisco: a future that no one has the right to deny to future generations. Today, as then, peace can be preserved only through the observance of law; today, more than in the past, security requires the greatest development of every nation, every country, so that together we can make a reality of the hope for a common future. The United Nations - our Organization - continues to be the forum par excellence for the achievement of those noble goals. Your election, Sir, to the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the Assembly marks an important moment for your country, Côte d’Ivoire, and for the entire African continent. I have the honour to convey to you the warmest wishes of the people and Government of Andorra. I also take this opportunity to express appreciation of the great accomplishments of your predecessor, Ambassador Insanally. 7 I am speaking before you here only a few hours before the official opening of the Permanent Mission of the Principality of Andorra to the United Nations, the first diplomatic Mission of Andorra anywhere in the world. This Permanent Mission is the embodiment of the will of the Andorran people to participate actively in the implementation of the ideals of the United Nations Charter. On the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of this Organization, our Mission will work towards the achievement of important goals. For one thing, it will make careful preparation for the World Summit on Social Development to be held in Copenhagen. The objectives of that Summit - namely, to find ways to reduce poverty, enhance employment opportunities and strengthen social integration - are particularly important in relation to the new possibilities for development under consideration by the Secretary-General in his 'Agenda for Development'. For another thing, Andorra will take part, with the greatest interest, in the work of the Third Committee, whose activities support our historic devotion to respect for human rights. I wish also to take this opportunity to acknowledge the commendable work of the new United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Ambassador Ayala Lasso. As president of the United States, John Fitzgerald Kennedy stood before the Berlin Wall and pronounced that famous phrase, 'Ich bin ein Berliner' ('I am a Berliner'). And for people everywhere in the world who listened to him on that historic occasion, the word 'Berliner' was understood to mean 'a defender of freedom'. For those countries whose culture expresses itself in the Catalan language, a similar moment has become equally historic. I speak of the day when the distinguished musician and universally recognized artist Paul 'Pablo' Casals boldly affirmed, here at the General Assembly of the United Nations, before Secretary-General U Thant: 'I am Catalan'. Everyone understood immediately that, with these words, he was beginning a song of liberty and declaring himself to be the son of a people filled with respect for others, a people who had created one of the oldest parliamentary and democratic systems in the world, as he stated in his dedication to the cause of peace. Let us remember that the hymn of the United Nations, the Hymn to Peace, is his work, and that it was played for the first time, with lyrics by the poet W. H. Auden, on 27 October 1971. Allow me today to humbly join two such important and respected figures and proclaim, in the same spirit and with the same passion, 'I am an Andorran'. And I hope that this expression will have the same meaning for you as the earlier assertions, and not seem to be a childish and self-centred show of pride, for throughout the centuries our ancient and small State has always demonstrated its love of freedom, its will to contribute to balance and harmony, and its concern to maintain peace. It has been a little more than a year since Andorra became a Member of the United Nations, following the approval of our Constitution and the full adaptation of our model of statehood to that befitting a State under modern law. Because of this, and because of the fact that we are the last of the four small, historically independent European States - the others being Liechtenstein, San Marino and Monaco - to have become Members of the United Nations, it seems that this is an appropriate occasion on which to reflect on the possible contributions of micro-States to the family of nations. It is evident that in a world in which great operations must be performed on a grand scale, the simple fact of our existence might appear anachronistic or irrelevant. Indeed, at a time when the establishment of the World Trade Organization points towards the end of protectionism, and the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, and the European Union herald the creation of large areas in which there is free circulation of goods and services, one might well question the need for the continued existence of a number of small States which often find themselves surrounded, as in our case, by large supranational entities such as the European Union. Yet I believe that as we move towards integration, it becomes more than ever necessary to respect and preserve the identities of micro-States. It is clear that these identities are not measured in terms of size, nor do they allow for the subordination of a minority within a majority, of a smaller collective identity within another that is demographically larger. As democracy consists of government by the majority and the respect of minorities, on the international stage the politics of large blocs and of great Powers must be compatible with the recognition of groups which, though smaller, must not be relegated in any way to a status that is discriminatory nor must they be considered less than what they are. It is evident that all small States - and probably a quarter of those represented here are small States in one way or another - have clear limitations. It is evident also 8 that the contribution of great Powers to the establishment and the preservation of world order is, and must be, decisive. But it is also true that, beyond their limitations, small States have qualities that humanity cannot do without, especially at the present time when many peace and reconciliation processes have not been resolved and remain in need of great generosity, comprehension, tolerance and a will to compromise. By their very nature, micro-States must, in an intrinsic and essential way, have respect for diversity and mutual harmony. Precisely because of their small size, they have learned in the long course of history that durable solutions cannot be imposed, and that the core of the differences cannot be eliminated. More powerful States can gain useful knowledge from their experience, built upon a wisdom that only centuries can provide. This is even more pertinent today, when the great Powers have begun to show a certain self-restraint, having discovered that while the use of force might postpone a conflict, it cannot be the basis for a lasting solution. May the great Powers of the world be guided by the rules of conduct that micro-States have been compelled to adopt, and may the necessity of the small be the virtue of the large. To propose rather than impose, to negotiate rather than to compel, to discuss rather than dictate, to reconcile rather than radicalize, to respect rather than humiliate, to cooperate rather than exploit, and to refrain rather than abuse: those are the rules of conduct dear to the small States, characteristics which appear to be increasingly necessary in many regions of our planet, if what we want is for the people of the world to live together in dignity and fight together against hunger, poverty, disease and the negative effects of the demographic explosion. It is for this reason, that I venture to call the attention of the members of the Assembly to the virtues of the micro-States and to ask them to consider whether they might not make them their own. It is simply a question of the great nations making an imaginative effort to put themselves in the place of those who possess neither military power nor human and economic resources to impose on others, and consequently to realize that problems may be approached in another way, with probably better guarantees for a successful outcome. This approach finds its origin in the strictest respect for the identity of others, of their collective personality and all the features that contribute to it, as well as their culture; for culture is always an element of integration. And it is precisely the balance of cultures and their interaction which is the basis for peaceful coexistence, which is in itself considerable, and even more for a cordial and fraternal life together. Let us therefore forget the worries of assimilation and the belief in the superiority of the majority, and let us try to organize life together with mutual respect, something that becomes increasingly important in a world under great pressure from demographic change and immigration. Allow me to refer to my country, the Principality of Andorra, which with a population of only 61,000 inhabitants has three different educational systems - Andorran, French, and Spanish - three quarters of its population being immigrants, and a small territory stuck like an island in the middle of the European Union. And I believe that a study of some of the balances that exist in Andorra might be useful to efforts in southern Africa, in the Middle East, or in other parts of Europe and the world where people are struggling to bring about peace. Think, likewise, of the great worries of our times, where the drug trafficking and organized crime have led to a dramatic deterioration in urban safety. Members might agree with me that the affirmation 'small is beautiful' might appear excessive, but it nevertheless guarantees a level of security far greater than that which exists in the enormous urban conurbations of more developed countries. I should like further to call the Assembly’s attention to the urgency of the task of protecting the environment, and the defence of nature. Members might agree with me that a smaller territory is much easier to manage, according to environmental criteria, and consequently that there is less chance of environmental abuse. In the same way, the scarcity of human resources probably makes us more inclined to consider the problems that we shall discuss at the World Summit on Social Development in Copenhagen, namely, individual problems of marginalized people, of those that cannot follow the competitive majority in the apparent flow of progress, of the disabled, the sick, and, in general, all those in need of solidarity. I know that in a forum such as this Christian individualism is just a partial approach to these questions, but I am convinced that, with a translation into other cultures or religions, on a small scale it is much easier to give a personal answer to the problems of the many. And also, in general terms, I think that this philosophy is the one that often inspires solidarity movements, as is the case today in Rwanda, where, for example, the spirit of collective life common to small communities might have prevented conflict. 9 In a world that is increasingly interdependent, and increasingly globalized, I sincerely believe that the micro-States, although indeed small, are not superfluous. And we can even make useful contributions and be points of reference in many cases. Sovereign States are increasingly affected by the sovereignty of others and by necessary international agreements; but freedom, and the spirit of solidarity are more important than sovereignties or borders. I ask the Assembly therefore to consider the possibility that we all make an effort to act like micro-States: we who are micro-States, and therefore have no alternative, and those who are not, because they have come to the conclusion that this is the way we will all be able, together, to contribute more positively to peace, progress and coexistence. And as from the sum of small streams of water the big rivers are born, perhaps from the sum of small identities and from respect for others and minorities, we may be able to build together a more equitable, a more secure and a more livable world for us, for our children, and for generations to come. 