Allow me at the outset, on behalf of the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election as President of the General Assembly at this session, a historic session that coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. I am confident that under his guidance, our session will be crowned with success. Let me take this opportunity also to convey our appreciation for the dynamic and effective activities undertaken by his predecessor, His Excellency Minister Amara Essy. We would like to express our appreciation also for the perseverance shown by His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali in serving the common cause of all nations for peace, national independence and development. This session of the General Assembly is a special occasion for us to look back at the changes in the world and at the growth of the United Nations over the past 50 years, since the end of the Second World War. Out of the tumultuous course of mankind’s history in those 50 years, let us identify what has changed, what has not, and what cannot change. Only with such a clear vision will we be able to chart our course into the twenty-first century and to find the confidence to build a United Nations that can meet the expectations of all of us. While the first half of the twentieth century has left in the mind of mankind the haunting memories of two dreadful world wars, in the second half of this century, despite the fierce local wars that have taken place — such as those in Indochina, Korea and Viet Nam — nations have been spared the horrors of a global conflagration. Moreover, after several decades of an unbridled arms race, the world has chosen the course of reason, striving for the long-term goal of general and complete disarmament, especially with regard to nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. The recent indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons gave rise to much hope. However, the nuclear testing undertaken right afterwards caused disillusion in international public opinion and has made it imperative for all nations — first and foremost the nuclear-weapon States — to redouble their efforts in a fully responsible manner, so as to 19 complete the comprehensive test-ban treaty in the course of the next year. While the threat of a new world war and a nuclear holocaust is receding, peace and security remain elusive for many regions and countries beset by racial, ethnic and religious conflicts, and terrorist activities that take on disquieting proportions. In the intractable case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a peaceful solution should be pursued, without the imposition of measures, from any quarter whatsoever, that may complicate the situation further and cause more suffering to the multi-ethnic population of Bosnia. The past half-century can also be said to have been a shining chapter in the history of the struggle of peoples to regain their national independence, sovereignty and the right to be the masters of their own destinies, and to strive for well-being, freedom and equality within the international community. The international community has been following very closely the peace process in the Middle East and welcomes its recent progress. Only strong political will and respect for the fundamental national rights of the Palestinian people and the legitimate interests of all the parties concerned can bring about lasting stability in this region of the world. In practice, however, the basic and universal principles of sovereignty and sovereign equality continue to be ignored or violated by reason of the unequal and undemocratic set-up of international relations and through impositions upon, and interference in, the internal affairs of other countries, for different reasons and with a variety of justifications. At the end of this twentieth century, thanks to mankind’s achievements in science and technology and in communication and production, and thanks also to the hard work of all nations, our world as a whole has become more prosperous and more alive, with the manifold increase in material and non-material flows and exchanges, thus facilitating better mutual understanding and closer relationships among nations. However, our conscience cannot rest easy in view of a reality that we cannot ignore: the fact that one-fifth of mankind still lives in abject poverty, and the challenges posed by the enormous gap between the annual per capita gross national product for the least developed countries — less than $200 — and that of advanced industrialized countries, which is more than a hundred times higher. Furthermore, all nations, no matter where in the world, face global problems that threaten our economic achievements and the progress made in enhancing the quality of life. Nowadays, mankind has a clearer, more holistic awareness of development, peace and security. We understand better the close correlation and interaction between economic development and social development, between internal security and external security, and between economic, social and military security. Another reality of the world today, which is of far- reaching significance to each nation and individual, is the increasing role of international law, which binds nations and circumscribes and harmonizes the behaviour of States through multilateral instruments and institutions. Such a role is all the more crucial in the light of the tendency to blur the boundaries between national and international jurisdiction, as well as to extend the enforcement of one country’s laws beyond its borders. Recently, international opinion has been increasingly concerned about the fact that the implementation of United Nations sanctions is shifting towards punishment or retribution for private political motives, in contravention of the purposes originally assigned by the Charter. Nor can public opinion remain unconcerned by the fact that sanctions in reality affect mainly the life and health of the innocent civilian population, and therefore cannot accept the prolongation of sanctions regardless of their effectiveness and consequences. In view of this, international opinion cannot but protest the imposition of unilateral sanctions for several decades, such as is the case of the embargo against Cuba. We express our sincere sympathy for the hardships experienced by the Cuban people and strongly urge that the embargo against Cuba be lifted, and that the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly be promptly and effectively implemented. In short, 50 years after the Second World War, the world offers us a scene of vivid contrasts between continuity and change, between stagnation and development, between division and integration, especially the vast and profound integration that unfolds before us under the impact of the trend towards interdependence, regionalization and globalization. Moreover, the powerful vitality and steadfast determination which drive peoples to preserve their national traditions and cultural identities demonstrate their will to safeguard from within the inevitable process of international integration something stable and lasting, which links the present of each nation to the roots of its traditions, and the need to affirm the singularity of each society, each nation and each 20 community, and not only of each individual. The history of the past 50 years is a clear testimony thereof. Over the past half century, the United Nations has weathered the tests and trials of the cold war and of the immediate post-cold-war years to endure and grow. Its indispensable role as a centre for harmonizing the actions of nation States in a world characterized by rapid and complex changes and increasing interdependence has been recognized by all Members. As I have mentioned, the United Nations has recorded some encouraging achievements for peace and development, for equality and justice. However, given the speed and scope of changes taking place in the world, it must be recognized that the United Nations has failed to reform and adjust itself in keeping with the new situation and with the trend of the times, and thus to address the needs of nations. We are of the view that the peace-keeping operations of the United Nations must strictly observe the principle of respect for independence, sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs of States, and should go hand in hand with the persevering search for a peaceful solution. The United Nations ought to draw the lessons of the successes and failures of its recent peace-keeping operations so as to better discharge the responsibility entrusted to it by the community of its Member States. It is certain that in a few weeks, during the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, our Heads of State and Government will voice the hopes that the peoples of the world place in our Organization. For this reason, it is imperative that we turn the United Nations into an effective instrument to serve the common ideals and interests of mankind in the next century. The challenge for the United Nations, as it tackles the burning issues of today’s world, is to continue upholding the progressive spirit enshrined in its Charter and adequately to implement, with all due attention, both the “Agenda for Peace” and the “Agenda for Development”, overcoming the discrepancy between the desirable and the possible so that the United Nations can be a true representative — in the fullest sense of the term — of the expectations and interests of its Members, in its structure and organization, its agenda, its mandate and its mode of operation. This requires that the General Assembly should play an “essential role” as the Secretary-General reminded us at the opening of this session, namely that by virtue of the principle of “equal rights ... of nations large and small”, it is the General Assembly that is endowed with the democratic legitimacy of our global Organization. Mr. Kittikhoun (Lao People’s Democratic Republic), We agree with the overall thrust of the draft declaration on the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and believe that it is particularly important to reaffirm the principles of respect for independence, sovereignty and sovereign equality, territorial integrity and non-interference in the jurisdiction and the internal affairs of nations, the peaceful settlement of disputes and non- use of force or threat to use force. At the same time, the positive role that the United Nations has played and should continue to play in helping nations exercise their right to self-determination and to development should not be forgotten. The declaration should not fail to address two topical issues. One is the need for a Security Council that is more effective, more representative and transparent in its workings, while the other is the need for adequate resources to enable the United Nations fully to carry out its mandate. Viet Nam recognizes a plain fact of everyday life, which is that whoever contributes more shall be entitled to more rights. But conversely, whoever has more rights will have to show greater responsibility. Therefore, the richest countries should set an example by meeting their financial obligations in full and on time, which is of vital significance for our Organization at this juncture. We particularly agree with the stress placed by the draft declaration on poverty as the scourge visited upon billions of people on our planet, as well as on the human person as the centre of the whole development process. Those are only some preliminary observations. In this incredibly changing world, the Asia-Pacific region in general and South-East Asia in particular are entering a new era with profound changes and great promises for peaceful cooperation and dynamic development. Most striking is the common consciousness and efforts of the whole region directed towards building a peaceful and stable environment conducive to the development of each country in the region and of the region as a whole. As a country in the dynamic region and a member of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), Viet Nam will make positive contributions toward those common objectives. Viet Nam’s official membership in ASEAN since last July, the participation of Laos and Cambodia as observers and Myanmar’s accession to the Bali Treaty have opened up prospects for further strengthening cooperation throughout the region and for expanding ASEAN into an association of all 10 countries of the region. These are the foundation and components of a South-East Asia of peace, stability and prosperity. Together with the other countries concerned, the ASEAN countries recently held the second ASEAN Regional 21 Forum, at which the participating countries agreed to promote cooperation on an equal footing among all parties, by taking the appropriate measures, and in the short term by stepping up confidence-building measures in order to consolidate peace and security in the region. Alongside that favourable overall trend, there are potentially destabilizing factors in the region. The dispute in the Eastern Sea and other recent developments remain a source of concern for countries both within and outside the region. Regarding this issue, we would like to reaffirm once again our position, which is that the disputes in the Eastern Sea should be settled through peaceful negotiations in accordance with the principles contained in the Manila Declaration adopted by ASEAN in 1992, as confirmed at the recent ASEAN ministerial meeting in Brunei, and in conformity with international law, especially the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which entered into force at the end of 1994. Pending a fundamental and lasting solution to these disputes, all parties concerned should maintain the status quo and refrain from any action that might further complicate the situation, especially the use or threat of use of force. For Viet Nam, 1995 has been a year of great historic significance. As we join the rest of the international community in preparing for the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, our people are solemnly celebrating several other major events, especially the fiftieth anniversary of the proclamation of our independence. During the past half century, our people have endured tremendous human sacrifice and material loss in order to safeguard our national independence. To rebuild and develop our homeland, we have overcome innumerable tests and trials, as well as the extremely heavy consequences of long and fierce wars. Thanks to the determination of the whole nation united in mind and in action, our reform and renewal process, now in its tenth year, has achieved major initial results, thus making it possible to move to a new stage of development: the industrialization and modernization of our country. Recent years have seen the continuous development of our economy, with an average annual growth rate of 8.2 per cent, an annual increase in exports of 20 per cent, and a 40 per cent annual increase in foreign investment. The standard of living is steadily improving. Economic development is increasingly linked with social and cultural development. Our objective is to build a strong and prosperous Viet Nam with an equitable and civilized society. Alongside our economic reforms, we have carried out political reforms to build a State governed by the rule of law, and which is of the people, by the people and for the people. On the basis of our 1992 Constitution, we have promulgated a series of laws, codes and legal decrees in order ever more completely to ensure the rights and interests of all citizens, and at the same time to create a firm legal basis for governing the country. These all- round achievements constitute a firm guarantee of social and political stability and lay the foundation needed for future sustainable development. Along with reform in all aspects of social life, Viet Nam has consistently pursued its foreign policy of broad openness, the thrust of which is to diversify and multilateralize its external relations in order to create a stable environment and external conditions conducive to the task of building and defending the country, and to enhance Viet Nam’s position on the international scene. To implement this policy, Viet Nam has established diplomatic relations with nearly 160 countries, including all the world’s major Powers and leading economic and political centres. Viet Nam’s accession to full membership of ASEAN, the signing of an agreement of cooperation with the European Union, and the normalization and establishment of full diplomatic relations with the United States all took place in July this year. That was no coincidence, but was the outcome of a whole process of implementing a foreign policy inspired by a new spirit, by which Viet Nam is willing to be the friend of all nations in the international community, and to strive for peace, national independence and development. This provides eloquent testimony to the correctness of our foreign policy and to its consonance with the trends of our times. As it broadens its relations with all countries, Viet Nam is also endeavouring consistently to improve and strengthen relations with international organizations, including the international financial and monetary institutions, and is ready to participate in regional and global cooperation organizations. Following the normalization of its relations with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Asia Development Bank and its participation in the ASEAN Free Trade Area, Viet Nam is now actively preparing to join the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum and the World Trade Organization at an appropriate time. Viet Nam continues to maintain close and effective cooperation with the United Nations and with specialized agencies of the United Nations system. The achievements of its foreign policy provide a new impetus for Viet Nam to accelerate the process of regional and global integration, and to participate more 22 effectively in global forums and institutions, with a view to tackling the pressing problems facing all mankind, and to contributing meaningfully to the common endeavour of the international community to achieve peace, national independence, friendship, cooperation among States and development. Today and in the weeks to come, from every point on the horizon, peoples of the world, regardless of language, race or culture, are turning to this Hall, where the representatives of 185 countries are assembled at a historic moment marking half a century of the United Nations with the ardent hope and expectation that the Organization will truly enter a new era, in which its own motto, “United for a better world” can become a reality. There is no promise more dear to our hearts and no commitment more solemn than our determination to prepare ourselves for the common journey into the twenty-first century, to realize the noble purposes of the Charter of the United Nations for a better world and for a fairer and more reasonable world order that will meet the ardent hopes of the present generation and that will build a sound foundation for succeeding generations. I would like first of all to extend sincere congratulations to the President on his unanimous election at this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. While expressing my delegation’s full confidence that he will steer our deliberations to a successful conclusion, I wish also to seize this opportunity to assure him of my delegation’s full support and cooperation in the discharge of this heavy responsibility entrusted to him. It gives me great pleasure to commend my colleague, your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, for the very able and outstanding manner in which he presided over the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Let me also take this opportunity to pay tribute to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for all the efforts he has been making to ensure that the United Nations is as effective and as efficient as possible. As we enter the second half of the last decade of the twentieth century, there are two interrelated and vital issues which will continue to pose major challenges to the international community: peace and development. There can be no doubt that the degree to which the United Nations is effective in promoting peace and in ensuring development for all is the most appropriate yardstick for judging how effective and vital the United Nations has been and will be in fulfilling the purposes for which it came into being. We pay tribute to the Secretary-General for having accorded these two major concerns of the international community the importance they so rightly deserve in his Agenda for Peace and Agenda for Development. The few years that have elapsed since the end of the cold war confrontation have made us all realize that peace and security can hardly be ensured through mere concord between and among the major Powers. The removal of the threat hanging over humanity that was the undesirable symbol of the cold war is, and will remain, a major achievement that can never be minimized. All those devoted to peace must and should, within the United Nations and other forums, continue to contribute their due share towards ensuring that humanity is absolutely secure from the potential dangers posed by nuclear weapons, a noble task towards the achievement of which a genuinely comprehensive test-ban treaty constitutes a major step forward and a top priority. It is the earnest hope of Ethiopia and of Africa that this goal would be attained as soon as possible. However, as much as we derive satisfaction from the removal of threats to peace and security associated with the period of the cold war, what the past few years have made abundantly clear is that the challenges we face in ensuring peace and security are no less daunting, and no less of serious concern today, than they were in the cold war period. The types of conflicts that have been manifesting themselves in recent years, not only in Africa, but also in other parts of the world, have been more of an intra-State than an inter-State nature. The Secretary-General of our Organization has justifiably argued in a convincing manner in his “Supplement to An Agenda for Peace'” (A/50/60) how difficult it has become for the United Nations, under these circumstances, to fulfil effectively its peace-keeping obligations. No doubt, no matter how difficult the task, the United Nations should and must continue to assume major responsibility for international peace and security in all parts of the world, including Africa. We, member States of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), have, in the course of the past few years, been in the process of augmenting OAU’s capacity to play a meaningful role in the area of the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts on our continent. This effort will continue. But it is vital that the international community lend its support to this African initiative as some have already done. Above all, it is imperative that a more effective cooperation be created between the United Nations and the Organization of 29 African Unity in this area, and we are looking forward to the consultation at the highest level between the two, which is scheduled to take place soon. In this regard, on its part as the current Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, Ethiopia is fully committed to the promotion of full cooperation between the two organizations. It is the view of my delegation, however, that no matter how effective the United Nations becomes in mobilizing resources for peace-keeping, no matter how refined the techniques utilized are, the achievement of peace would remain as remote as ever as long as the underlying causes of conflict, in Africa or elsewhere, are not removed or mitigated. The search for peace, it is said, is in our minds; but it also has to do with conditions under which people live. In Africa, certainly, and this could be true in other parts of the world as well, the major sources of conflicts are in one way or another intertwined with economic hardship and social problems confronted by the majority of our peoples. It is impossible to assume that the difficulty we have had in freeing the African continent from the scourges of war is unrelated to the despair and the loss of confidence in the future on the part of the majority of our peoples - despair and lack of confidence in the future, the explanation for which lies in the ever-deteriorating economic situation faced by the overwhelming majority of our countries. It was largely as a result of the precipitous decline of the economies of African States in the 1980s - rightly characterized as a lost decade for Africa - that the General Assembly adopted in December 1991 the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s as a framework of partnership between Africa and the international community. It is now obvious that the commitments made by Africa’s development partners have so far remained unfulfilled. However, the majority of African countries have made substantial progress towards meeting their commitments in political areas and in carrying out the functioning of their economies more efficiently. In an era when the interdependence of nations is all too apparent and at a time when we all acknowledge that peace and security have become indivisible, the lack of sufficient commitment to the removal of obstacles to the development of Africa and other areas experiencing a similar situation, should be seen as a source of serious concern, with its immense implications for regional and international peace and security. To the extent that, in areas of the world such as Africa, peace can never be made to be durable without development, the best approach to and the most effective method for the prevention of conflicts is one that focuses on preventive measures in economic and social fields. As a minimum measure, developing countries, particularly African States, which dominate the list of least developed countries, need to be freed from the various impediments retarding and stunting their economic growth and development. One such very critical problem faced by African economies is the debt burden and the debt-servicing obligations, which continue to frustrate the ability of African countries to pull themselves out of the economic crisis that they have been facing for well over two decades. No part of the world has been as much affected by the debt burden as Africa. We do acknowledge some steps that have been taken, and the promises made with respect to bilateral debt, including at the Group of Seven Summit in Halifax. But the magnitude of the problem faced by African countries is such that nothing less than the most determined effort, political will and commitment by creditor nations to assist Africa overcome this major constraint would suffice for Africa to relaunch and revitalize itself for economic growth and development. On the eve of the twenty-first century, one-fifth of the world’s population is struggling amidst abject poverty. All the circumstances indicate that unless the problem of massive poverty is solved, it will be difficult for people to actively participate in development in any meaningful way under conditions of freedom and democracy. Thus, it is absolutely necessary to assist poverty-eradication measures in African countries in an integral and multidimensional manner. In this regard we emphasize the urgency of implementing the Programme of Action of the World Summit for Social Development, which aims at the eradication of poverty. We also appreciate the concern voiced on the preponderance of poverty at the recent Group of Seven Summit in Halifax, Canada. It is also imperative that Africa’s partners in economic cooperation take the necessary steps to ensure that full access to their markets is ensured to Africa’s exports. We still have to contend with the paradox that while liberalization is promoted as a condition for partnership with Africa, the same nations that lay down 30 such prescriptions are often seen to be failing to live up to those standards. The newly created situation in world trade following the establishment of the World Trade Organization has made the difficulty faced by Africa and other developing countries in this area all the more complex and daunting, and if flexibility in the application of agreements is not introduced, in favour of African countries, the consequences could be very serious. It is the conviction of the Ethiopian delegation that, in the final analysis, each of our countries, including those of Africa, should assume full responsibility for the economic and political future of its peoples. The call on the international community to do the maximum possible for Africa in the economic area is an appeal to help remove the obstacles hindering the development of the continent so that Africa can regenerate itself through the efforts of its own peoples. This is most particularly true with respect to food security, without which Africa, including my own country, can never regain its self-respect and dignity and be taken seriously as an effective actor on the international scene. I wish, in this regard, to commend the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) for its proposal to convene a world food summit in 1996, a move which has been fully endorsed by African Heads of State and Government. It is true that we in Africa also need to put our own house in order. We cannot afford to look for external excuses for maladies that are sometimes of our own creation. In this respect, Africa’s economic ills are not totally unrelated to the mismanagement of its economies by its own leaders. Nor can it be denied that some of the conflicts in our continent have been caused by ill-governance and by the denial of democratic rights to the peoples of the continent. The path that my own country, Ethiopia, has traversed during the past two decades is very instructive in this regard. It was little more than four years ago that the Ethiopian peoples managed to get rid of a military dictatorship that had for 17 years brutalized the society, brought its social fabric to the breaking point, almost destroyed the country’s economy through mismanagement and the imposition of stifling State control, and militarized the society. For our new Government, which was established soon after the overthrow of the military dictatorship, the responsibilities of restoring peace and security to the country, introducing democracy and respect for human rights, and rehabilitating and reforming the economy were daunting tasks that needed to be tackled simultaneously and immediately. But we feel that we have passed the test, and our success in putting in place in our country the first-ever democratically elected Government in the long history of Ethiopia is a source of great satisfaction to our peoples. Our vision for Ethiopia is one in which all its peoples would be proud of belonging to it. This is an Ethiopia inspired by grass roots democracy and a genuine devolution of power within a federal system as stipulated in the Constitution of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia - a country which would be one of the pillars of peace and cooperation in its own subregion and in the African continent as a whole. My country attaches great importance to full cooperation with countries of its subregion with a view to promoting peace and laying the foundation for joint efforts aimed at the economic revival of our area. No part of our continent has suffered as much as the Horn of Africa in the past two decades, as a result of civil wars and instability. Some of the conflicts in our subregion still remain unresolved. There are many reasons why the countries and the peoples of our subregion should and must be preoccupied with the need to establish durable peace. But this is by no means an easy task, particularly when some find it difficult to live within the bounds of international legality, to respect the principles of international law governing inter-State relations and to observe the norms of civilized international behaviour. But no matter how challenging the task, Ethiopia will continue to be committed to promoting peace, stability and cooperation throughout Africa in general and in its subregion in particular. This is a very historic session of the General Assembly. We are preparing to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of our Organization. As a founding Member of the United Nations, Ethiopia takes pride in its achievements. We also long for increased contributions to the promotion of the sacred principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, whose implementation is so vital for ensuring peace, security and development for all. If the global community could not effectively respond to the call for poverty alleviation, economic and social development, the achievement of peace and 31 stability, nothing less would be at stake than the survival of our Organization itself. This unique opportunity should be seized to chart a new path for the Organization - a new beginning whose features should be a more democratic and a more representative United Nations. The various organs of the United Nations, including the Security Council, should conduct their business with absolute transparency and accountability. It is my delegation’s earnest hope, therefore, that at this session important steps will be taken to make the United Nations more credible, more legitimate and more effective. I wish to close my statement by reiterating and reaffirming my country’s commitment to the United Nations and its devotion to efforts designed to protect and to revitalize the Organization. On behalf of the delegation of my country, I would like to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the lofty post of President of the fiftieth, anniversary session of the United Nations General Assembly. We would also like to express our deep gratitude to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who is at the head of our Organization at this momentous time, for his tireless efforts to strengthen peace and security around the world. The fireworks commemorating victory in the Second World War still resounded when our Organization was coming into being, but the world had already been divided by military and ideological confrontation. In the Soviet Union, Ministries of Foreign Affairs were founded in each of the republics and hastily staffed with diplomatic personnel. However, the Soviet Union’s attempts to use its republics to increase the number of votes in its bloc within the newly formed international Organization were not successful. Only three out of the 15 republics were accepted as Members of the United Nations. Frozen by the years of the cold war, we gained our independence without any violence or bloodshed. Now, almost half a century later, we have entered into the community of fully-fledged Members of the United Nations. Since then, the world has gone through dramatic changes. Today we need the United Nations as never before. Through the United Nations, we, the post-socialist countries, enter into the world and interact with countries of the North and the South, the West and the East. Within only four years of attaining independence, Kyrgyzstan has become a Member of the United Nations and has joined the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), the North Atlantic Cooperation Council (NACC) and the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO), as well as many other international political and financial organizations. The United Nations represents the main axis of the foreign policy of our young country, and we will work without respite to increase the effectiveness of our Organization. As small countries, we see in the United Nations a guarantor of our independence, security and justice, based on mutual respect for international law. The law is our strongest argument in the family of the United Nations. As countries with economies in transition and as developing democracies, we receive extremely important and urgent aid and support from the United Nations: medicine, food and technical equipment. The Gramin Bank is fighting rising poverty by giving the people microloans. We are trying to build a civil society by educating the non-governmental organizations, lawyers and journalists. On 24 December 1995, open presidential elections will take place in Kyrgyzstan, to which we would like to invite observers from all over the world. One of our most significant achievements during our first years of independence, as our President, Askar Akayev, has pointed out, is — in addition to our small economic advances on the road to a free market — the attainment of an inter-ethnic consensus, internal stability and peace in our country. Hidden tensions based on religious and ethnic grounds erupted in Central Asia after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, requiring the involvement of the United Nations, the OSCE and the CIS. We commend the mediating role of the United Nations, which led to a cease-fire agreement and the beginning of a dialogue between the sides in the inter-Tajik conflict. The five countries of Central Asia, along with the Russian Federation, are doing their best to launch the fifth round of talks on the conflict in Tajikistan. These should lead to a dialogue regarding fundamental issues pertaining to the political future of the country. Actions taken by the organs of the United Nations system, the donor countries and international financial institutions should range from humanitarian assistance to long-term development programmes. This is true for both Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. I strongly support the proposal by the Secretary of State of the United Kingdom, Mr. Malcolm Rifkind, for the establishment within the United Nations of special programmes for stabilization and transition. It is a sign of the times that, in the face of horrible and prolonged conflicts, all the major countries, for the first time in half a century, have joined together to build and keep the peace. Step by step, the knot in the Middle East is being untied. We would like to congratulate Israel and Palestine on the recent signing of an agreement on the West Bank, 17 and we hope that both parties will have patience, courage and success on this difficult road to peace. There are promising hopes for a settlement to be reached that will end the conflict in Bosnia. Kyrgyzstan welcomes the peace talks based on the Washington Agreements on the creation of a State based on the federal principle. We are convinced that the time has come to focus the world’s attention on the situation in Afghanistan. There can be no peace in Asia without the settlement of the conflict in Afghanistan. It is impossible to be a mere spectator when the flames of wars and conflicts scorch our borders and decrease stability. Kazakstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan have announced their willingness to create a peace-keeping unit under the auspices of the United Nations. We are convinced of the need to have such United Nations operational peace-keeping forces in reserve, so they can be called upon in extreme situations. There remains an undiscovered potential when it comes to cooperation among the United Nations and the OSCE, the United Nations and the CIS, and all of them together when it comes to solving conflicts in post-Soviet territory. It is not by competing but by cooperating that the regional security institutions can stop the violence and explosions. They can use a wide spectrum of preventive measures, such as “planting” the culture of peace, bringing the sides to the negotiating table and constant monitoring. Border issues, the distribution of water and natural resources, the rights of ethnic minorities: we in Central Asia need international legal expertise in all these areas, as well as the introduction of proven legal, political, socio- economic norms and regulations. Fully sharing the responsibility for peace and security in our region, the newly independent States of Central Asia are trying to do all they can to keep peace and order on the land given to us by God. Kazakstan is working with persistence to organize a conference on confidence-building measures in Asia. Uzbekistan is working on the idea of a standing seminar on the subject of regional security. Turkmenistan declared its intention to become a neutral State. During a meeting in May of this year at Lake Issyk-Kul, representatives of the five countries, with the support of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), created a standing seminar on stable development for Central Asia. Kyrgyzstan and other Central Asian countries supported with great enthusiasm the unconditional and indefinite extension of the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty at the 1995 Conference on that Treaty. Along with Uzbekistan, my country calls for establishing Central Asia as a nuclear-weapon-free zone. It is our firm wish to finalize work on the agreement on a comprehensive test- ban treaty no later than 1996 and to make the moratorium on nuclear testing universal and permanent. Free economic and trade zones have become efficient instruments in speeding up trade and development among countries and continents. To make the world a safer place, we need other types of zones: not just non-nuclear but “non-conflict” zones. Central Asia could become such a testing ground. The lessons of the last decade require focused and compassionate attention from the United Nations and the world community in general on countries in transition such as Kyrgyzstan. The United Nations and its organizations — UNDP, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the World Health Organization (WHO) — although sometimes overwhelmed by the unprecedented nature and scope of problems such as those of refugees, natural disasters, degradation of the environment, illegal drug trafficking and the spread of AIDS, deserve a great deal of credit for helping us to solve severe social problems in this difficult transition period. It is not only professional office managers who work there, but true implementators of reforms. World forums of the United Nations — from Cairo to Copenhagen, from Beijing to the Habitat II Conference scheduled to be held in Istanbul — bind us together in the United Nations in understanding the magnitude of the social problems confronting humanity. Implementing their decisions will require enthusiasm and a huge concentration of effort. The most important thing now is action — the political will of Member States to go forward— effective international monitoring and “glasnost”. The participation of women in all these transformations is of critical importance. The world in the twenty-first century means equal rights for men and women, for my son and my daughter, my daughter and millions of other young girls and women in Central Asia, to be married in accordance with their own choice and desires, to have unrestricted access to education and employment, to be elected to Parliament and to work at all levels of government. It is for the sake of these goals that I am tirelessly working today. 18 We welcome the intention and determination of the President for this session, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, personally to lead the activities of a High-level Open-ended Working Group to report on the subject of reform to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. We, the Member States of the United Nations, expect not only thorough and precise reports, but seek concrete, genuine reforms and changes. Kyrgyzstan favours an enlargement of the Security Council, while bearing in mind the need for appropriate regional balance. Germany and Japan, in our view, deserve to be elected to the Council as permanent members. Being among the biggest contributors to the United Nations budget, they are playing an ever-increasing role in strengthening peace and promoting development and democracy. It is also necessary to increase the number of non-permanent Security Council members. The world at the end of the twentieth century is as complicated and multi-faceted as we are — peoples and countries on six continents who are burdened with their daily problems and worries, their dreams and concerns. Modern means of communication and speed have encouraged humankind to feel more united on an unprotected Earth. It is likely that no one would have tried to rule the world if it were a single voting district. The United Nations, empowered by its 185 Member States with a clear understanding of its responsibility, is wisely and competently leading us to the new millennium. My country is going forward consciously and confidently under the United Nations banner with a hope for a better future. Mr. President, it is undoubtedly a great honour to be the President of the United Nations General Assembly session in this very important year. Please accept my sincere congratulations on your election and my very best wishes for a successful course of its fiftieth session. I should also like to thank your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for his significant contribution to the positive results achieved at last year’s session. By the end of 1995, the Slovak Republic will have concluded the third year of its sovereign existence. Although my country is relatively new in the international community, it has during the past three years confirmed that its activities in the international scene are based on respect for international law and for the principles of democratic coexistence between nations. The basic coordinate of Slovakia’s foreign policy is its integration into the geopolitical and economic sphere with which we not only have numerous historical ties, but also — and, I think, more importantly — with which we share the same hierarchy of modern civilized values. Along with other Central European countries, Slovakia has made significant progress in the transformation of its political and economic system, as well as in the process of democratization. We feel political and economical closeness to the West, and we are aware of the unique historical opportunity to join the prosperous union of democratic European countries. Slovakia as a standard democratic State is an integral part of the Central European space, which is undoubtedly important for political and military stability in Europe. We want to contribute to building that stability by maintaining good-neighbourly relations backed by a set of legally sound treaties, as well as by mutually beneficial cooperation. We proceed from the fact that such cooperation is a basic precondition for the stability and prosperity of all the countries in our region. Good relations with the States of the G-7, of the Commonwealth of Independent States and all democratic countries, are also of great importance to us. We wish to make full use of the opportunity for cooperation with the dynamically developing Asia-Pacific region, with the Latin American countries, and with Near and Middle East countries as well. The Slovak Republic participates in maintaining international peace and security within the framework of United Nations activities. Our priority at this stage is full membership in the Conference on Disarmament (CD). In this respect I cannot omit to note that our membership in the Conference on Disarmament following that of the former Czecho-Slovak federation, which had been working in that organ since the very beginning, remains the only unresolved issue. In all other organs, the seat occupied by the former Czecho-Slovakia was assigned to either the Czech Republic or to Slovakia by elections or by appointments based on the respective rules, with both successor States having agreed not to compete with each other in order to obtain seats in organs of the United Nations system which had been vacated by the dissolution of the federation. In accordance with this agreement and with the support of the Eastern European regional group, Slovakia submitted its candidature for the seat vacated by the former Czecho-Slovak federation, to which Slovakia is one of the successor States, in the Conference on Disarmament. In other words, we have had and we still have a serious interest in filling the gap which has arisen in the membership of that Conference. We consider it unjustifiable to link the issue of filling the vacancy in the membership of the Conference with the broader issue of the expansion of its membership, which has been under discussion for many years. We expect that States members of the Conference will understand this situation and will support Slovakia and its legitimate effort to pursue the previous activities of Czecho-Slovak diplomacy in the Conference on Disarmament. The results of the Fifth Review Conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) represent an important impulse for the further activities of the Conference on Disarmament. The extension of the Treaty for an indefinite period is the most important result of the Review Conference. We consider it a precondition for the further development of international cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, as well as for the complete elimination of nuclear weapons. The Non- Proliferation Treaty has played a positive role in the modern history of mankind. Being the only Treaty with a global character, it has managed to reduce the risk of further expansion of the group of nuclear-weapon States. Slovakia places special emphasis on the preparation of the comprehensive test-ban treaty (CTBT) in 1996, and supports the immediate commencement of negotiations aimed at elaborating the text of the fissile materials cut-off treaty. This would lead to further progress in building up a new security architecture, and it would become an important milestone on the road to an era when nuclear weapons will be considered unnecessary. Slovakia, as one of the signatory States, attaches great importance to the chemical weapons Convention (CWC), which has outlawed a whole category of weapons of mass destruction. It is my pleasure to inform the Assembly that the Slovak Parliament approved this Convention three weeks ago, and we will soon submit the ratification instruments to the Secretary-General. In connection with the forthcoming Review Conference of the States Parties to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or To Have Indiscriminate Effects (CCW), my country is ready to support the successful course of work and the adoption of the text of Protocol IV, which would enable the effective implementation of the Convention. Slovakia was among the very first countries to place an embargo on the export of anti- personnel land-mines. We also highly appreciate the results of the International Meeting on United Nations Mine Clearance Programmes held under the auspices of the Secretary-General. This forum stressed the need for a more active approach to the reduction of negative impacts caused by the use of these inhumane weapons, which especially afflict the civil population, including innocent children. The conflict on the territory of the former Yugoslavia has thoroughly tested the entire international community, but especially the United Nations Organization itself. The level at which we pass this test will affect relations in the international political scene for the next few decades. Slovakia considers peace talks to be the only way leading to a stable and just solution. Military actions have turned out to be counter-productive and to have only a temporary character. They cannot overcome the animosity between the warring sides. Our effort is aimed at finding generally acceptable solutions agreed upon by all parties at the negotiating table. Their equal status can be considered to be one of the crucial prerequisites in approaching this crisis. Therefore, we support the plan of the Contact Group and see it as a sound starting-point for direct negotiations between the parties to the conflict. In order to achieve stability in the Mediterranean region, a just and lasting solution of the problem of Cyprus should be found. In this context, my country supports the efforts of the international community and highly esteems in particular the contribution which the Secretary-General made in stressing the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Cyprus. We think it is 2 necessary that negotiations continue between the two communities in order to reunite the island. This process, if it is to be concluded successfully, has to take into consideration the individual and specific differences existing within the population. Slovakia is ready to continue providing its good services aimed at facilitating meetings between political representatives of the two communities. Since there are so many conflicts in all parts of the world, my country welcomes any progress that would strengthen international security and peace. Just to mention a few examples, visible progress has been made in the Middle East peace process focused on the final settlement of the long-standing Arab-Israeli conflict. The agreements signed between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization have proved the correct and appropriate nature of the peace talks and of the efforts of the two parties and of the international community. These efforts are based on the conviction that the two parties can coexist peacefully. United Nations peace-keeping operations have become one of the most discussed issues. Slovakia considers peace- keeping operations to be an important instrument with which the international community can maintain peace and security in the world. On the other hand, we realize that the current situation is not ideal. Therefore, we support the process of restructuring peace-keeping operations, which would increase their effectiveness and allow them to react quickly. This would require the mandate of peace-keeping missions to be clear, unambiguous and realistic — that is, implementable. In this context, we welcome the Supplement to the Agenda for Peace as an effort to strengthen the element of conflict prevention. We have been following the discussions on these issues with great attention and we share the view that, at this stage, peace-keeping, rather than peace-enforcement, is the realistic solution reflecting both the complexity of most conflicts and what the international community can sustain. Slovakia’s position has been reflected in the types of units and services provided for peace-keeping operations. At the current time we have 600 engineers in the former Yugoslavia and five military observers in the United Nations Angola Verification Mission. The Slovak Engineer Battalion was awarded an honorary diploma by the Force Commander of the United Nations Protection Force in November 1994 in recognition of its professional skills and the quality of the work done. In order to achieve the goals set forth by the United Nations, it is necessary that they be realized in a democratic environment, especially with regard to the protection of human rights. The Slovak Republic has succeeded to all the relevant international obligations of the former Czecho-Slovak federation. In the field of human rights, this means that Slovakia is a party to all of the international human rights conventions. This active approach has also resulted in a variety of documents approved in domestic legislation and in foreign policy. I should like to mention just a few examples, especially the incorporation of international human rights protection standards into the Constitution of the Slovak Republic; the further harmonization of other legal norms to those standards; the establishment of the Slovak National Centre for Human Rights, and the Governmental Committee for the implementation of the Action Programme against Racism, Anti-Semitism, Xenophobia, and Intolerance; active participation in the preparation of international documents concerning the protection of persons belonging to ethnic minorities; the ratification of the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of Minorities; and, last but not least, the reflection of this document, together with the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities in the Treaty on Good Neighbourly Relations and Friendly Cooperation signed this year with Hungary. Slovakia is very sensitive to all kinds of disrespect for and gross violation of values which are the keystone of human dignity, and my country therefore highly appreciates United Nations activities in regard to the protection of human rights. We are prepared to contribute to the strengthening of international cooperation in order to achieve higher respect for human rights and basic freedoms for all, regardless of their race, gender, language or religion. Speaking of human rights, we cannot overlook the rights of women. The Fourth World Conference on Women, which has just concluded, has raised a number of questions which will have to be resolved by our joint efforts. We welcome the successful outcome of this event and we were honoured, as a member of the Commission on the Status of Women, to take active part in the preparation of its final document, the Platform for Action. There are a number of social issues related to the status of women. One of them is the role of the family in society. The International Centre for Family Studies has been active in Slovakia since the end of 1993 and it has repeatedly proved its viability by actively participating at 3 various international events. This Centre was the co-organizer of the United Nations Interregional Meeting of National Coordinators — Focal Point for the Year of the Family, held in Bratislava from 4 to 7 February 1995. These facts have led our Government to seek opportunities for closer cooperation between the Centre and the United Nations. Slovakia has therefore submitted a proposal for affiliating the Centre with the United Nations. We would highly appreciate our proposal being given positive consideration. Slovakia appreciates the efforts of the United Nations with a view to the restructuring and revitalization of its activities in the economic, social and other related fields, as well as all reforms connected with them. We consider these efforts to be a contribution to improving the efficiency of the work of the United Nations and a positive reaction to all major changes taking place all over the world. We fully support the basic approach and goals of the two fundamental documents approved by the United Nations in the area of international economic cooperation in the 1990s: the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the Developing Countries, and the International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade. One of the main priorities anchored in these documents is the development of human resources within the overall development framework. These documents are based on global consensus. Their aim is to improve the social and economic situation of the poor and least developed parts of our planet and thus to eliminate one of the main sources of conflicts — the huge differences between the wealthy and poor countries. All these goals are in the best interest of the Slovak Republic, too. During the last decade, the number of countries meeting the criteria for being “least developed” has significantly increased. Together with other global problems such as environmental protection and sustainable development, which cannot be resolved by a single country or several countries, this is a challenge for all mankind, and for the most developed countries in particular. However, we must stress also the primary responsibility of the countries concerned for their further development. Nowadays, Slovakia itself, as well as other Central and East European countries, must face a variety of complicated economic problems related to the process of transition from a centrally planned economy to a market economy. This process has never before been carried out to such an extent. We are deeply interested in continued access to valuable information within United Nations projects related to know-how, human resources development and management training. This would certainly help us in carrying out our economic reform. Despite the complicated economic situation, my country has a strong will to participate actively in United Nations programmes in areas in which we could be of assistance, namely in areas concerning human resources in developing countries. For example, we see opportunities for broader participation by Slovak experts in development programmes. Slovakia supports all activities of the United Nations in the field of assistance to developing countries. We welcome the increasing efforts of these countries not to be in the position of passive recipients only, and we value their endeavour to take over the management of their economic and technical development. At the same time, we highly appreciate the United Nations role in implementing its projects, to reflect the needs of the receiving countries fully, while respecting specific features of their economies and their priorities and making use of the domestic human, technical and technological potential. Nowadays, when the United Nations is going through a complicated period of its existence, it is particularly important to determine the direction of its activities, with, as a starting-point, the processes going on in international relations. Interconnection between global and national interests is the defining factor in coping with the problems which all mankind is facing at the moment. If the United Nations is really to understand the very nature of these processes, it will be necessary to start its own reform. We support such reform and therefore support all steps that would strengthen the United Nations system and thereby enable it to perform its tasks more effectively. This reform will require, inter alia, the restructuring of most of the Organization’s main bodies. As for Security Council reform, we support expanding the Council by the addition of new members that are able to assume global responsibilities and have sufficient potential to support United Nations activities financially. The credibility and efficiency of the Security Council have to be stressed as the main priorities. We are fully aware of the difficult financial situation, which is a result of unpaid arrears by Member 4 States. Member States are very often unable to pay their assessed contributions. Therefore, we support the reform of the scale of assessment based on the principle of the capacity to pay, and we also expect the reform to increase effectiveness and transparency of spending. In connection with the United Nations budget, I wish to mention that Slovakia, in spite of the fact that it is undergoing a transformation of its economy and has to cope with various pressures on State finances, has always fulfilled its obligation to pay its assessed contribution to the regular budget in full. As concerns its contribution to the budget for peace-keeping operations, Slovakia is in the same position as the Czech Republic. These two countries have not been classified into any of the groups for the apportionment of peace-keeping expenses even though they have been Members of the United Nations for more than two and a half years. We believe that this issue will be resolved at this year’s session of the General Assembly, and that in so doing we shall take realistically into account the respective economic data. Having analysed the data and having compared it with data from other countries, we have reached the firm conviction that Slovakia should be placed among the Member States of Group “C” for the apportionment of peace-keeping expenses. From this rostrum I want to confirm that Slovakia is ready to shoulder its fair share of responsibility for this important activity of the United Nations. This year we commemorate five decades since the end of the horrors of the Second World War, since that moment when all nations put aside weapons with the intention of living in peace, and, for this reason, decided to establish an organization which would serve as a platform for international cooperation. Looking back at those decades we must logically come to the conclusion that the United Nations has played a crucial role in our history and that its existence is still justified. Although the ceremonies will culminate in meetings next month, we can already say that we did our best to ensure the commemoration of this anniversary with honour. For the celebration of this anniversary, a special committee established in Slovakia organized many education-oriented events, a number of which are still taking place. The main goal of all seminars, meetings, and television and radio broadcasts has been to focus more attention on the activities of this undoubtedly most important international organization, not only in the field of maintaining international peace and security but also, and especially, in the field of the development of international cooperation in all areas of human activity. I wish the best for this session of the General Assembly, and I wish it much spiritual strength in resolving the important issues which the United Nations is facing now. It is with great pleasure that I congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election as President of the General Assembly at this fiftieth session, at which we are commemorating the founding of the United Nations half a century ago. Your vast experience as a statesman and scholar is our assurance that this session will be crowned with success. I wish to thank your distinguished predecessor, the Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, whose untiring efforts to stimulate the reform process in our world Organization deserve special gratitude. Austria, a member of the European Union since 1 January 1995, fully endorses the comprehensive statement made on behalf of the Union by His Excellency Mr. Javier Solana Madariaga, the Spanish Foreign Minister. The Austrian Federal Government is strongly committed to the objectives of the United Nations Charter and to the work of the Organization. The United Nations has traditionally been a priority of the Austrian foreign policy. Later this year, on 14 December, Austria will celebrate the 40th birthday of its admission to membership of the United Nations. Last June, our Parliament held a commemorative session on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the signing of the United Nations Charter at San Francisco. At that meeting, all political parties represented in Parliament praised the achievements of the United Nations, expressed their appreciation of the untiring efforts of the Secretary- General in the quest for peace, justice and development, and reaffirmed the commitment of Austria to a strong and vibrant United Nations. Austria’s strong commitment to the world Organization is reflected in Vienna’s role as one of the Headquarters of the United Nations. The Federal Government and the City of Vienna lend maximum support to the United Nations Office as well as to the United Nations agencies and programmes based in our capital. More than 36,000 Austrians have served as “blue helmets” in United Nations peace-keeping operations, some of them as force commanders. More than 30 of our countrymen have lost their lives in the service of peace. This dedication to peace-keeping led the Federal Government to organize the Vienna Seminar on Peacemaking and Peace-Keeping for the Next Century, which was opened by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in March of this year. The report on this Conference was distributed this morning. My country also attaches particular importance to civilian peace-keeping and sponsors a very successful training programme on civilian peace-keeping and peace-building. At the city of Schlaining, this programme prepares election observers, human rights observers and humanitarian affairs officers for their difficult tasks. Concrete proposals for improving the civilian components of United Nations field missions were formulated at the International Conference on the Preparation of Civilian Personnel of United Nations Field Missions. In addition, Austria makes concerted efforts to support the United Nations preventive diplomacy capabilities. The Austrian Government will provide the Secretary-General with a list of personalities whose great experience will be at the disposal of the United Nations. After the end of the cold war, new hopes were vested in the Security Council. The United Nations took decisive action in response to military aggression against a sovereign State and undertook successful multipurpose peace-keeping missions to resolve several long-standing conflicts. At the same time, however, the international community and the Security Council were called upon to handle radically new situations. The United Nations had to respond to these new types of conflict with its traditional instruments: peace-keeping missions were deployed to keep a non-existent peace. As we all know, the United Nations missions in Somalia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina led to humiliation for the Organization and the international community. With regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina there is at last some realistic hope that the renewed determination of the United Nations, combined with the decisive support of NATO, may bring about a durable settlement and - above all - put an end to the plight of millions of innocent 21 victims, of whom the citizens of Sarajevo have become the symbol. Terminating the barbaric siege of the Bosnian capital, which has lasted since the spring of 1992, carries particular significance. Austria fully supports the initiative undertaken by the United States, in the framework of the Contact Group, to reach a comprehensive peace agreement that will ensure the existence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the peaceful reintegration of Eastern Slavonia. We welcome the agreement on Basic Principles reached in New York earlier this week as an important further step on the long and difficult road to peace. We remain deeply concerned about the fate of hundreds of thousands of refugees. Austria attaches the utmost importance to the rights of all refugees and displaced persons to freely return to their homes, as already stated by the London Conference of August 1992. Let me equally stress how important it is for the future of the region that all crimes be brought to light and the culprits punished. In this context, the War Crimes Tribunal set up in The Hague can play a crucial role. The efforts of the United Nations troops and their commanders, who constantly risk their lives for the cause of peace, deserve our admiration. I should like also to honour the memory of three of the main architects of the United States peace initiative who last August became victims of the siege of Sarajevo. During that same month, the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, Mr. Tadeusz Mazowiecki, resigned over what he called “the lack of consistency and courage displayed by the international community”. His relentless efforts in pointing out and documenting crimes against humanity committed in the war have earned him our highest respect. We welcome the continuation of this important task under the eminent leadership of Ms. Rehn. A comprehensive settlement also needs to include satisfactory solutions for minorities, not only in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and in particular in Kosovo, Vojvodina and Sanjak. The prospect of a well-coordinated contribution by the world community to the reconstruction of the devastated areas and to the relaunching of economic activities could help in facilitating the prospects for peace and its eventual consolidation. Furthermore, Austria believes that regional arms- control measures will be another decisive factor in the effort to secure peace and should therefore be initiated as early as possible. In the Middle East, long and arduous negotiations have now led to an important breakthrough. We applaud as a major step towards final peace and cooperation in the region yesterday’s signing of the agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) on the transfer of authority. Today, the main threats to peace and security are no longer predominantly attacks by one country against another sovereign State. We are faced with conflicts originating in ethnic tensions, authoritarian rule, economic despair or migratory movements. Peace and security are therefore threatened not only by violations of the code of conduct among States, but increasingly by violations of international standards on the relationship between citizens and their Governments and among different groups within countries. Our instruments for conflict resolution have to be adapted to these new circumstances. Part of this effort has to be an enhanced early- warning capacity of the United Nations. The earlier the United Nations can attempt to mediate, the more likely are its missions to meet with success. By increasing the number of cases where preventive diplomacy can be used successfully — thus avoiding the need for military peace- keeping — an early-warning system would also be a great investment. We also need to reinforce the capacity of the United Nations to assist Member States in their efforts to improve democratic structures, including the holding of free and fair elections, the full observance of human rights, the rights of minorities and fundamental freedoms, the strengthening of the rule of law, the fostering of popular participation and accountability of Governments, and the development of a prosperous civil society. Furthermore, the capacity of the United Nations needs to be strengthened in order to confront new threats to peace and security, such as organized crime and illicit trafficking in drugs. 22 Austria has always been strongly committed to disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation. We trust that the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) earlier this year will permit and encourage further substantial disarmament measures, in particular the early conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty. We are confident that negotiations on the treaty will be concluded next year and that the decision by one or more of the nuclear Powers to conduct additional nuclear-weapons tests — a decision that continues to cause deep concern in Austria — will not delay the conclusion of the negotiations. In this context, allow me to reiterate the invitation of the Austrian Federal Government to establish the future comprehensive test-ban treaty organization in Vienna, and to express my gratitude for the widespread support this proposal has received and continues to receive. The human rights agenda has for many years been dominated by the quest to establish international standards, culminating in the adoption of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. The recent Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing, strongly reaffirmed the central role of these documents in the struggle for human rights and their special significance in the context of the human rights of women. Today, we have to concentrate on the implementation of these standards. We must take all necessary measures to fulfil our international human rights obligations vis-à-vis our own peoples; we have to take a firm stand against human rights violations, wherever they occur; and we must assist Governments genuinely committed to improving the human rights situation in their countries. The ever-more urgent question of minority rights needs to be an integral part of this agenda. In this context, I should like to mention that Austria and Italy together have arrived at an autonomous solution concerning the Austrian minority in South Tyrol, Italy, which could inspire other minorities and which is continuing to develop in a positive and dynamic way. In order to implement the human rights agenda, we must better integrate the United Nations human rights programmes, under the leadership of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, into the mainstream of United Nations activities. Based on the lessons learned and experiences acquired within the United Nations system, we should further improve the instrument of on-site human rights monitoring. We firmly believe in the need to strengthen the United Nations programme of technical assistance in the field of human rights and the technical cooperation programme in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice. Austria also welcomes the great efforts the United Nations system has made to cope with humanitarian crises. As a country that has received Bosnian refugees — who number approximately one per cent of the total Austrian population — Austria is particularly aware of the human dimensions of the refugee problem. Delivering humanitarian assistance, particularly in the field of major man-made catastrophes, has become an important challenge. The well-being of millions of people, be they in Rwanda, Somalia or Bosnia and Herzegovina, depends on this assistance and the selfless work of many specialized United Nations bodies and agencies, such as the High Commissioner for Refugees, the World Food Programme, UNICEF and the Department for Humanitarian Affairs. Many people owe their very survival to these organizations’ activities. Through its contributions to the European Community Humanitarian Office (ECHO), Austria shares in the support given to multilateral humanitarian programmes by their biggest donor, the European Union. My Government will do its utmost to enhance direct Austrian contributions to United Nations programmes as part of our “burden sharing” in the field of multilateral humanitarian assistance. Adapting the United Nations institutional structures to today’s reality also requires reform of the Security Council. It needs to be enlarged by those Powers whose international influence has increased over the last 50 years. However, any enlargement of the Council must neither compromise its efficiency nor the opportunities of smaller countries to be represented in the Council. In our intensive deliberations about the composition and procedures of the Council, we must not lose sight of its primary function. Security Council resolutions are effective only if they gain political relevance outside this building and if parties to a conflict abide by them. If Security Council resolutions are to facilitate political solutions of international crises, they must reflect the political will of Member States to implement them. Austria welcomes the reform efforts undertaken by the Secretary-General in the area of management of the United Nations. We hope that these initiatives will be further pursued. We are pleased to see that the Office of Internal Oversight Services has become operational. We support the strengthening of this Office in order to further enhance stringent control mechanisms and thus increase 23 Member States’ confidence that the Organization is efficiently managed. Above all, the United Nations has to be an organization in which problem-solving on all issues is closely monitored in an integrated manner. Coordination and cooperation among international organizations such as the United Nations, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) need to be increased. In its fiftieth year, the United Nations is suffering from a chronic financial crisis that needs to be resolved urgently. A comprehensive and thorough reform is necessary. Member States must pay their assessed contributions in full, on time and without conditions. Under the co-chairmanship of Austria, the High-level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations has prepared the ground for agreement on comprehensive reform measures. A solution to the financial crisis will have to be based on the continued recognition of the special responsibility of the Permanent Members of the Security Council, as well as on a scale of assessment reflecting today’s economic realities. In the future, the United Nations system will need additional financing mechanisms for the funding of global priorities. A number of proposals have already been made, including minimal charges on foreign exchange transactions and charges to be levied on international airline travel. The point has been made that all these proposals require in-depth consideration by competent bodies. Austria therefore proposes that the General Assembly should decide on a comprehensive study to be undertaken by various components of the United Nations system in collaboration with outside experts in order to advance the international discussion on charges or taxes pertaining to such international transactions. Negotiations on the crucial issue of reform are under way. Reform is possible only if Member States are truly committed to the Organization, which is and remains the only forum to address global issues. Let us use this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly to commit ourselves to decisive reform in order to make our Organization fit for the challenges of the next century. Our presence here at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly holds a very special meaning. On this occasion, we are not gathered here simply to reenact the annual ritual of exchanging views and official national positions on the principal problems that encumber the international agenda. These first 50 years during which the Organization has carried out its noble task have been marked by successes and disappointments. 23 As President Menem said in this very forum a year ago, the real situation in the world today offers a balance of light and shadow in which encouraging signs of convergence exist alongside other signs that seem to point to the persistence of injustice and disagreement. The search for a delicate balance of peace and security with development and social justice is the goal which we must constantly pursue. This search must be translated into concrete facts which demonstrate on this anniversary, through the actions of each and every Member State, the extent to which we have faithfully respected the spirit and the letter of the Charter. At this historic moment, my country has chosen actively to involve itself in the resolution of serious international crises through the concerted action of the United Nations. The tragic situation in the Balkans has found Argentina present in solidarity, through its troops, in search of a space for dialogue and understanding after five years of blood and fire. Today we are witnessing the rebirth of hope, starting with the recent Geneva agreements and those that were signed yesterday. We hope that the peoples of the new republics of the Balkans can, once and for all, begin life again in peace after such enormous suffering, so much violence and so many unnecessary deaths. The Middle East has suffered the attacks of extremism; yet the peace process initiated in 1993 forges ahead. On behalf of the people and the Government of Argentina, I pay a tribute to the leaders of Israel and the Palestinian people, who, despite provocations and the legitimate grievances of those who suffer, have managed to fix their eyes on the future and continue the task of concluding agreements on each of the points that comprise the complex agenda for peace in the Middle East. We cannot forget our African brothers and sisters, who have been affected by situations in which political struggles and the survival of the least fortunate are combined in a most dramatic fashion. It is precisely in those situations that we must reaffirm our contribution and our solidarity, because we cannot remain indifferent to the suffering and deprivation of so many human beings without neglecting the commitments dictated to us by the Charter and imposed upon us by human solidarity. To the extent of our ability, we maintain our participation in the solution of such problems as those of Western Sahara, Mozambique and Angola, a neighbour country of ours in the South Atlantic with which we will cooperate actively in the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III). The case of Haiti warrants my particular consideration, since it deals with an issue that directly affects our region of Latin America and the Caribbean. Today, I would like to express the Argentine Government’s great pleasure at the successful process that culminated in the adoption of Security Council resolution 940 (1994). Only through that resolution could the Government legitimately elected by the Haitian people be reestablished — a Government which, with moving endurance and commitment, is restoring institutional normalcy and again moving ahead on the road to economic development. Argentina is proud of its character as a Latin American nation. In just a few days, we will have the high honour of hosting the Fifth Ibero-American Summit, at which all the nations of our region, together with their respective mother countries, all linked by a common history and culture, will set an inspiring example of dialogue and cooperation in the search for solutions adapted to our present reality. It is precisely this reality and the prospects we envisage for it that make us look with optimism to a Latin American future based on democracy, peace and integration. The Argentine commitment to peace was recently demonstrated once again through the active exercise of the role mandated to us, together with Brazil, Chile and the United States of America, as guarantors of the 1942 Rio Protocol, in an effort to bring the peoples of Ecuador and Peru together once and for all. Building upon political and economic stability, ambitious mechanisms for integration have been designed that contribute to consolidating the opening of our economies, the transparency of our markets, and the growth of commercial exchange with other regions — in short, the creation of the conditions necessary to secure a better future for our peoples. In our case, we have made the Southern Cone Common Market (Mercosur) a priority in our foreign policy, with the understanding not only that its strengthening will boost our economy and those of its member countries, but also, and most especially, that it is thanks to this open approach that the men and women of our country and our region can come together today in an atmosphere of economic growth after so many years of disillusionment and frustration. 24 In Argentina, we place special emphasis on the following principles: good governance; the struggle against corruption; discipline in fiscal matters; accountability in the management of public finances; respect for human rights; legal equality for foreign investments; and full authority for institutions within the rule of law. These are the principles that form the framework designed to give a greater boost to economic activity as a necessary motor for the well-being of the Argentina people. This framework of recovery and harmony within Latin America, however, raises important issues which remain unresolved. In the South Atlantic, the dispute concerning sovereignty over the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime spaces has not yet been resolved. We will not cite yet again the numerous resolutions in which the General Assembly and the decolonization Committee have categorically and repeatedly stated their position on this matter. Let me simply recall that all of these include a clear and direct appeal to the two countries involved — Argentina and the United Kingdom — to reach a negotiated settlement of this dispute. This appeal from the Assembly remains unheeded, despite the willingness we have constantly shown and the excellent relations that bind our two countries. This makes the issue even more baffling. In spite of this, we maintain a cooperative effort with regard to the exploitation of fishing resources in the area in an attempt to protect the biomass and at the same time ensure that significant economic activity continues. With regard to oil, given the non-renewable character of the resources and the existence of a consolidated international doctrine which proscribes the unilateral exploitation of disputed resources, we are reaching a temporary understanding that allows us to engage in further exploration and exploitation while avoiding the creation of new sources of tension which might discourage initiatives from the private sector. This very morning we and the United Kingdom Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Malcolm Rifkind, signed a joint declaration which will allow us to move forward together in this spirit. With respect to the inhabitants of the islands, I repeat our determination to guarantee total respect for their way of life, their culture, habits and institutions. The dispute over the Malvinas Islands will not disappear as if by magic. The peaceful recovery of the exercise of full sovereignty over all the territories in dispute and the surrounding waters, and respect for the way of life of the islands’ inhabitants, are today part of Argentina’s Constitution, on which there was consensus across the entire political spectrum of my country. Only rational dialogue, without any a priori conditions from either party, will permit us to make progress towards the final implementation of the resolutions of the Assembly and of the Decolonization Committee. At the end of this year Argentina will conclude its term as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. In our two years as a member we have witnessed numerous situations that have required an immediate response on the part of the Council. Responding to these situations has not been an easy task, and at times the serious problems that have given rise to them have failed to receive full attention. Nevertheless, the Council’s response has confirmed on each occasion its character as the central and indispensable instrument for the maintenance of international peace and security. Our commitment to the work of the Council has not been limited to its discussions; it has extended to Argentina’s contribution to peace-keeping operations, the largest in our region. Our presence in the former Yugoslavia, in Cyprus, Mozambique, Haiti and Kuwait — to name but a few operations — is tangible proof of our concrete, and not just rhetorical, contribution to international peace and cooperation. In recent days much has been said about the process of reform of the Security Council. If anything has been proved by the extended deliberations of the ad hoc Open- ended Working Group established for this purpose, it is the extreme difficulty of finding a formula, acceptable to everyone, that does not introduce imbalances into the region. In our delegation’s view, the fundamental task in this respect is to protect and improve the efficiency and expeditiousness of the Council. In order to achieve this, a careful, limited increase in the membership would be in order, should there be the necessary consensus. This increase could be supplemented with a new procedure aimed at achieving a greater representativeness, which, by means of rotation mechanisms, would enable several of the most interested countries of different regions, as well as those which stand to wait many years before joining 25 the Council, to take part more regularly in its deliberations. We believe that those countries which are legitimately interested in taking part in the daily construction of a stable and peaceful world order could fulfil their aspirations in this way. Moreover, further changes in the procedure of the Council should be introduced in order to increase its transparency and strengthen the process of dialogue and exchange of information. Over the past two years we have actively promoted such progress, being convinced that the contribution of the international community to the solution of its crises would be facilitated if all its members had more criteria and information on which to base their decisions. This matter is of undeniable importance, since the Security Council is the body ultimately entrusted with the maintenance of international peace and security. This requires that we proceed with the utmost care, searching relentlessly for consensus. This year has been marked by the positive contribution to international peace made here in New York, when the 179 States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), decided to extend it unconditionally and indefinitely. We are concerned about the ongoing nuclear-test programmes. Therefore, we look forward to the prompt conclusion of the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty, without exceptions or permissible thresholds. Likewise, we hope that the Conference on Disarmament will address without delay the negotiation of a convention banning the production of fissionable material. It is encouraging to note the increased awareness of what the Secretary-General has rightly called the “international humanitarian crisis” of anti-personnel mines. We trust that the 1981 Convention on inhumane weapons will be strengthened as a result of the meeting to be held in Vienna in the next few days.For our part, in addition to supporting the Assembly resolutions on the subject, we have declared a unilateral moratorium on mine production, and with regard to a case which affects us directly — the mines planted by our armed forces on the Malvinas Islands in 1982 — we have offered our cooperation and financial help to the United Kingdom for their removal, which is proceeding with the greatly appreciated cooperation of the United States. Apart from the struggle for the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, new challenges to peace and stability, including international terrorism, have emerged. Today no one can feel safe from the action of groups which are international in structure and very often rely on the active or passive support of certain States. Almost every day gruesome attacks reflect the reality of this new threat, which calls for a determined and unequivocal response by the international community. We have drawn this issue to the attention of the Security Council, and we are confident that as a result urgent action at the national, regional and international levels will be taken to promote legislative harmonization and cooperation in the judicial, police and even intelligence spheres, in order to halt this insidious manifestation of terror. However, the pressing challenges requiring international action are not restricted to the domain of security. Emergency assistance activities and the subsequent stage of rehabilitation for development constitute a priority task for the United Nations. For this reason, in 1994 we proposed the “White Helmets” initiative, which aims to deliver assistance in cases of extreme urgency and to mobilize resources for specific instances of extreme poverty. We are pleased to note that the initiative was adopted by consensus in resolution 49/139 B, with the formidable support of 67 co-sponsors. In the future we will further define details of the initiative, which has already been implemented in very successful pilot projects in our region. We hope to extend this initiative to other parts of the world where even greater need is experienced. From a historical perspective, 50 years may not be many, but they are not insignificant in the life of an international organization that every day has to address numerous and complex issues. Today we find the United Nations committed to the solution of international crises which affect international peace and security, a far cry from the marginalization of the Organization during the cold war. The United Nations is actively involved in advances on great social issues by means of international conferences such as those of Vienna, on human rights; Cairo, on population; Copenhagen, on social matters; and Beijing, on women. These meetings reflect the new and vigorous stage reached by multilateralism, which elicits universally accepted responses to the great currents of sustainable human development, and acts in strict conformity with the provisions of the Charter, under which the promotion of human welfare, development and dignity are harmonious 26 and mutually complementary priorities. We remain actively committed to work to achieve these priorities in the framework of the United Nations, thus renewing the commitment of 1945, towards which the current reform process will make a substantive contribution, with the same faith we had then, nourished by decades of cooperation. The year 1995 is not only the year that marks the half century of the United Nations. Two years ago the General Assembly, in its resolution 48/126, declared 1995 the United Nations Year for Tolerance. It occurs to me that the forefathers of the United Nations must have had the idea of tolerance deeply etched in their minds when they set the foundations of this unique endeavour. International reality reminds us how often we forget tolerance, how often we reject, proscribe or ignore others for what they are, think, say or do, or simply for existing. May this anniversary be a timely occasion to remember the need to reaffirm in our minds, in the education of our children and in our acts, tolerance, and, with it, the culture of peace. Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to the presidency of this fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that under his wise leadership we shall come to a successful conclusion of this historic session. My Spanish colleague, Minister Javier Solana, has already spoken on behalf of the European Union. I fully associate Finland with his statement. Fifty years ago the founders of the United Nations established the maintenance of international peace and security as the primary purpose of their new Organization. They also undertook to take effective collective measures to that end. Fifty years later the condition of the world is dramatically different, but the United Nations is as indispensable now as it was then. Its role under Chapter VII of the Charter continues to be a vital bulwark of world security, but its mission of peace now ranges much wider: the United Nations focuses on prevention of conflicts, it sustains development, it seeks to ensure the human rights and dignity of every individual. The world needs a strong United Nations. Certainly the small, the weak and the underprivileged among us need the United Nations the most. But the United Nations, in turn, needs the full support of all its Member States. It is intolerable that while all of us here will once again reaffirm our faith in the United Nations, the Organization is once more experiencing extreme financial difficulties. In this context I should like to draw the attention of the Assembly to a statement adopted yesterday by the Foreign Ministers of the Nordic countries — Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and Finland — on the financial situation of the United Nations. The text of this statement will be made available later. We all agree that the United Nations needs to streamline its work, set clear priorities and cut out activities that have become obsolete. Yet the main reason for the difficulties is that the majority of the Member States, permanent members of the Security Council among them, do not pay their assessed contributions on time, in full or without conditions. As a consequence, those who pay on time, in full and without conditions — such as Finland — are in fact penalized for their behaviour. It is high time for all Member States to acknowledge that to pay one’s dues is not an option, but an obligation, and that this obligation must be fulfilled, and fulfilled punctually. When payments are not made on time, it is normal to charge interest. This should be done also in the United Nations. It is also clear that the present scale of assessments needs to be revised rapidly to take into account the real capacity to pay of each Member State. Finland is prepared to support adjustments in cases where the pains of transition, natural disasters or other circumstances truly beyond the control of the Government concerned justify such exceptional treatment. On the other hand, upward adjustments should be the rule when economic development justifies them. A strong United Nations needs an effective Security Council, capable of acting on behalf of the entire membership. Finland is pleased that the Security Council has assumed its role under the Charter after the paralysis of the cold-war years. We also welcome the steps the Council has taken to improve its working methods and the transparency of its deliberations. To remain effective in the long run, the Security Council must be representative. There can be no effectiveness without legitimacy. Legitimacy grows from a true reflection of the increase in United Nations membership as well as from a frank recognition of changing realities. Finland therefore supports an increase in Council membership by five to eight new members. 16 The groundwork for the reform of the Council has been laid after two years of intensive debate in the Working Group of the General Assembly. Now it is time to move from discussion to true negotiation between Member States. A strong United Nations does not mean that our Organization should do what we, as Member States, should in the first instance do ourselves. Under the Charter, Member States themselves have an obligation to seek peaceful solutions to disputes and to make every effort to prevent conflicts in advance. The United Nations assists, but cannot replace, the Member States, nor should it be expected to do so. The permanence of, and unfailing respect for, universal norms is the basis of human security, whether in relations between nations or within the nations themselves. The historic decision by the parties to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty to make that Treaty permanent meant that a cornerstone of international security was kept in place and that the prospect of the eventual elimination of nuclear weapons became more attainable. The next step should be the conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear-test- ban treaty by the summer of 1996. The negotiations in Geneva are proceeding well. Under these circumstances, any testing is therefore a cause for concern. Finland has expressed its disapproval of the recent tests by France and China. The breakthrough achieved in the Middle East peace process two years ago will be followed by a new important agreement, to be signed this week. I should like to congratulate the negotiators on their courage and persistence. The international community should continue to support the reconstruction that peace has made possible. Finland is encouraged by the recent turn towards a peaceful solution in the former Yugoslavia. The international community has shown resolve in defending Sarajevo from persistent and cruel attacks on innocent civilians. The international community must show equal resolve once the peace agreement is reached. It must help to maintain peace on the ground and to reconstruct what has been shattered by war. But, above all, it is necessary that all parties to the conflict now finally commit themselves to peace. Some of the lessons from the conflicts in former Yugoslavia and elsewhere are clear. The capacity of the United Nations and the international community to coordinate an international response is still inadequate and not integrated enough, as so many speakers before me have already mentioned here. The United Nations bears the main responsibility to prevent, to react rapidly to and to manage often very complex emergencies. It is the central actor in peace-keeping operations. We must not allow the lack of financial resources and organizational difficulties to stand in the way. A continuum of ideas based on a broad concept of security — from respect for the rule of law and human rights to support for sustainable economic and social development — is already available in the Secretary- General’s twin Agendas for Peace and for Development. It is now for the Member States to put the best of those ideas into practice. Finland, together with its European Union partners, will do its share. True international security begins with the security of the individual, sometimes in relation to his or her own Government. Violations of human rights, including women’s rights, are not justifiable on any grounds. There are no cultural exceptions to universal human rights. The importance of mechanisms for the effective protection of human rights is now widely recognized. This is manifested, inter alia, in the efforts to establish systematic and organized judicial inquiry into, and penalties against, violations of international humanitarian law and human rights. Finland supports the early establishment of a permanent international criminal court. In addition to judicial mechanisms open mainly to States, the question of the right of individuals to rely on international human rights instruments is worthy of serious study and development. The very positive experiences gained during the 45 years that the European Court of Human Rights of the Council of Europe has been functioning illustrate the merits of this approach to human rights. I can speak to that. The Beijing Conference and other recent United Nations Conferences — Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen — need active and integrated follow-up throughout the United Nations system. The platforms are there. They have established beyond doubt that sustainable human development and human security can be realized only through the empowerment of individuals and a strong civic society under law. In the international follow-up of the Beijing Conference, the roles of the General Assembly and of the Economic and Social Council are 17 crucial, not only for the efficient implementation of the Platform for Action, but also for strengthening the Organization in the social and economic fields. At the same time, action at the grass-roots level — not new bureaucratic superstructures — is what is now required. The follow-up to the Rio Conference offers some encouragement. Environmental concerns are now part of mainstream thinking on development. As a major forestry nation, Finland wants in particular to make sure that progress on forest issues is made in a solid and balanced manner and on a global scale. The past five decades have demonstrated to the world that the United Nations is a vital centre for harmonizing actions for the common good. The future will bring new challenges. Let us provide the United Nations with the political support and the financial means that it desperately needs to serve us for the future. It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the high office of President of the General Assembly. Under his able and wise guidance, this historic session should become a milestone in the enhancement of the stature of this universal forum. I should like also to thank his predecessor, His Excellency Amara Essy, for his valuable contribution to the work of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. Half a century ago, the world was witnessing, as we are today, the end of one era and the beginning of a new one. In days fraught with foreboding but also filled with hope, another generation established this Organization. There was ambition in their design and an idealism about how a better world could be achieved. After a war that had brought untold sorrow to humankind, 51 nations joined together for the common purpose of promoting peace, development, equality, justice and human rights. Their aim was to create a collective security system that would save future generations from the scourge of war, but for more than four decades the notion of collective security remained frozen. It was only after the end of the cold war that new hopes emerged for its revival. We live in extraordinary times, times full of stark contrasts. The end of bipolarity freed the international community from political and ideological constraints. Today, a sense of global responsibility is growing. It is being widely recognized that only democracy, the rule of law and a market economy can guide us towards a promising future. Awareness of an era of a global society is spreading — but so are xenophobic and ethnic nationalism, racism and intolerance. Wars of aggression have erupted in different parts of the globe. We have witnessed the cruellest of crimes committed against humanity since the end of the Second World War. Global problems such as environmental degradation, poverty, starvation, terrorism, organized crime, illicit drugs and trafficking in arms require the concerted action of all nations. Today, we are well aware that the international community must address a human community that is profoundly transnational. There is a pressing need for a stronger and more effective role for the United Nations. At its fiftieth anniversary, the United Nations can be proud of its work in fighting underdevelopment, social scourges and illiteracy, illicit drugs and diseases; protecting the environment; eliminating all traces of colonialism and apartheid; combating racism; accelerating the disarmament process; supplying emergency relief to countries and peoples struck by natural disasters and wars; and promoting democracy and universal respect for human rights. Successful as these activities have been, the main responsibility of the United Nations is obviously the maintenance of international peace and security — and it is in this area that set-backs have been more harmful to the United Nations. Regrettably, ongoing conflicts and tragedies have overshadowed the United Nations success story and have damaged its image and credibility. We have to face this reality and take stock of what we have achieved and where we have failed. This is the most opportune time to engage in a self-criticism, to revisit the Charter of the United Nations, to go back to its basic notions. This is also the most opportune time to look ahead with realism and vision, to adapt the United Nations to the new world environment and to make it the real centre of collective security and global solidarity. The United Nations experience shows that we succeeded when we reached a global consensus and we failed when we pursued our narrow individual interests. History will judge us by what we do today. We, the peoples of the United Nations, must address the challenges of our times with the vision of the founders of the United Nations. We must seize this historic 32 opportunity to forge workable and durable mechanisms for effectively responding to the problems that confront us. Together, we have to make our Organization more successful in order to make the world a better place for all humankind to live in, so that children may not regret having been born into this world. When the problems we face transcend national boundaries, international cooperation is the only appropriate and effective response. Facilitating this cooperation is the raison d’être of this Organization. Although not exactly embodied in the Charter, the creation of the concept of peace-keeping and the subsequent activities aimed at its application have added to the efforts towards peace. However, peacemaking and peace enforcement, the really essential tenets of the original vision, have yet to be fulfilled. Let us not forget that the founders of the United Nations intended an organization that would not hesitate to implement international law. To prepare our Organization for the next century, priority attention should be focused on the Security Council, on the tools and mechanisms of collective security and on the concepts of human security and sustainable development. The ongoing efforts for the restructuring of the United Nations in general should be considered and negotiated within this framework and in a far-reaching manner. The central issue before us is the enhancement of the representative character of the Security Council and the democratization of its methods of work. The wide-ranging demands to render the Council more representative, responsive, transparent and accountable should be met. We are strongly in favour of a genuine and comprehensive reform. After two years of deliberations by the Open-ended Working Group, many useful ideas and proposals are now before us that necessitate further reflection. I should like to draw the attention of members to the revised version of our proposal for the enlargement of the Security Council. We believe that a Council with at least 25 members would be more representative and thus be more effective. We also hold the view that the Council should be enlarged by the addition of 10 non-permanent members. Thus the existing ratio of permanent and non-permanent members could be reorganized so that the permanent members were one fifth of the Council instead of one third. These additional seats should rotate among a predetermined list of about 30 to 40 countries. Those countries could be selected within the geographical groups, according to a set of objective criteria, which could change over time. Therefore, the list would be flexible and would be updated after a certain period of time, to adapt to changes. Consequently, a new concept of constituencies in the distribution of seats in the Council would be introduced. In this respect, we believe that the extension of the concept of separate constituencies for the distribution of elective seats is also worth considering. Setting up new constituencies for election could be one of the most appropriate ways to rectify the shortcomings and injustices of the present election system. This idea of electoral reform would enable us to find ways and means within the geographical groups to ensure a fair, equitable and orderly working system of rotation for all the non-permanent seats. I hope that our proposal, along with others along similar lines, will receive careful consideration. In its Chapter VII, the Charter provides the Security Council with important mechanisms for the maintenance of international peace and security. Cognizant of the two pertinent reports of the Secretary-General, namely, “An Agenda for Peace” and “The Supplement to the Agenda for Peace”, I should like to express the views of my Government on these crucial issues. First and foremost, we need to put the concept of preventive diplomacy on the top of our agenda. Indeed, the idea of preventive diplomacy is embodied in the letter and spirit of the Charter. It is the most cost-effective way of conflict prevention. We also believe that the application of certain measures of preventive diplomacy such as fact-finding missions, preventive deployment and early-warning capabilities should be more timely. In recent years, United Nations peace-keeping activities have vastly expanded. As an active participant in these activities, Turkey stands ready to further its assistance to the United Nations. We have also decided to participate in the United Nations stand-by forces. Another idea of the founders which is extremely relevant today is reflected in Chapter VIII of the Charter. The challenges we are facing today exceed the means and resources of the United Nations. In this respect, the regional organizations have much to contribute to the maintenance of peace and security. The need for a new collective security architecture of mutually reinforcing institutions has become more compelling. The cooperation between the United Nations and the regional organizations 33 should be viewed as complementary in nature. On the other hand, given the unique characteristics of each situation and the varied mandates, as well as structures of the regional organizations, we believe that an attempt to establish a universal model for their relationship with the United Nations may be counter-productive. United Nations-imposed sanctions constitute an effective measure for determined action against the violators of international law. Nevertheless, there are serious shortcomings which need to be addressed. In this context, we share the Secretary-General’s views that “Sanctions are a measure taken collectively by the United Nations to maintain or restore international peace and security. The costs involved ... should be borne ... by all Member States and not exclusively by the few who have the misfortune to be neighbours or major economic partners of the target country” (A/50/60, para. 73). In addition to this observation, the lack of efficient consultation mechanisms, as well as secrecy in the decision-making process of the Security Council for the imposition and review of sanctions, are also causing concern to the general membership. We are convinced that transparency in the activities of the Council with respect to sanctions will ensure wider support for their implementation. The aggression and genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina continue to be a historical test-case for the credibility of the United Nations and for the role it could play in shaping the future of the international system. The prestige and moral authority of the United Nations are being challenged. For a long time, the open defiance of international law and the blatant violations of Security Council resolutions remained unchecked. We even witnessed, with deep indignation and sorrow, the fall of United Nations-designated safe areas last July. The aggressor intensified its attacks on other safe areas. The long-awaited appropriate response to the aggressor came only after another marketplace massacre in Sarajevo. The United Nations-North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) joint operation, belated as it may be, has been a very important step in the right direction. The involvement of the rapid reaction force in the operation has also been totally in conformity with the mandate as set out in various Security Council resolutions. Turkey, also a Balkan country, is strongly in favour of a negotiated settlement. However, peace should not have priority over justice. We must never forget that no peace, throughout history, has ever been a lasting one when it was based on rewarding injustice. With these thoughts in mind, and setting out from the Agreed Basic Principles of Geneva and New York, we should like to hope that a just and viable peace can be built on the basis of the multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, multi-religious character of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Hence, we firmly believe that the Bosniac-Croat Federation should set a model for the future of the Union of two entities. We attach the utmost importance to the reference made in the agreed principles to the preservation of the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina within its existing international borders. It is in line with this reasoning that we welcome the steps taken on the road towards peace. We should not lose sight of the fact that determined action and diplomacy backed by force have increased the chances of a real peace process. The conclusion of a negotiated settlement must be followed by the establishment of a peace implementation force. Turkey is ready to undertake responsibilities within this force. The reconstruction and rehabilitation of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the key for the viability of the settlement. Turkey is also determined to take an active part in this process. At this critical juncture, we firmly believe that the international community should remain vigilant until the final settlement is sealed. Turkey has always held the view that the stability of Macedonia is an indispensable requisite for peace and stability in the Balkans. Moreover, we have consistently maintained that the economic sanctions imposed on that country, coupled with the policy intended to isolate it from the international community, were completely unjust and unwarranted. Turkey therefore welcomes the interim accord concluded between Macedonia and Greece on 13 September 1995. We are encouraged by this development, which promises to hold the key to the normalization of relations between these two neighbouring countries. It is not inconceivable that neighbouring countries may have bilateral problems. The same also holds true for Turkey and Greece. And we believe that it is only natural that these problems should be overcome through a meaningful, comprehensive and result-oriented dialogue and mutual goodwill. Such a dialogue will not only serve the best interests of both nations, but will also contribute 34 to a climate of peace, stability and prosperity in our region. We remain ready to address the whole range of issues that stand between us in a constructive manner. As in the Balkans, legality and legitimacy have yet to be restored throughout the Caucasus region. Despite existing differences and ongoing conflicts, we hope that the peoples of this region will display the courage to look ahead. The countries of the region should understand that a just and viable peace has much to offer. Only then will shared prosperity be within reach and only then will democracy and the rule of law take root. That is our vision for this region. But this vision can become a reality only when those who continue to violate international law heed the calls of the Security Council and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), as contained in relevant resolutions and decisions. Injustice and aggression cannot and should not be rewarded. Regrettably, the main obstacle to peace and stability in the region continues to be the occupation of one fifth of Azerbaijani territory by Armenian forces. As a result, more than 1 million Azeris have been displaced. We reiterate our call for the immediate, unconditional and complete withdrawal of the occupying forces. We are determined to contribute to the efforts within the OSCE Minsk Group for a peaceful settlement and for the reversal of the consequences of aggression. In this regard, we look forward to the creation of an OSCE multinational peace-keeping force based on the decisions of the Budapest Summit, a force to which we remain ready to contribute. Turkey also continues to follow developments in Georgia very closely. We hope to see the establishment of peaceful conditions in this friendly and neighbourly country without further delay. We are committed to the peace process in that country. With this in mind, we are actively participating in the work of the United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG). The dramatic situation in Afghanistan, a country with which we have strong historical bonds, deeply worries us. The ongoing fratricidal conflict has added to the sufferings of millions of innocent civilians. We are equally concerned with the ominous possibility that this conflict may acquire a regional dimension. We regret that the earlier efforts of Ambassador Mestiri have been rendered ineffective despite the commitments of all the warring parties. We hope that the recently renewed efforts of Ambassador Mestiri, along with those of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), will pave the way for a viable settlement based on the unity and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. Turkey is located at the crossroads of continents and cultures. The post-cold-war geopolitics of Eurasia have given us a pivotal role in this region. Most of the newly independent States of the Balkans, the Caucasus and Central Asia have historical, cultural, fraternal and linguistic ties with Turkey. With a keen sense of history and moral obligation, we have been striving to exert our share of the efforts needed for the harmonization of civilizations. To this end, as well as to contribute to efforts aimed at preventing the spread of ethnic conflicts and hegemonic tendencies, we have been active in endeavours to develop cooperative regional initiatives. The Black Sea Economic Cooperation and the enlargement of the Economic Cooperation Organization are cases in point. In addition, since the beginning of 1992 we have implemented an economic assistance package in over 50 countries on three continents. As regards the Cyprus issue, we regret that despite the existence of sufficient material for a just and viable solution, as well as for the implementation of the package of confidence-building measures proposed by the United Nations, the negotiating process still appears to be blocked. President Denktas took initiatives to facilitate this process, reaffirmed his commitment to a bicommunal, bizonal federal solution and expressed his readiness to implement the package of confidence-building measures in the manner set out by the Secretary-General. He also proposed other good-will measures and invited the Greek Cypriot leader to the negotiating table. Regrettably, the Greek Cypriot side did not respond to this constructive approach. The Greek Cypriot side continues to reject the implementation of the confidence-building measures and to set preconditions for the resumption of the talks. It is increasingly distancing itself from the negotiating process by shifting the focus to European Union membership with a view to altering the established parameters of a United Nations-sponsored overall settlement. Despite these discouraging developments, we still believe that both sides in the island could find ways and means to reconcile their differences on the basis of the established parameters. To this end, we reiterate our support for the good offices mission of the Secretary-General and continue to encourage a freely negotiated settlement. The momentum gained in the Middle East peace process makes us optimistic that confrontation can be replaced by cooperation. The Israeli-Palestinian and the 35 ensuing Israeli-Jordanian agreements are historic turning points for the installation of a new way of thinking in the region. The road, however, is still full of stumbling blocks. As we all know, there have been violent attempts by extremists on all sides to undermine the peace process. Despite these attempts, it is vitally important that the parties keep to their commitments and continue on their journey of hope. Tomorrow, another historic agreement between Israel and Palestine will be signed in Washington. I hope to attend the signing ceremony. I wish to commend the architects of this interim agreement for their great courage and determination. We fully support this remarkable achievement. For over five years now, the international community has been expecting Iraq to comply fully with the requirements of all the relevant Security Council resolutions. Meanwhile, as reported by the Chairman of the United Nations Special Commission, the recent revelations of the Iraqi authorities on their operational capability to conduct biological warfare have created a credibility problem for Iraq within the Security Council. We hope that Iraq will take definite measures to restore international confidence in its future cooperation with the Commission within the framework of Security Council resolution 687 (1991). Furthermore, the implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995) would, in our view, be a source of relief, albeit limited, for the Iraqi people. Here, I would like to reiterate unreservedly the firm position which we have expressed from this rostrum on many occasions: We attach the utmost importance to the territorial integrity and unity of Iraq. This is vital for peace and stability in the Middle East. I should also like to stress that, in no circumstances, will Turkey allow terrorist activities emanating from northern Iraq. Terrorism poses one of the greatest threats to humanity in our age. It is also a threat to international peace and security. Terrorism violates fundamental human rights, particularly the right to life. It aims to destroy the foundations of civil society. We must join our forces to fight back vigorously. This requires effective international cooperation. Accordingly, the United Nations has a central role to play in our common struggle against terrorism. The General Assembly resolutions on human rights and terrorism — resolutions 48/122 and 49/185 — and on the Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism — resolution 49/60 — are significant milestones which lay the groundwork for our cooperation. We must also introduce a plan of action for their successful implementation. Similarly, the United Nations should continue to play its role in preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction which pose another major threat to humanity. In this vein, preserving the integrity of, and full compliance with, existing arms-control and disarmament instruments at regional and global levels are of primary importance. This year we are celebrating the United Nations Year for Tolerance. The promotion of a culture of tolerance is vital for consolidating democracy and for preventing ethnic conflicts. There is also a growing awareness that development, peace and democracy are interlinked. People-centred development aimed at ensuring universal security based on equality and sustainability is the imperative of our times. In this connection I wish to emphasize the emerging global consensus in support of a common plan of action towards a better world resulting from the major international conferences, which began in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, continued in Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen, New York and Beijing. We know that we still have a long road to travel in reconciling opinions and identifying common solutions. The implementation of the conclusions of these conferences is and should be our priority. The last of these major United Nations conferences, the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), will be held in June 1996 in Istanbul. The fact that more than one billion people are inadequately housed makes the subject of the Conference all the more significant. The City Summit in Istanbul will be a major stage in the assessment of the dimensions of this problem and in searching for viable solutions. Participation at the highest level would contribute greatly to the success of this important Conference. In conclusion, let me repeat my opening call to the international community: we must build on our past to fashion a new vision, a new commitment, a new plan of action for a better world. Our plan of action should embody our best values, our noblest dreams, our most ambitious aspirations. To do less is to surrender to despair. The people of the world should know that genocide is not inevitable. Aggression is not inescapable. Poverty is not unavoidable. But the responsibility falls on all of us. We cannot escape the challenge. We must 36 embrace it and not falter in creating a United Nations that is more responsive to our hopes and expectations, a United Nations that will remain true to the vision of its founders. Allow me at the outset to extend to the President of the General Assembly the warmest congratulations of the Greek Government on his election to the presidency at this historic fiftieth session, which is a well-deserved tribute to his personal qualities and his distinguished international career. I would also like to thank His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy for the highly constructive and efficient manner in which he performed his duties as President of the General Assembly during its forty-ninth session. I wish to take this opportunity to address my sincere congratulations to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who is striving with courage, energy, political will and vision for a new world in which law and ethics will prevail, and for the restructuring of the Organization, so that it may meet the challenges of our time. He has our full support in his efforts to fulfil his mission. Let me also welcome Palau, the new Member that has been admitted to the United Nations this year. Its presence among us is a renewed expression of our Organization’s desire to welcome in its midst all those States that undertake the commitment to adhere to the 20 purposes and principles set out in the United Nations Charter. The Foreign Minister of Spain, in his capacity as President of the Council of the European Union, delivered a statement earlier this week on behalf of the Union and its member States. My Government fully subscribes to the content of that statement and of the memorandum of the Union. I would like, however, to elaborate further on some issues which are of particular interest to my country. This fiftieth session of the General Assembly provides us with an opportunity, not only for an annual exchange of views between the States Members of the United Nations on the state of international affairs, but also for the celebration of a milestone in the life of the Organization. This celebration should not, however, be just a token tribute to the great undertaking of 50 years ago. It is only natural that, on this occasion, Governments should endeavour to analyse the successes and failures of the United Nations over five decades, to ask themselves whether we have come closer to fulfilling, in the practice of international relations, the principles proclaimed in the Charter, and to look to the years ahead in order to try to chart our new priorities in a rapidly changing world. This Organization was brought into being by the vision, the hope and the determination of men and women who experienced at first hand the lethal dangers of nationalism, economic depression, lost freedom and devastating war — men and women who realized the need to create mechanisms that would allow States to embark upon a collective effort in dealing with a wide range of complex international issues. Looking back over the 50 years since the guns of the Second World War fell silent, one notes with satisfaction the valuable work performed by the United Nations as a forum for debate on matters of international concern, and as a centre for harmonizing the activities of States in the economic, social, cultural and humanitarian fields. The United Nations has played a vital role as a framework for the historical process of decolonization, by securing international recognition for the new countries and by helping them improve their economic and social conditions. It has defined human rights for the global community. It has defeated the shameful practice of apartheid. It has provided the basis for an intensive development of international law. It has monitored elections in countries where elections have seldom been held. It has assisted in the drafting of constitutions, and has trained indigenous police forces. It has moved forward consensus on global problems such as disarmament, the environment, the status of women, human rights, development and many other fundamental issues. Furthermore, the specialized agencies of the United Nations system have achieved major successes in their different spheres of activity, and have provided invaluable humanitarian and other assistance in distressed areas of the world. Despite this creditable record, it is the shortcomings of the United Nations that receive the greatest attention. I will certainly not argue that the achievements of those past 50 years yield any ground whatsoever for complacency. However, while disappointment has been frequently expressed at the Organization’s performance, no credible alternative is offered by those who criticize it. Moreover, little regard is given to the innumerable constraints under which it operates, as well as to the fact that it can be only as effective as Governments allow it to be. The United Nations has indeed structural deficiencies, which it urgently needs to overcome. But it is too often a useful scapegoat for the mistakes, the failings and the unfulfilled promises of Member States. The Secretary-General, in his highly acclaimed and very timely report entitled “Supplement to an Agenda for Peace'”, issued earlier this year, has underlined the great problems presented to the United Nations by the new generation of post-cold-war conflicts, for which the Organization was obviously unprepared. He has pointed out that, for instance, in the framework of its peace- keeping activities, the Organization has had, in some cases, to juggle efforts to combine mandates, including the use of force under Chapter VII of the Charter, with the basic principle of neutrality and impartiality of the United Nations and the lack of adequate resources to effectively implement that mandate. In the same context, shortcomings in the unity of command which we have witnessed in the case of some peace-keeping operations have also contributed to undermining the effectiveness of United Nations action. The financial crisis in general has also been particularly debilitating as regards the activities of the Organization in all areas. The Secretary-General has often questioned the credibility of those Member States that support the ends, by actively participating in the decision- making process, but not the means, by failing to pay their assessed contribution. Nobody denies the fact that considerable progress can still be achieved with regard to 21 the effective use of resources that are already available. But unless the necessary financial means are provided, it would be folly to expect miracles from the Organization. Eliminating waste and inefficiency, through better management and accountability, essential though it may be, will never be a substitute for ensuring adequate and regular funding. The increasing resort to, and use, of sanctions regimes has brought to light another series of difficulties which have also undermined the credibility of the United Nations. As the Secretary-General pointed out in his report, the objectives for which specific sanctions regimes were imposed and the criteria for their lifting have not been clearly defined, or have seemed to change over time, as has been the case for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and Iraq. This situation is all the more worrying because experience has proved that the imposition of sanctions results in the infliction of tremendous suffering upon vulnerable groups of the targeted country, rather than in the modification of the behaviour of its Government. Furthermore, the role of those countries that shoulder the main burden of the implementation of the sanctions regimes, despite the considerable collateral damage which they suffer in terms of economic and social costs, needs, at last, to be appropriately acknowledged, for their contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security is, in some cases, no less important than that of troop-contributing countries. It should be clear that if, in the long run, the difficulties of those Member States that have the misfortune to be neighbours of the targeted countries are not dealt with in a satisfactory way, inter alia, through the appropriate implementation of Article 50 of the Charter, then general support for the use of sanctions as an effective instrument will not be easily maintained. Regrettably, one would have to acknowledge that the primary purpose of the United Nations — that of establishing a pattern of world order and international security — has been achieved to a much lesser degree than had been expected, or is indeed required by the growing needs of the international community. The threat and the use of force are still a recurrent feature of international relations, contrary to the expectations raised in 1945. The territorial integrity or the sovereign rights of States are frequently threatened or compromised by the practice of power politics, in contravention of the purposes and principles that govern our Organization. In this context, allow me to observe that a charter is of value in so far as each member that subscribes to it conducts itself in accordance with the commitments it has undertaken of its own free will, without guile or reservations. It is also of paramount importance that the United Nations should not be perceived as resorting to double standards when it comes to military aggression and other blatant violations of international law. The guiding principle of Greek foreign policy is the establishment of good-neighbourly relations with all countries of the region, on the basis of respect for international law, national sovereignty and human rights, and on non-interference in the internal affairs of other States. This principle has always constituted the cornerstone of our foreign policy and applies fully to our relations with neighbouring Turkey. It is the sincere wish of my Government that Greek-Turkish relations be normalized, on the basis of the principles of international law and the relevant international treaties, and in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations, the Helsinki Document and the Charter of Paris for a New Europe. Greece has never raised any claims against Turkey. On the other hand, we have made it absolutely clear that we categorically reject any idea of compromising our sovereign rights, which we are determined to protect by all legitimate means. Unfortunately, Turkey is following a different approach in its policies vis-à-vis our country. To cite just one example, I wish to refer to the resolution adopted on 8 June 1995 by the Turkish National Assembly, authorizing the Turkish Government to use military force in case Greece exercised its legal right to expand its territorial waters to 12 nautical miles, according to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The said resolution was obviously endorsed by the Turkish Government, since it was forwarded to the Secretary- General on 23 June 1995 in a letter addressed to him by the Permanent Representative of Turkey to the United Nations. Turkey is in fact attempting to intimidate Greece into forfeiting a right acknowledged to all signatory parties, by article 3 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, and already exercised by a large number of States. Furthermore, it is beyond any doubt that the above-mentioned resolution constitutes a direct violation of Article 2, paragraph 4, of the Charter of the United Nations, which stipulates that 22 “All Members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State”, as well as of many similar provisions of international treaties and conventions. It is self-evident that an essential improvement of Greek-Turkish relations presupposes a just and lasting solution of the Cyprus question and the re-establishment of international legality in Cyprus. Unfortunately, during the last 21 years, the Turkish forces, defying a series of United Nations resolutions, have occupied a large part of Cyprus, despite the assiduous efforts of the Secretary-General. Their continuing presence has resulted in the division of the island by force, the brutal violation of human rights and freedoms, and the systematic plundering of the island’s cultural and religious heritage. The Greek Government strongly supports the efforts of the Secretary-General with a view to a just and viable solution of the Cyprus problem, on the basis of the relevant Security Council resolutions, including the most recent one, resolution 939 (1994), which calls for a bi-communal and bi-zonal federal State of Cyprus with single sovereignty and international personality and single citizenship, with its independence and territorial integrity safeguarded. The Greek Government believes that the prospect of the accession of Cyprus to the European Union, which was further promoted by concrete actions taken by the Union in the course of 1995, will create conditions that would make it possible to tackle the current deadlock and, thus, assist effectively the Secretary-General’s efforts for the reversal of the unacceptable status quo. One should also bear in mind that no progress towards a settlement is possible as long as the Turkish occupation forces remain on the island. The Greek Government considers the proposal for the total demilitarization of the island, put forward by President Clerides, as most constructive. It also feels that it is imperative that countries which are in a position to back the efforts of the Secretary- General and wish to do so should exert the necessary pressure so that the side which is responsible for the impasse will be forced to abide by international law and United Nations resolutions. The signing of the Interim Accord, on 13 September 1995, in New York, constitutes an important step towards establishing a new era in relations between Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. It also paves the way for bilateral cooperation for their own benefit, as well as for the sake of peace, cooperation, stability and prosperity throughout the Balkans, which has been so affected by the crisis in the former Yugoslavia. We do hope that this preliminary significant step in the relations between the two countries will lead to a definite settlement of the dispute over the name, which constitutes the main difference existing between them and which will be dealt with in the context of further negotiations, in accordance with the conventional commitment of the parties concerned and the relevant Security Council resolutions. Greece attaches great importance to its relations with Albania. For this reason, we constantly follow a policy of good- neighbourliness and cooperation with that country and continue to support, in many ways, its efforts to promote political and economic reforms and thus contribute to the establishment of a modern and democratic society. Greece has been offering substantial economic support to Albania, which has enabled it to face the many difficult problems that arose after the former regime was overthrown. Today, Greek investments in Albania continue to contribute substantially to the country’s economic development and to the strengthening of its social stability. Furthermore, a large Greek minority lives in Albania, contributing positively to the country’s development. Under the previous regime, this minority was subjected to persecution and harsh treatment. Greece is convinced that the Greek minority in Albania constitutes a bridge of friendship between the two countries and helps further their rapprochement and cooperation. For this reason, we believe that the human rights of the members of that minority should be fully respected, so that they are able to stay in their homeland and live there in a safe environment. Moreover, they should be proportionally represented in the administration, the State institutions and the armed forces, and be allowed to exercise their religious and educational rights freely and fully. Unfortunately, notwithstanding some improvements, considerable restrictions continue to apply to the free exercise of these rights, particularly in the field of education. We sincerely hope that the Albanian Government, in conformity also with its international 23 commitments, will secure full respect for the human rights of the Greek minority. During the current year, the tragedy of the former Yugoslavia has continued to unfold relentlessly, imposing tremendous suffering and hardships on the civilian population. Greece, as a country neighbouring the former Yugoslavia, has been directly subjected to the negative consequences of this bloody conflict, as regards both its economy and its security. My country has always advocated that, as has already been pointed out by the presidency of the European Union, a fair and viable solution to the conflict in Bosnia can be found only by political means, and not on the battlefields. This is why from the beginning of the crisis we have spared no effort to ensure that all the parties involved moved in the direction of trying to promote a peaceful settlement, in cooperation with our European partners and Russia, which has played, and is to play, a significant role in this issue. Furthermore, the Greek Government fully supports the current diplomatic initiative and the ongoing negotiating process based on the Contact Group plan. Recently, there have been encouraging developments regarding the future shape of things in the former Yugoslavia. The parties have begun to show signs of rapprochement and willingness to talk. Thus, we warmly welcome the Basic Principles, agreed in Geneva on 8 September 1995, and the Further Basic Principles, agreed three days ago in New York, which are very important steps on the long and difficult road to peace. Much remains to be done, but if the parties display the necessary political will and with the assistance of the international community a comprehensive and viable peaceful settlement should no longer be a fictitious objective, whose attainment would take a very long time. Greece, for its part, is ready to contribute to the fulfilment of this objective through the good relations that it has developed with all the parties involved in the conflict. Furthermore, my country, fully aware of the intricacies of the Balkans and having actively participated in the initiatives for regional economic cooperation, will do its utmost, both on a national basis and in the framework of the European Union, to promote efforts aiming at the reconstruction of the former Yugoslavia. Concerning the situation in the Middle East, Greece considers as a matter of utmost importance the early and unimpeded implementation of the recent Erez and Taba Agreements and the speedy conclusion of the talks on redeployment and elections, together with the solution of the two outstanding problems, namely security for all, and social and economic development. We welcome the signature yesterday in Washington by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) of the interim agreement on the second stage of Palestinian autonomy, which constitutes additional proof of determination and political courage. We congratulate the Israeli Government and Chairman Arafat on their commitment to peace. Greece believes that the international community must exert consistent efforts, in which we are willing to actively participate, aiming at the creation of a solid basis for the political and economic survival of the Palestinian National Authority, thereby providing a source of hope for the Palestinian people. Greece is of the view that the peace process could be substantially promoted if the States of the region directly involved in it joined forces with those actively participating, and we welcome all recent indications to this effect. The peoples of the region should be guaranteed a secure life, within internationally recognized and safe boundaries. We urge the implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978) on Lebanon. Greece, which has actively participated in the Middle East peace process since it began in Madrid, will continue to offer full support and assistance to the bilateral and multilateral negotiations towards a comprehensive, final and just peace. Greece believes that an increase in the number of members of the Security Council has become an imperative necessity. Such an increase, which should be moderate so as not to undermine the effectiveness of the Council’s action, must reflect the current number of States that are Members of the United Nations, the realities of the new international situation and an equitable distribution among all existing regional groups. While recognizing that any formal definition of criteria for new permanent members could not be easily formulated, we consider that new members of this category should be selected from among States that exert a major influence in world affairs and are in a position to make an essential contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security. 24 Greece welcomes the indefinite extension of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the commitment made by the States parties to its universalization and full implementation. We emphasize the importance of strengthening the review process and adopting a set of principles and objectives for non-proliferation and disarmament. We also stress the need to complete without delay comprehensive and verifiable treaties to ban nuclear- weapon tests and to cut off the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive devices. We are deeply concerned at the continued dangers posed by the excessive transfer of conventional arms, and we support putting the United Nations Register fully into effect. Furthermore, the continuing injuries to civilians caused by anti-personnel mines demonstrate the need to strengthen multilateral controls in this regard. Growing economic and social gaps breed violence. The need to bridge the differences between rich and poor, both between nations and within nations, is of the utmost importance for our efforts and opportunities to preserve peace. This fundamental truth was recognized and stressed by the founders of the United Nations and, subsequently, by all members of the Organization, who pledged to “employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples”. In responding to the changing needs of the increasingly interdependent world economy, we have to reinforce the coherence and effectiveness of the competent international institutions and to complete without delay our consideration of the “Agenda for Development”, thus setting out a new impetus to international cooperation in this field and defining the particular contribution expected of the United Nations system. There is an increasing realization worldwide that in major denials of human rights, which breed antagonisms and deep resentments, there lie the seeds of international discord as surely as in the clashes of economic rivalries and territorial ambitions. In this regard, Greece strongly condemns all forms of discrimination and intolerance, and reaffirms its full support for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and his coordinating role throughout the United Nations system, as well as for the strengthening of the Centre for Human Rights. The principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and also those of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, as well as of the other international acts and instruments, should guide the actions of all Member States in this respect on a daily basis. Industrialization and the technological revolution, while bringing benefits to the human race, have also given rise to side effects, namely the problems of the devastation of the natural environment. In this context, the importance of meeting the commitments we made at the 1992 Rio Earth Summit, and the need to review and strengthen them, where appropriate, cannot be overstressed. Strengthening national institutions responsible for environmental management, and supporting international organizations that focus on environmental issues, will be vital in maintaining and increasing the momentum for the protection and the improvement of the environment. Troops and civilian personnel engaged in United Nations peace-keeping and humanitarian activities have been carrying out their most important tasks under conditions of extraordinary personal risk, and very often at the expense of their own lives. I would like to condemn, in the strongest possible terms, the abhorrent and unacceptable harassment of and attacks against United Nations peace-keepers, to whose relentless courage and determination we pay tribute. I should also like to stress the need for measures which will ensure their security, including the early entry into force of the recently adopted Convention for the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. These past 50 years of United Nations existence have been a time of unparalleled human advancement and of the fundamental enlargement of human expectations. As I see it, it will be the principal task of the Organization, which has done so much to give voice to those expectations, to take the lead in bringing them ever closer to realization. Greece, as a small country, has always had a strong vested interest in the strengthening of the common capacity to deal with threats to international peace and security and, in general, in the success of the United Nations. The Greek people will always be supportive of a collective approach to global and regional problems. For my part, I can only reaffirm our resolve to extend our full cooperation to the efforts of the Organization as it strives for the realization of its noble objectives, and our continued dedication to its purposes and principles. It is a sad irony that while we are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the Organization finds itself in serious financial crisis. If not redressed, this crisis will threaten the very goals of our Organization. Denmark gives top priority to a strengthening of the United Nations. Hopefully, we can make headway during this session of the General Assembly as regards the financial situation of the United Nations and the “Agenda for Development”. We hope that the High-level Working Group under the chairmanship of the President of the General Assembly will keep up the momentum of the reform process. I wish to concentrate on eight points. The first is social development. The World Summit in Copenhagen identified new approaches for action. States have the primary responsibility to attain the goals of the Summit. In this endeavour, we need the full support of the international community, the United Nations, the multilateral financial institutions, regional organizations, local authorities and the civil society. All partners must participate fully and must increase their efforts. We also need specific efforts to keep the Summit issues on the agenda. To stimulate the implementation of the Summit results, Denmark would like to see established an independent forum on social development issues. This forum should supplement the work of international organizations and of intergovernmental cooperation. In particular, it should compile and analyze data on social development issues, thus providing the basis for dialogue. I hope that agreement on the creation of the forum can be reached at this session of the General Assembly. Sustainable economic and social development requires a collective effort. It requires a substantial transfer of resources, concessional as well as unconcessional, private as well as public, from the developed world to the developing world. The total volume of assistance to developing countries has declined over the past few years. We must change this sad pattern. A first, necessary step would be for all industrialized countries to live up to the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product (GNP). Three years ago, Denmark reached 1 per cent of GNP. We intend to continue that policy. 19 The need for emergency relief is greater than ever. It is a short-sighted solution to finance emergency relief out of funds set aside for development. We must find additional financing. Improving the condition of women throughout the world is of vital importance. We, the Member States of the United Nations, have the responsibility to implement the Platform for Action adopted at Beijing. This platform must be pursued at all levels. Let us start right now. The second point is the “Agenda for Peace”. The ideas expressed therein on preventive diplomacy and a rapid reaction force must be implemented, followed — after a conflict has ended — by confidence-building and humanitarian measures. Many of these tasks can be carried out by regional organizations. Giving more responsibility to regional organizations would in Europe mean strengthening the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). We have seen an increase in the number and complexity of peace-keeping operations. Successful operations such as those in Namibia, Cambodia and, most recently, Mozambique and El Salvador should not be forgotten. As noted by the Secretary-General, the problems posed by several of today’s conflicts are unprecedented. We must learn to tackle these new problems. United Nations peace-keeping forces have proved to be an invaluable tool. We all have an interest in improving peace-keeping as a unique instrument in international crisis management. We must react strongly against deliberate attacks against United Nations personnel. Such attacks are absolutely unacceptable. I appeal to all Member States to adhere to the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel so that persons committing attacks against United Nations personnel are brought to justice. Denmark attaches great importance to the United Nations stand-by forces arrangement. We were among the first to assign troops. We are currently, together with like- minded countries, exploring practical ways to a further shortening of United Nations reaction time. There is also a clear need for minimum standards as regards troops and equipment. Denmark supports action taken by the United Nations in the field of training. The United Nations must be given the right to set quality standards for troops made available to the Organization. The insufficiency of funds is putting the United Nations into an almost untenable operational situation. We must soon reach consensus on reforming and stabilizing the financial foundation of the Organization. As regards reimbursement for equipment put at the disposal of the Organization, agreement on a new system must be reached during this session of the General Assembly. The third point concerns the former Yugoslavia. More than two thirds of the total number of troops under the United Nations serve in the former Yugoslavia. The international community has made a substantial contribution towards settling the conflict. We have kept negotiations going, sometimes against all odds. We have sustained what may be the most difficult peace-keeping operation the United Nations has ever mounted. We have rendered extensive humanitarian aid. We hope that we are now closer to peace. Still, many obstacles will have to be overcome. The conflict remains a huge challenge to the international community. The basic principles for a settlement in Bosnia agreed upon in Geneva early this month form a good basis for further negotiations. Pressure on all parties for a negotiated settlement must be upheld. Lasting peace can be achieved only through negotiations. Denmark continues to give full support to the international negotiating efforts, including the efforts of the Contact Group. Denmark has provided a substantial number of peace-keepers and given sizeable contributions to alleviate humanitarian suffering. This commitment stands. But it is absolutely unacceptable when United Nations peace-keepers are used as pawns in military confrontations. It is intolerable to see them exposed to surprise actions and direct attacks with loss of life and casualties as the tragic consequence. The international community must be prepared for action to be taken when peace is finally achieved. Denmark stands ready to contribute. The present situation presents a window of opportunity; we must seize the moment. 20 I would like to express my congratulations on the interim agreement between the Greek and the Macedonian Governments and to pay tribute to the untiring efforts of Mr. Cyrus Vance. My fourth point relates to the Middle Fast peace process. The strong determination to reach results manifested itself in the peace treaty signed last autumn between Israel and Jordan and in the latest agreement between Israel and the Palestinian Authority on the second stage of Palestinian autonomy. Unfortunately, we see less progress in relations between Syria and Israel and between Lebanon and Israel. But we welcome the clear political will to engage in efforts that may bring progress. All parties stand to gain if they realize that there is no real alternative to negotiations and to a just and lasting peace for everybody. My fifth point is that there is now hope in the field of disarmament, arms control and confidence-building measures. We see positive trends, in particular the agreement reached on indefinitely extending the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The implementation of this Treaty has also become more effective. The end of East-West confrontation has led to dramatic reductions in nuclear stockpiles. But as long as these weapons exist, the risk of their use remains. Denmark supports the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty no later than 1996. In particular we support the efforts made to negotiate a true zero-yield test ban. At the same time, we deeply deplore the nuclear tests carried out by China and France. We urge all nuclear-weapon States to refrain from further testing. The Conference to review the 1980 Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects is now taking place at Vienna. We need progress at the Conference towards the ultimate goal of the abolition of anti-personnel land mines. The sixth point is that the Security Council needs to be enlarged to reflect the world of today. There must be additional seats for non-permanent members on the principle of equitable geographical representation. Denmark also supports an enlargement of the Security Council with Germany and representatives of the Asian, African and Latin American regions as permanent members. My seventh point relates to human rights. The international protection of human rights must be improved. International cooperation on monitoring respect for human rights must be strengthened. Additional resources to carry out this work must be found. In particular, we must strengthen the Centre for Human Rights and the office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. Denmark will serve as a member of the Commission on Human Rights as from 1 January 1996. Our key priorities as a member of that Commission will include the fight against torture, the furthering of the right to development and the rights of indigenous peoples. The establishment of a permanent forum within the United Nations is a major political aspiration of indigenous peoples around the world. Denmark shares that aspiration. The General Assembly should decide to call a diplomatic conference on the establishment of a permanent International criminal court to try cases of serious international crime. With my final point I wish to draw attention to the statement issued today by the Nordic Foreign Ministers on the financial situation of the United Nations. In that statement the Nordic countries call on all Member States to fulfil their financial obligations towards the United Nations by immediately paying all outstanding contributions. Imagine how much more could be done if the United Nations had its present outstanding contributions — $3.5 billion — at its disposal. It is a paradox that those criticizing the United Nations for a lack of efficiency are often those who do not honour their financial obligations. They are in this way holding the Organization hostage. They continue to criticize the United Nations as if the Organization were not their organization. Denmark sees no alternative to international cooperation to solve global problems. The will of Member States determines the strength of our cooperation. Much more can be done, provided Governments are willing. The United Nations has experienced much turbulence. The United Nations needs renewal. The United Nations needs resources. The United Nations needs commitment. Denmark remains as dedicated to the United Nations today as we were 50 years ago. On behalf of the Government and the people of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, I convey warm congratulations to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election as President of this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that, with his experience and diplomatic skills, he will guide the work of this session to a successful conclusion. I wish to assure him of my delegation’s full support and cooperation. I wish also to express my delegation’s sincere appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, who presided over the work of the forty-ninth session with great distinction. The Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has continued in the discharge of his duties to provide outstanding leadership to this Organization. The Bahamas is particularly grateful to the Secretary-General for his untiring and visionary efforts in pursuit of world peace and security, development and international cooperation. Global changes in recent times have created unprecedented possibilities for both progress and disaster on our planet. Yet we fail to assume the responsibilities that both possibilities demand. We have the machinery for this purpose; we must take it out, overhaul it and make it functional. This requires the review and updating of the institutions and processes of international cooperation. Within the context of the global consensus around the need for such an overhaul, including the adoption of new approaches, our tasks are greatly eased. If we accept the adage that form follows function, we must now determine what it is we are hoping to achieve, and what function we are seeking to serve. The form of the structure for ensuring the effective execution of that function will then naturally emerge. The framers of the Charter were determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. We have managed to do this as far as global war is concerned, but what have we saved these generations for? What is their heritage? What is their future? Is it good enough to save them for the seemingly inevitable lot of chronic poverty, ignorance and disease, for the threat of nuclear annihilation or the consequences of global warming? Is it good enough to save these generations for a life where the security and very existence of the planet on which they live is in jeopardy? Clearly, those responsible for establishing the parameters of action in the past have not produced the result that is not only desirable but necessary to ensure a stable, secure and viable future. The question now is who determines the assignment of responsibility. Is it possible that those countries most directly concerned have abdicated their responsibility, with the result that their fate now resides in the hands of those whose interests are, at best, competing? It is only logical that those who stand to lose and benefit most must assume the lead in establishing the contours of the agenda for the process which will usher in the kind of order that gives coherence to their ideas and vision, and that provides for the attainment of their objectives. This places before developing countries like the Bahamas untold opportunities and challenges. One of the major challenges will be to ensure that our relationship with our global partners is truly one of interdependence, and not masked dependence where the majority of humanity are only subordinate players, citizens of countries marginalized and on the periphery of global change. Genuine interdependence coupled with a true sense of interconnectedness would eliminate the desire for unilateral action. In this context, we are disturbed and disappointed over the decision by two nuclear States to proceed with nuclear tests after the solemn commitments of the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The hope of the international community had been for complete moratoriums on testing until the entry into force of a comprehensive test-ban treaty, envisaged for the end of next year. The Bahamas is especially pleased that United States President Bill Clinton, on 6 August last, unequivocally committed his Government to ending all testing of nuclear weapons, and further committed his Administration to the completion of negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty. Despite the easing of global tensions since the end of the cold war, the maintenance of international peace 20 and security remains a major preoccupation for the United Nations. Religious and territorial disputes have presented the international community with new challenges and with the need to provide appropriate solutions. Of all the regional conflicts in the world today, particular mention should be made of the situation in the former Yugoslavia. In this regard I must express my delegation’s dissatisfaction with the continuation of hostilities in that region. It is the hope of my delegation that the efforts now being undertaken by the parties concerned towards achieving a negotiated solution to end that conflict will meet with success. We also welcome the recent agreement on expansion of Palestinian interim self-rule. This constitutes a major step forward in the Middle East peace process. It is the hope of the Bahamas delegation that during this fiftieth session of the General Assembly every effort will be made to take decisions that will sustain efforts towards the maintenance of global peace and security. It is with a sense of responsibility that the Bahamas assumes a strong stance on the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Haiti. We participated in United Nations efforts to return President Aristide to Haiti. This is a second chance for Haiti. We note that since the return of President Aristide the gross human rights violations have subsided and that the democratic process has now begun with the first and second rounds of elections. Elections, however, are only the beginning. Massive assistance, financial and technical, is what is needed to create the proper institutional and infrastructural framework to facilitate rapid development in Haiti. The Prime Minister of the Bahamas has stated on several occasions, “We in the international community have sold the Haitian people a bill of goods. We have told them that democracy will bring peace, stability, and economic and social development. We must now ensure after- sales services.” Time is of the essence. The people of Haiti must not be allowed to lose hope for the betterment of their condition. We must ensure that we receive the necessary returns on our investment to date. To do so requires a strategy for ensuring that the situation that has given rise to the initial crisis is not allowed to re-emerge. There are now indications that some of the people of Haiti have already begun to lose hope. I was informed only a few hours ago that 216 new refugees were found in the waters of the Bahamas. This brings the number of new refugees who have risked their lives on the sea in the last month to over 1,000. This cannot be allowed to continue. The Government of the Bahamas, together with the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) partners, reiterates its commitment to playing its part in the rehabilitation of Haiti. The changes in the international system have also made States acutely aware that attention must now be paid equally to environmental security. Illustrative of this are the issues of nuclear testing, the transboundary movement of hazardous and radioactive wastes, and natural-disaster preparedness, which are of considerable concern to us in the Caribbean region. Natural disasters have wreaked havoc upon countries and people. The Bahamas extends its sympathy and support to our sister Caribbean States and the United States of America, which have just recently been victims of this phenomenon. The Bahamas is encouraged by the support given by the United Nations system, CARICOM, and other countries, including Japan, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom, for the rehabilitation of the affected countries. A new approach requires a new attitude and a new commitment to enforcing those aspects of the present order which, though potentially effective, have been employed selectively at best. Respect for the rule of law, basic human rights and the dignity of the individual must be rediscovered. There is need for a strong ethical base to ensure integrity and honesty in honouring agreements. This becomes increasingly important in the context of the globalizing effect of trade and communications technology. As commercial barriers are removed, we must ensure that ethnic and cultural barriers are not erected in their place, as these produce intolerance and the concomitant intra-State ethnic, religious and territorial disputes. Equally important to this new approach is a recognition of the revised roles for former leaders and actors in our affairs; traditionally, matters of national and international concern were dealt with at the intergovernmental level. It is now necessary to recognize that individuals and institutions, both public and private, must have an input. Effective management or governance must be inclusive. 21 This realization does not, however, remove the responsibility of Governments to conduct their affairs in a manner that is both democratic and transparent, thereby facilitating accountability. Democratization must mean a guarantee of free participation, where the expressed will of the people is fully reflected in the actions of Governments. Such democratization must not be limited to States, but must spread throughout the international system and its several components. The United Nations, as one of the principal elements of this system, must reflect this democracy in its decision-making bodies, such as the Security Council. The Bahamas has followed the deliberations of the Working Group on the reform of the Security Council with great interest and hopes that the momentum of those deliberations will be maintained, with a view to reaching consensus on the issues at an early date. Once again, the Bahamas wishes to record its support for the entreaties made by the Republic of China on Taiwan to this Organization to examine the merits of establishing an ad hoc committee to analyse comprehensively the current implications and future ramifications of the preclusion of the 21 million people in the Republic of China from contributing to, and availing themselves of, all the benefits derived from membership in the United Nations and its affiliated agencies. The Bahamas also lends its voice to those who encourage dialogue and meaningful confidence-building steps between the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of China on Taiwan. The Government of the Bahamas is committed to good governance and democratic principles, where human rights and dignity are respected, and where strong democratic structures exist, involving every stratum of society. Such a context facilitates the decentralization of decision-making to the communities which will ultimately be affected by them. My Government’s philosophy is based on the following seven tenets: the exercise of honesty and accountability in all public matters; the development and strengthening of the world’s economy, so that all people may aspire to suitable and acceptable living standards, and to meaningful improvement of the quality of their lives; the commitment to providing the private sector with incentives, encouragement and scope for revitalizing and expanding the world’s economy, so as to generate sustainable employment opportunities for all people; the enhancement of educational and training opportunities and the development of suitable recreational facilities, so that young people will be equipped for challenging careers and can lead purposeful lives; the establishment of compassionate social programmes to assist those in society who are in the greatest need; the creation of a physical and social environment as beautiful and as secure as possible, so that all people can enjoy the full beauty and wonder of the world without fear, hindrance or intimidation; and, finally, the development of mutual trust and harmony among the peoples of the world, irrespective of religious, racial, economic or social differences. My Government recognizes the vital role of women in all aspects of this process. It seeks to ensure that they are involved in shaping and moulding their destinies by removing all barriers to their access to policy-making levels of society and to their full involvement in the decision-making process. It is gratifying to note that most of the critical areas of concern identified in the Platform for Action of the recent Fourth World Conference on Women are being adequately addressed in the Bahamas. In fulfilling its responsibilities for shaping this new order outside the Bahamas, my Government will seek to ensure that its national priorities find room on the international agenda and in the organizations assigned to address these matters. We cannot decry the international community for lack of action if we fail to provide the necessary leadership. We extend such an attitude to our commitment to ensuring that the United Nations, which constitutes the best mechanism for addressing such an agenda, operates on a sound financial basis by seeing to it that our contributions are paid in full and on time. We encourage other nations to do likewise. It is a travesty that at a time when this Organization has been assigned such a vital role in the management of international affairs it is on the verge of bankruptcy, with only some 60 countries out of 185 having fully met their financial obligations to date. Responsibility for our future is in our hands. The founding fathers of this Organization provided a solid foundation. Regrettably, the structure erected thereon has proved inadequate for the needs of the “family”. Let us now ensure that in our renovations all concerns are taken into account so that we provide not only shelter but also warmth and security. Mr. President, I should like to say first how pleased France is to see you personally presiding over the work of the General Assembly. Beyond your personal merits, which I acknowledge with pleasure, your election underscores the important contribution to the activities of the Organization of Portugal, a member of the European Union with which France feels particularly close. The United Nations is 50 years old. As the Heads of State and Government of the European Union solemnly emphasized in Cannes last June, the collective work since the Second World War has been considerable. The European Council on that occasion paid tribute to the major contribution of the United Nations to this collective work and gave some examples: decolonization, the maintenance of international peace and security, disarmament, development, humanitarian aid and, of course, the protection of human rights. But the successes of the Organization do not belong solely to history. This year has shown the vitality of the United Nations. In Copenhagen, the social dimension of development, the struggle against exclusion and for productive employment, which are both major challenges for all our societies, are now within the domain of our Organization. In Beijing, the principle of strict equality between men and women and the right of women to decide freely about their lives in all matters have finally been endorsed once and for all as universal values. In New York, the United Nations has begun preparatory work towards the establishment of a world criminal court. This project signals decisive progress for international humanitarian law. In Vienna, at this very moment, a conference on the scourge of inhumane weapons is being held. France is working in particular to eradicate the scourge of the spread of anti-personnel mines. In 1993, it decided upon a unilateral moratorium on the export of these mines. Now the time has come to go one step farther. Accordingly, I wish to confirm that France has decided to adopt a unilateral moratorium on the production of all categories of anti-personnel mines. It is therefore 12 imposing upon itself a ban on the manufacture of such weapons. France also pledges from this point on to destroy gradually its stock of anti-personnel mines. I call on all Member States to join with us and do the same thing. This year has also been marked by the success of the New York Review and Extension Conference of the States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This success was a major step towards disarmament. France proposes that this coming year should be a time for further progress in this domain: disarmament should be our common goal and it should encompass all aspects of disarmament. France calls upon the States that have not yet adhered to this Treaty to do so without further delay. The struggle against the proliferation of nuclear weapons must be universal. I suggest that all the States which have already signed this Treaty multiply concerted efforts to persuade the States which have not yet signed to join them. In addition, it is important to follow through on the new objectives decided by the review Conference of the Non-Proliferation Treaty in May. Among these, the most important is the conclusion, no later than 1996, of the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty now being negotiated in Geneva. The President of the French Republic, Mr. Jacques Chirac, most solemnly reaffirmed on 13 June 1995 France’s determination to achieve this goal and to ensure that the ban is total. France is pleased that other nuclear Powers have in turn made the same commitment. It calls on all nuclear Powers to ensure, together with all the Member States of the Organization, that this pledge is duly confirmed in the text of the future treaty and that the negotiation of the treaty is completed before the autumn of 1996. I take this opportunity to recall the reasons that led France to complete the programme of nuclear tests that was temporarily suspended in 1992. The final series of tests now under way has no other purpose than to enable us to sign the treaty banning nuclear tests definitively. There were some who imagined and others who wished to make believe that we might reconsider such a decision. This will not happen. Once again I repeat, this is a final test series, limited to what is strictly necessary and held under conditions that have been proved to be harmless. It will enable us to adhere as early as possible to the future treaty banning tests definitively. The disarmament effort must of course be directed towards reducing existing stockpiles of nuclear weapons. Substantial progress has been achieved over the past few years with the destruction of a significant number of warheads by the two main Powers. I would recall that France for its part, although it has never contributed to nuclear overarmament, reduced the nuclear warheads it had deployed by 15 per cent between 1991 and 1995. Disarmament, however, does not apply solely to nuclear weapons. With regard to chemical weapons, I call upon all the Member States to ratify, or for those which have not yet done so to adhere to, the 1992 Convention banning chemical weapons. I regret that France is the only permanent member of the Security Council that has ratified this Convention. I hope that the other permanent members will do so in the coming months. We must continue the effort to reduce conventional forces in Europe. France took its full part in the agreement on conventional force reductions in Europe. It proposes that the conference which will be held in May 1996 to examine the implementation of this agreement should focus on compliance by all States with a treaty that is the keystone of security in Europe. This conference should also be the occasion for further progress. There remains the highly sensitive issue of the Convention banning biological weapons. A serious verification system has to be set up. I hope that the working group responsible for this matter in Geneva quickly establishes such a system. My country cannot accept the argument put forward by some that the Organization has failed in its task. We reject the accusations of passivity and helplessness that are sometimes made against it. Nevertheless, we cannot hide the fact that the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary will not be as joyful and as optimistic as we would have liked. The image of the Organization in public opinion is confused, even negative at times. We should try together and with a clear head to identify the reasons for such a situation. I am convinced they have nothing to do with any disaffection with the Organization. Never have the aspirations of our peoples, especially the youth of the world, so matched the objectives of the Charter: peace and disarmament, environmental protection, solidarity with the very poor, aid to those who suffer, the promotion of democracy, of liberty and basic human rights, and the collective struggle against the major scourges of the end of the century, namely drugs, terrorism and AIDS. In the last few years, we have witnessed the emergence of a body of common values on a world scale. These are the values which the United Nations, like France, upholds; they are the values of peace. 13 In Europe we built with our neighbours a Community and then a European Union, and in doing so we turned a page of a history that had so often led us to confrontation with each other. Since 1945 Europe has known a period of unparalleled peace. The European Union is on the verge of being enlarged again. France warmly welcomes the forthcoming membership of its neighbours in Central, Eastern and Mediterranean Europe, and will do everything to make it a great success. In this way, the unity of our continent is gradually being organized. The extension of the boundaries of the European Union does not lead it to close in on itself. Quite the contrary, Europe is opening up to nearby neighbours from the South, as the Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Barcelona will demonstrate. I should like to emphasize the fundamental importance of that Conference. Europe also wants to develop its relations with Asia; in this regard, the first Europe-Asia Summit, scheduled for March 1996, will be a clear illustration. Lastly, Europe is deepening its partnership with Russia as well as enhancing its close ties with the United States and other partners. I would like to insist on the fact that the European Union, under the impetus of the French presidency, has confirmed its privileged relationship with the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries in the context of the Lomé Convention and its special place in North-South relations as the leading donor of development assistance. In all those areas, Europe has set the example. These values of peace are also at work in the Middle East. France welcomes the important results that have already been achieved under the peace process. I am thinking of the Declaration of Principles of 13 September 1993 and the Jordanian-Israeli peace treaty of 26 October 1994. But, above all, I am pleased to see that the principles agreed upon in Oslo have at last borne fruit with the long- awaited initialling of the interim agreement this Sunday. With this, a major turning-point, manifested by the declaration of principles, has been given concrete form. The Israeli-Palestinian peace process is now irreversible. I also hope that the talks between Israel and Syria will soon resume and that negotiations will start between Israel and Lebanon so that a just and lasting peace, in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), be guaranteed throughout the region. As the French President, Mr. Jacques Chirac, stated at the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary at Geneva, the world needs the United Nations. And it knows it, as proved by the increasing number of tasks Member States have entrusted to the Organization. Therefore, today’s doubts have another origin. I see two major causes. First, the United Nations is not shown sufficient respect, probably because of a lack of political will and resources. Secondly, the Organization has yet to demonstrate its ability to reform itself. Let me speak of respect first. One will never be able lay sufficient stress on the devastating effect of the sight of the Blue Berets of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) held hostage last spring, in chains and humiliated in their dignity as men and soldiers. In Somalia, in Rwanda prior to Operation Turquoise, in the former Yugoslavia since the outbreak of the conflict, the soldiers of peace had already found themselves in situations that the United Nations accepted but that no Member State would ever have tolerated. It is not surprising that the image of the Organization has thereby suffered. I want to make myself clear. It is not a matter of questioning the enormous work that has been accomplished by the United Nations peace-keeping forces since the end of the cold war: Namibia, Cambodia, Mozambique, El Salvador and Haiti owe to those forces progress that would have been impossible without the United Nations. In Somalia, the United Nations saved thousands of lives. Its intervention in the countries of the former Yugoslavia made it possible to prevent the war from spreading to Macedonia, to contain and dampen the conflict within central Bosnia and Croatia, and, above all, to ensure the survival of the populations in certain safe areas, in Sarajevo in particular, for three years. However, we have been helpless witnesses to unacceptable suffering, to shameful operations of so-called “ethnic cleansing” and to crimes against humanity, which the international community was unable to prevent and before which it remained passive. These tragic events have shown the dangers of mixing humanitarian and military missions and the risks incurred when the mission conferred by the United Nations is lacking in clarity. The Organization needs to make itself respected when it intervenes in a conflict. Last spring, France proposed to its partners that the time to react had come at last. It suggested a change in attitude and policy, with the formation of a powerfully armed Rapid Reaction Force. We have since begun, in liaison with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), decisive action to lift the siege of Sarajevo. This has 14 enabled the United Nations to recover the respect of all parties. This strengthening of the United Nations capacities for action has no other objective than to place force at the service of law. Only a political solution can truly settle the conflicts brought about by the dissolution of the former Yugoslavia. That is why France, together with its partners in the European Union and within the Contact Group, has taken a clear position in favour of a settlement based on two main principles, namely, respect for international law and the support of the settlement by all the populations concerned. Respect for international law entails a rejection of any solution which, imposed by force, would mean breaking with the founding principles of our Organization. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a recognized State and a Member of the United Nations. Its territorial integrity and sovereignty must be preserved. There is nothing to discuss or negotiate on those two matters. Those who have chosen to break the law and who have committed the crimes of which we are all aware will be held responsible individually. The International Criminal Tribunal, whose creation was proposed by France in 1992, must fully exert its jurisdiction. It is also important that all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be able to assert their specific character through representative entities. Let each entity have direct management of its own affairs and even be able to maintain special relations with States whose populations share the same affinities. All this is legitimate so long as the management of common interests and the exercise of the functions of sovereignty are not brought into question. The agreement on the principles of a settlement proposed to the protagonists in this conflict by the Contact Group at Geneva on 8 September of this year and accepted by their representatives, meets these two criteria. This is why France has welcomed it, approves it and will support it. The agreement and subsequent actions represent an encouraging step, but they are only a first step. The extent of what remains to be done to end the tragedy of Bosnia clearly shows the major role that the United Nations will have to take. In that mission, it can rely on France’s unwavering support. It must also rely on the support of the international community. Peace will be the work of all. The decline in the respect shown the Organization is evident in another domain that also affects its survival, namely, its financing. It is not normal for the Secretary- General of the world’s largest Organization, faced with the threat of imminent bankruptcy, to have fewer avenues of recourse in dealing with his debtors than the smallest of our businesses. It is not acceptable for Member States — and I am not thinking here only of those that are experiencing real economic difficulties — to show such scant respect for the Organization by ignoring the legal obligations they have freely accepted. France would like to see the United Nations stronger and more respected. For this to occur, however, it is also essential that the Organization be reformed and adapted. The Secretary-General has spared no effort to open the way to reform. Under his aegis, significant progress has been made in the management of the Organization. All the debates in these past few years were undertaken at his initiative and have been based on his proposals in the Agenda for Peace and the Agenda for Development. France is awaiting with the greatest interest the Agenda for Democracy, which will complete this triptych in a field in which the United Nations is called on to take the leading role. The Organization has need, more than ever, of its Secretary-General in order to adapt to the demands of the twenty-first century. However, it also requires the political will of its Member States, and this is not sufficiently in evidence. At the opening of this fiftieth session, my wish is a simple one. Let us concentrate on the projects that have already been begun so that they can be completed soon, within the coming year. France will contribute to this, and I should like in this respect to submit a few proposals. One of our main objectives will be to reach an agreement on enlarging the Security Council. Enlargement will be successful only if the Council continues in a lasting way to be representative of the community of nations through a reasonable increase in the number of its members. I should like to reaffirm this today: the Security Council will have to welcome Germany and Japan as permanent members, as well as some major States of the developing world. It would also be desirable, naturally, for the Council simultaneously to be opened to some new non-permanent members. 15 The negotiation on the enlargement of the Security Council now can and should be concluded quickly. Let us wait no longer. It is equally imperative for the discussion on United Nations financing to produce results in the next few months. But we must be honest with ourselves. This negotiation depends in part on the response to the United States’ request for a reduction in its assessed contribution to the budget for peace-keeping operations. I shall not try to disguise France’s genuine doubts as to the legitimacy of this request. None the less, for the higher interests of the Organization, my country is ready to examine this question without any a priori conclusions. It does, however, set certain imperative conditions. The first condition is that any new scale must respect fully the real capacity of Member States to pay. On this point I should like once again to pay tribute to your country, Mr. President. Portugal decided this year, of its own accord, to increase its contribution to the budget for peace-keeping operations. The second condition is that the agreement must make it possible for the Organization to start off again on sound bases. All existing arrears will therefore have to be paid up. The third condition is that automatic sanctions should be applied to those who do not pay appropriately in order to prevent a recurrence of the current crisis. This is the modest price of enabling the United Nations to devote itself less nervously to its two principal missions: peace-keeping and development. Peace-keeping is the domain of the Security Council, the only body empowered to decide on the use of force and to determine the principles and mandate of operations carried out in the interest of international peace and security. We have to learn the lessons of the experiences of recent years. Aside from traditional peace-keeping, the United Nations may find itself obliged, in accordance with the mandate entrusted to it by the Security Council, to resort to force, within the limitations of its means, in order to preserve whatever can be preserved. United Nations military action is often the sole recourse available to the international community. It is therefore essential to increase the efficiency of the United Nations in the service of peace. Among the most pressing matters, I wish to underline the need to set up capacities for rapid intervention, in the framework of the vital process begun two years ago concerning stand-by forces. I wish also to mention the need to improve the command of operations and the interest in a still greater use of preventive diplomacy. I would like to say a few words about a situation that is of grave concern to France and that calls specifically for urgent action in preventive diplomacy on a large scale. I am referring to the situation in the Great Lakes region of Africa. Since the assassination of Burundi’s President, Mr. Ndadaye, and the unprecedented tragedy that struck Rwanda, this entire region has been deeply destabilized. More than 2 million Rwandans and Burundis are living outside their country in terrible conditions, with the difficulties that all this entails for the host countries. The absence of lasting political solutions, the climate of insecurity and fear that is kept alive by all the extremists, the suspicion reigning on all sides, the risk of new tragedies — all this compels us to address together and in depth the fundamental problems in this area, taking into account their extreme complexity and the trauma caused by the genocide that has plunged Rwanda into mourning. France remains convinced that only a comprehensive regional approach that is political in character will make it possible to do this. The principle of a conference on peace, stability and security in the Great Lakes region is now accepted, and we welcome the recent appointment of a Special Representative by the Secretary-General. But time is of the essence. This conference must be carefully prepared, with the active participation of the States most directly involved and interested in its success, and it must lead to the establishment of a stability pact for the African Great Lakes region. There are three elements that I believe to be essential in this respect: first, the adoption of principles for the return of the refugees and for national reconciliation, along with a commitment by States not to tolerate any activity hostile to their neighbours on their territory; secondly, the conclusion of bilateral or multilateral agreements among the States concerned to enshrine these principles and commitments and to give them substance; and, finally, the organization of a follow- up mechanism under the aegis of the Security Council. France holds the conviction that development assistance is the second, or perhaps the first, raison d’être of the United Nations. Here, too, the balance sheet invites reflection. How can we not have questions about the 16 feebleness of results, the persistence of extreme poverty, or at times even famine, these crises that erase all prospects of development and bring indescribable suffering to populations? How can we not have questions about the reduced contributions of the world’s richest countries? These failures have gone onto the record. Now we must act, reform and take the best advantage of the experience we have acquired. The institutions of the United Nations and their network of representatives in the field are strong points. The development agencies have to refocus their activity specifically on their objectives. They have to set real priorities aimed at addressing real needs — in other words, first and foremost the needs of the least developed countries. But it would be shocking if, as I sometimes predict will happen, reform were boosted for the sole purpose of reducing still further the contribution of the richest States in the struggle against human poverty. France, together with its partners in the European Union, hopes to bring about, through An Agenda for Development a mobilization for development on new foundations. The situation is too disturbing to set the interests of the States of the North and South in opposition to each other. We are all bound by a higher duty: the global struggle against poverty. If, before this session comes to a close, we are able to enlarge the Security Council, to place United Nations financing on solid bases, to give the Organization the means to intervene rapidly and effectively to maintain peace and, finally, to modernize the modalities and institutions for development assistance, we will truly have celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, above and beyond all the speech-making, in a fitting manner: by our actions. Allow me finally to mention a project that is particularly dear to me: to re-establish, on the occasion of this anniversary, the universality of our Organization, which is reflected in the diversity of cultures and languages manifested here. Linguistic pluralism is essential. It reflects the right of each Member State to understand the others, but also its duty to make itself understood. A draft resolution on this subject will be submitted to the Assembly; it will deal with the use of languages in the Assembly’s deliberations and in the Secretariat, and I hope it will enshrine the need to retain sufficient resources to ensure the provisions of translation and interpretation services. I am convinced that we will reach a consensus in this regard. Our Organization has deliberately taken its actions for the long term. Recent events may obscure achievements that are nevertheless solid, the results of collective, patient, courageous work. But the gains are there. It is up to each of us to make them known and consolidate them so that the United Nations may continue to fulfil the indispensable role entrusted to it 50 years ago. Allow me to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election as President of the General Assembly. I wish all of us a productive and fruitful session. I also wish to thank His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, President of the Assembly at its forty-ninth session, for his able leadership, and to give due recognition to the Secretary-General for his achievements in restructuring the United Nations on the eve of its golden anniversary — an occasion for remembrance and celebration, but also a time for reflection and appraisal. The Baltic States have participated in the work of the United Nations only since 1991. Nevertheless, during the long years of occupation the United Nations was perceived in Latvia as a unique global international Organization embodying humanity’s ideas about freedom, human rights, sovereign equality and respect for the principles of international law. I shall not join in detracting and criticizing the United Nations, for it is not an entity existing on its own. 12 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting Rather, the effectiveness of the Organization is a function of the political will of its Member States and their resolve to find common ground. In criticizing the United Nations, we should keep in mind the amount of criticism that must be directed against ourselves. It is to be hoped that the end of the cold war has put an end to balance-of-power politics. Still, the situation in the world today evokes historical analogies — about collective security, aggressors and their appeasement. A generation of Latvians still alive remembers the results of appeasement in 1939. It is often stated that today’s leaders must try not to repeat the mistakes of the past. The notion that they have succeeded is belied by the recent establishment of international ad hoc tribunals regarding the territory of the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda and by the pressing need for an international criminal court. Conflict-prevention mechanisms, including preventive diplomacy and preventive deployment, as well as other confidence-building measures, have become increasingly important. The establishment of political dialogue between parties and early action by the international community are a key to heading off potential conflicts. The status of the United Nations as a centre for conflict resolution may be enhanced by promoting the universality of the Organization. We support the statement of the Secretary-General that the process of arms control and disarmament needs to be globalized and that it is vital that all States be engaged in the disarmament process in practice as well as in declared intent. Latvia supported the unconditional and indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We hope that another historic step will be taken next year with the conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty. The dramatic rise in the number and complexity of peace-keeping operations in recent years, as well as the distinctive nature and experience of each operation, requires new approaches to peace-keeping. Humanitarian assistance, human rights and economic and political questions are now integral components of peace-keeping. Experience shows that it is necessary to detach peace-keeping from enforcement action. In Somalia, as well as in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, peace-keepers have been perceived as enemies. In such cases the most suitable solution is for the United Nations to grant clearly defined authority to international organizations or groups of States that have the desire and the capacity to establish peace. Recognizing that each State has a duty to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, Latvia is ready to participate, within the Danish battalion, in bringing peace to the territory of the former Yugoslavia. For the purposes of peace-keeping, the Baltic States have established a Baltic battalion (BALTBAT), which is currently undergoing intensive training in preparation for a future role in peace-keeping missions. I take this opportunity to thank all countries that have supported the establishment and training of BALTBAT — in particular, the United States, the Nordic countries, the United Kingdom and Germany. Latvia strongly supports efforts to strengthen and reform the United Nations system so that it may better serve the peoples of the Earth. It recognizes that it is still too early to clearly perceive the shape of the post-cold- war world, which must be the final determinant of the nature of the necessary reforms. In these circumstances there is a need to view reforms of the United Nations system as a long-term, ongoing process that must protect the stability of the United Nations system at all times. At the same time, there is an opportunity for progress in regard to reforms which can be made without making permanent commitments to new fundamental system structures and procedures. In the light of these general considerations, I should now like to address Security Council reforms and United Nations system financing issues. The operation of the Security Council must continue to become more transparent and open, while preserving the Council’s effectiveness. Its expansion must strengthen the role played by small countries in global decision-making, while respecting equitable geographic distribution and the new geopolitical realities of the post-cold-war era. Since there is general agreement about the need for a modest expansion of the Security Council, the General Assembly could immediately decide to carry it out, if the decision would not force Member States to make permanent commitments on the two controversial issues — the composition of the Council and the use of the veto. Latvia intends to make proposals in this regard to the relevant Working Group of the General Assembly. The current system of financing the activities of the United Nations depends largely on assessed and voluntary 13 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting contributions of Member States. The unprecedented difficulties of financing the recent growth in international activities have exposed the limitations of the current system, in which international activities have to compete for funds against national activities that have stronger constituencies. A recent report, commissioned by the Independent Commission for Population and Quality of Life, on innovative financing mechanisms for internationally agreed programmes, has made a number of recommendations to study and compile information relevant to such mechanisms. Latvia would support a decision by the General Assembly at this fiftieth session to prepare a compilation of information relevant to, and appropriate studies of, innovative financing mechanisms. Innovative financing mechanisms are a matter for the future. Even then, they should not supplant the current system, which, however, needs to be improved. Governments have a long-range interest in strengthening the United Nations by completing the reform of the current, highly inequitable scale of assessments for the regular budget. The reformed scale must obey the equitable principle that Member States with equal average per capita incomes should bear assessments that are broadly at the same per capita level. The current inequitable scale is one cause of the current financial crisis of the United Nations, in that the over-assessed States are responsible for relatively high amounts of outstanding contributions, including arrears from preceding years. This observation is illustrated by the case of the 15 Member States, including Latvia, that were over-assessed by a General Assembly decision, adopted by vote, in 1992. A second decision in 1994 improved the situation somewhat, by initiating a gradual decline in the excessive assessment, which in 1997 will still be two times higher than the assessment based on the principle of capacity- to-pay. While Latvia recognizes and tries to discharge its obligation, derived from the principle of sovereign equality, to pay in full and on time, it also believes that a second component of the principle of sovereign equality — the equal rights of all Member States — is not respected by the present assessment. The resulting over-assessment is a reason that has led, in spite of Latvia’s best efforts under difficult financial conditions and in the face of many pressing social, economic and humanitarian needs, to a build-up of arrears which now threaten the application of Article 19 of the Charter, beginning January 1996. It will force Latvia to seek relief from the General Assembly. In discussing the work of the United Nations in the economic and social sphere, it is useful to do so from the perspective of the individual. Is he or she secure? Has he or she enough food? Does he or she have adequate living conditions and opportunities for developing his or her potential? In the world today, enormous differences in levels of development persist among countries. The United Nations has accomplished a great deal in its work to eradicate poverty and disease and to provide humanitarian relief. It would be possible to further improve this work by improving coordination between relief agencies and programmes and by eliminating redundancies. Relief must address needs; the United Nations has a significant role to play in needs assessment. In the past Member States of the United Nations have met in a number of global forums to highlight the issues surrounding people-centred development. World conferences in Rio de Janeiro, Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen and, most recently, Beijing have drafted platforms for action. Such large gatherings are sometimes criticized as being expensive and resulting in few tangible outputs. Such criticism could be avoided if Member States were to implement their commitments fully. However implementation is greatly constrained by the financial realities of each State. Nevertheless, Latvia has implemented a recommendation of the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights by establishing a national Human Rights Office, which commenced operations earlier this year. The Latvian Human Rights Office is an independent institution for the protection and promotion of human rights. The international community has agreed that human rights are inviolable and are the cornerstone of democratic societies. We intend to continue to implement the recommendations of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, and urge other States to do the same. Further, we believe that the question of the adequate financing of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights must be resolved. The environment is an area that, along with human rights, demands Latvia’s attention during the present 14 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting period of remedying the many consequences of Latvia’s occupation. In this connection, Latvia is making efforts to hold an international conference on disarmament and its relationship to environment and development. Latvia’s development, particularly in the social sector, has been greatly assisted by the work of the Office of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), established in Riga in 1992. The Government of Latvia fully cooperates with and supports the work of UNDP, and is ready to increase the level of this cooperation. Latvia attaches high priority to the economic and social work of the United Nations and understands the obligation of each Member State to contribute to this work. We value and support the efforts to reform the Economic and Social Council and, in the spirit of sustaining and furthering its work, have presented our candidature for membership in the Economic and Social Council for the period 1997-1999. In pondering the future of the United Nations during its fiftieth anniversary, allow me to quote Mr. Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., a former United States representative to the United Nations: “This Organization is created to prevent you from going to hell. It isn’t created to take you to heaven.” Let us remember these words as we look to the future of the United Nations. Let us make the necessary changes to our Organization and, moreover, concentrate our political will so that we may ensure that humanity will always remain firmly anchored between heaven and hell, on the planet Earth. On behalf of the Rwandese people and of my delegation, as well as on my own behalf, allow me to extend to His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral my warm and sincere congratulations on his unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. This choice does credit to his talent and experience as a diplomat and statesman, as well as to his country. I am also pleased to take this opportunity to express our appreciation and admiration to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, whose dedication, competence and commitment during the forty- ninth session of the Assembly do honour to that great diplomat, who embodies the pride of his country and of Africa as a whole. Allow me also, on behalf of the Rwandese Government of National Unity, to thank the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the skill and determination he has shown in discharging his duties, qualities that have scored some notable successes for our Organization and have strengthened its credibility and the esteem in which it is held. 20 Let me take this opportunity to welcome into this concert of nations the Republic of Palau, admitted as the 185th Member of the United Nations. The presence here of its delegation expands the horizons of the Organization and opens one additional door of cooperation for us. For my delegation and myself it is a special privilege to take part in this the fiftieth session, which includes the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. My delegation is pleased, on behalf of the Rwandan people and Government, to be a part of the concert of nations in celebrating this anniversary. The creation of this Organization following the Second World War was aimed at preserving future generations from the scourge of war, genocide and other evils that had afflicted the human race for centuries. The United Nations thus drafted a Charter whose fundamental principles are based on human rights, justice and peace. My delegation wishes to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the founding countries of this indispensable Organization, who took the initiative to create a world institution. From the time of its creation, the United Nations has been an ideal forum for the peace-, justice- and progress-loving peoples of the world. The celebration of its fiftieth anniversary is an opportunity for us to take stock of the road we have travelled, to pause and look at our objectives and to revise our programmes with a view to being better prepared for the future. My delegation is pleased that for half a century the United Nations has spared us world wars, and that it has been an indispensable institution for the promotion and maintenance of peace. As for the developing countries — those of the African continent in particular — during these 50 years the Organization has played an important role in the liberation of many countries from the colonial yoke, and the establishment of numerous United Nations specialized agencies has turned it into an instrument of development in all economic, social, political and cultural spheres. If, thanks to the existence of this worthy Organization, the world has been able to avoid other world wars, it has not succeeded in averting hundreds of conflicts between its Members or in intervening between Member States which, for a number of reasons, have engaged in such conflicts by supporting third countries. Since 1945 wars without exception have shifted from the northern to the southern hemisphere. Following the end of the cold war it has become imperative to reform and restructure the United Nations to enable it to respond to the aspirations of its Members, especially developing countries that receive the least benefit. As for the Security Council, we must ensure equitable geographical representation and increase the numbers of permanent and non-permanent seats. This restructuring must provide Africa with some permanent seats, with all the rights and duties that these entail. This is the continent’s right, not a privilege. The Security Council is in great need of democratization and the introduction of greater transparency, both among its members and vis-à-vis other organs of the United Nations and other States Members of the Organization. My delegation supports the idea of reforming the United Nations in order to achieve greater efficiency and to avoid duplication in the Organization and between it and the specialized agencies. Such reform should be aimed at strengthening certain institutions and, therefore, should not be interpreted as having any other purpose, such as the reduction of Member States’ contributions. I should like to conclude this introduction by recalling once again that justice and development are key elements for the reigning of peace and security in the world. That is the raison d’être of this Organization and the highest desire of the Government and delegation of Rwanda. This is the first time, since the tragedy of the genocide and planned massacres in Rwanda began to afflict our country and people and the world at large, for members of the new Government of National Unity of Rwanda to participate in this debate at the United Nations General Assembly. We know quite well that speaking at the General Assembly is not a simple rite, after which we can just go home. We know that speeches made in this prestigious forum are listened to, analysed and scrutinized, especially because they are opportunities for nations to express the will, aspirations and priorities of their peoples, as well as their positions on international issues of the day; they must go beyond purely national egoisms and contribute to international understanding and solidarity. The crime against humanity committed in Rwanda were crimes not just against the Rwandan people but also against the members of this body, who should give us a few moments to submit some reflections on the first and 21 foremost victim of that crime, which, unfortunately, is my own country, Rwanda. With respect to this tragedy, it is painful for us to have to emphasize the conduct of the United Nations, its failure, on the day it decided to withdraw the 2,500 Blue Helmets who were in Rwanda when the genocide and massacres began, thus abandoning a whole defenceless population and delivering it into the hands of the killers. This was clearly a case of failure to assist a people in danger, a population in peril. A million human lives were lost in these tragic, planned events, as if it had been decided to erase from the map of the world at a single stroke a whole country with a population of that size. It is important to remind the Assembly that this was not at all a civil war in Rwanda. Rather, it involved militias of the former single party and their supporters, military officials of the former Rwandan armed forces and former politicians, who were engaged in a manhunt against innocent, defenceless people — a manhunt against all the Tutsis in the country and all the moderate Hutus, as well as their parents, other relatives, friends and everyone else close to them. In this manhunt the victims were stripped of their right to life. They were forced to pay their own killers for the right to die from a bullet in the head rather than be killed with a machete or forced to dig their own graves, into which they would be thrown alive. The price of a bullet in the head or in the heart ranged from 5,000 Rwandan francs to 30,000 Rwandan francs in the countryside, and from 50,000 Rwandan francs to 1 million Rwandan francs or more in the cities. When the armed forces of the Rwandan Patriotic Front and the democratic forces of change had achieved a military and political victory against these Nazis of Africa, the United Nations, at the request of the Government of National Unity — formed by the groups I have mentioned — created the International Tribunal for Rwanda and entrusted it with the trial of those guilty of the massacres and genocide in the country. Perhaps this is the appropriate time for the United Nations to restore respect for it by a people still suffering the abandonment to which it fell victim in April 1994. That people looks to the United Nations, which did not protect it from genocide and massacre, to prove itself capable this time of trying and sentencing those whom it could not or would not stop from killing. The United Nations cannot afford the luxury of yet another failure in Rwanda. President Arap Moi of Kenya has announced that he will not cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda. That could be a precedent if we are not careful. The President of Kenya as well as the United Nations should take care to measure the degree of poison that the President of Kenya is calmly distilling in the subregion of the Great Lakes by announcing publicly that if the investigators of the International Tribunal for Rwanda dare to set foot in Kenya seeking persons who committed the genocide in Rwanda they would be imprisoned by the Government of Kenya. We fear that this could be the beginning of the failure of the United Nations and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda in bringing to justice the commanders, the planners and those who carried out the genocide and massacres last year in Rwanda. Thus, we await a decision from the Security Council on what it intends to do with respect to the refusal by Kenya to cooperate with the pursuit of persons who have committed genocide who are taking shelter in Kenya, and others who may follow them on the basis of the assurances offered by the President of Kenya in defiance of Security Council resolution 978 (1995) in this respect. The Government of National Unity of the Republic of Rwanda, wishing to promote peace and security in Rwanda and the subregion, decided when it took office on 19 July 1994 to make the repatriation of refugees its highest priority. We must recall here that the recent Rwandan refugees are not the first ones. They date from 1959 and the bloody events of 1961, 1963, 1965, 1967, 1972, 1973 and 1990. The number of refugees has steadily increased and has now reached the figure of more than 1 million. The international community remained silent about the repeated refusal by the former President of Rwanda to allow these people to return home; he proclaimed that the country was overcrowded and was too small, that there was no room for anyone else, and that the more than 1 million Rwandan refugees would have to remain forever in exile where they had found refuge for more than 30 years. For the new Government of National Unity of Rwanda — unlike the Governments that preceded it — the repatriation of refugees is part of the process of rehabilitating the human capital that is so much needed by our Government, which has decided to make human beings the focus of its concerns, for it is the people of a country who are the most important source of its wealth, and its greatest asset. It is the population that produces, and it must therefore be taught and re-taught the positive 22 values of tolerance and respect for life and justice — in this case, respect for security, health, and social and socio- professional well-being. Rwanda, a non-permanent member of the Security Council has always shouldered its responsibilities in the promotion of peace and security in the world — in Bosnia, Somalia, Liberia, Angola, Chechnya and everywhere that armed conflicts have broken out. Faithful to those principles the Rwandan Government supports any initiative likely to create room for peace anywhere in the world, especially in our subregion. Thus we were present at the Conference in Brazzaville, Congo; the Conference in Nairobi, Kenya, in January 1995; and the Bujumbura Conference in February 1995. The Rwandan Government requests that the conclusions of the Nairobi and Bujumbura Conferences be implemented in order to ensure the rapid repatriation of Rwandan refugees before considering any additional conferences are held. We find it difficult to see what the purpose or goal of such additional conferences would be. As I had occasion to say at the beginning of my statement, to make a speech at this prestigious rostrum of the United Nations is for any nation an opportunity to express its views and the way it envisages the future of its people and the world in the light of the experience of the past. That is especially the case on this fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, which is a time to take stock not only for the Organization itself but also for the nations that are its Members. Rwanda, for as long as it has existed as a country and nation, has been living in a state of constant imbalance that has inflicted on it a whole series of frustrations: the imbalances of the monarchic period, when all Tutsis were forcibly assimilated into the ruling clan; the imbalances of a badly managed colonial era, which engendered its innate frustrations; and the imbalances of the post-independence period, which also created its own frustrations, conflicts and power struggles in the neocolonial world. All these imbalances and the resulting frustrations led Rwanda directly into the large-scale massacres and genocide that took place from April to July 1994. At present, under the leadership since 19 July 1994 of the Government of National Unity which emerged from political formations that had fought against the Fascist ideology of the former single party and its supporters, Rwanda has left the orbit of constant imbalance, the source of the majority of the ills of which it had been the victim up to that time. Today Rwanda is in what I would call a time of restored balance, in which all progressive people in Rwanda have decided to work together hand in hand, going beyond any ethnic and regional divisions for the sake of the survival of the Rwandan people and nation as a whole. This time of restored balance is a precious moment in the history of Rwanda, in our history, and we wish to assure the Assembly of this. The Rwandan people and Government call upon the United Nations and the entire international community present here to continue to lend their moral, political, material and financial support to the Rwandan Republic and people during the fragile and delicate period of this restored balance. For a country that has so long lived in a virtually permanent state of imbalance, this moment of restored balance is a great and precious moment. It is like a child which has just been born and which one must look after very carefully lest it slip out of one’s grasp. Help us, then, to preserve this precious moment of restored equilibrium, for the sake of the future of the Rwandan nation and all the people of Rwanda. In this respect, we urge journalists and political analysts throughout the world to support the efforts towards unity and national reconciliation of the Rwandan people, which have regained their identity. We ask those journalists and political analysts to abandon the simplistic terms and ideas of the past, to which they have had the habit of resorting whenever they have spoken about Africa and the peoples of Africa, of Rwanda in particular. We beg them to leave the pre-established corridors, not to remain prisoners of these often simplistic terms and ideas of the past, and not to view everything in Rwanda in terms of ethnic dichotomies. Complexity, pure and simple, exists in Rwanda. We must understand it in order to better understand a people which has today regained its identity and its balance and is united in favour of true, lasting national reconciliation, one that is not sensational or superficial, which, rather, seeks to take deep roots. The Rwandan Government is determined to spare no effort to establish all the necessary conditions for the resumption of economic activities, the deep-going national reconciliation we mentioned a moment ago and the democratization process. In addition to determination, it needs human, material and financial resources to carry out its immense programme of national reconciliation, reconstruction and rehabilitation. This is why the Government and the people of Rwanda need understanding and assistance from the African community and the international community — so that a Rwandan nation can be built on an unshakable foundation and the 23 Rwandan people can enjoy a genuine national reconciliation. My country, Rwanda, is concerned about numerous problems, both political and socio-economic, of the Great Lakes subregion. In this connection, the idea of holding a regional conference on peace and stability in the Great Lakes region has recently been put forward. However, as we have made clear on other occasions, no one has so far been able to explain what would be original about such a conference, especially with regard to how its substance would differ from that of the conferences on the same subject held in Nairobi in January 1995 and in Bujumbura in February of the same year. Rwanda considers that for the sake of credibility and efficiency, all the measures deemed appropriate in Nairobi and Bujumbura should first be put to the test, and the necessary conclusions drawn, before envisaging other strategies. In political and security matters, the unrest and insecurity caused by the rearmament of militias and the former Rwandan armed forces constitute a threat to peace in the subregion. In this connection, the Rwanda Government welcomes the establishment of an international commission assigned to investigate the illegal arms traffic intended to destabilize Rwanda and its neighbouring countries. In the economic area, the Rwandan Government belongs to subregional and regional groupings whose aim is to integrate the States of the African Great Lakes region. My Government is determined to direct its efforts towards regional economic unity so that the States of the subregion can enjoy peaceful understanding and fruitful cooperation. Regarding Africa, my Government welcomes the reconciliation efforts of the brotherly people of Angola. My delegation hopes that, for the well-being of its peoples, that country will achieve a lasting peace. The Rwandan delegation welcomes the fact that the parties concerned recently reached an accord on several important questions and adopted an accelerated time-table for the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol with a view to putting a definitive stop to the war and achieving national reconciliation in Angola. We also welcome the political success recorded by the people of Mozambique for reconciliation and democracy. In the same spirit, we urge our Somali brothers to resume dialogue in order to rebuild their nation for the benefit of the country’s population, which has suffered so much. My Government welcomes the dialogue initiated between brothers in Liberia, who yesterday were enemies, with a view to bringing definitive peace to Liberia. In this connection, the official installation of the Council of State on 1 September 1995 makes it possible to hope that the peace process has begun anew. We urge the international community to do its part in helping that war-torn country. In the Middle East, the peace process initiated with the Israeli-Palestinian accord of 28 September 1995 is encouraging. We also support the peace process under way in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In conclusion, my delegation hopes that on entering the twenty-first century the United Nations will be well adapted to the challenges of tomorrow’s world. Rwanda, for its part, assures the Organization that it will do all it can to establish peace within its borders and preserve peace throughout the world. That is our mission. It is a privilege to speak to the General Assembly today on behalf of the United States. A half-century ago the General Assembly first met here in New York, across the river in a converted skating rink at Flushing Meadows. In those modest surroundings our predecessors began to put in place an ambitious framework that they hoped would keep the peace as successfully as they had prosecuted the war. In the years since, the United Nations has helped bring peace, prosperity and hope to countless people around the world. Technological change has brought nations closer together than the founders of the United 9 Nations could possibly have foreseen. The United Nations itself has been challenged in unforeseen ways. It has had to manage complex humanitarian emergencies, from civil wars to mass movements of refugees to health epidemics. This evolution has placed great strains on the Organization and has revealed the necessity for far-reaching changes in how it is run. The Clinton Administration has vigorously made the case to our Congress and our people for continued American leadership at the United Nations. The United States made a commitment to the United Nations Charter 50 years ago, and we are determined to keep our commitment, including our financial obligations. We will always remember that for millions of people around the world, the United Nations is far from a faceless institution. It is, as Harry Truman once said, “a case of food, a box of school books; it is a doctor who vaccinates children; it is an expert who shows people how to raise more rice and more wheat.” To millions more around the world, it is the difference between peace and war. Economic and social development, as well as the protection of human rights, remain central to the United Nations mission. But the United Nations must change to meet new needs more effectively. When money is wasted in New York, Geneva or Vienna, when time is lost in bureaucratic inertia, the people who pay the price are those most vulnerable to famine, disease and violence. It is time to recognize that the United Nations must direct its limited resources to the world’s highest priorities, focusing on the tasks that it performs the best. The United Nations bureaucracy should be smaller, with a clear organizational structure and sharp lines of responsibility. Each programme must be held to a single simple standard: it must make a tangible contribution to the freedom, security and well-being of real people in the real world. In the last year, under the leadership of Secretary- General Boutros-Ghali, the groundwork for substantial change has been laid. The United Nations has an office with the functions of an inspector general and a mandate to crack down on waste and fraud. Under-Secretary-General Joe Connor has embarked on an aggressive campaign to improve the United Nations management culture, and we fully support his good work. The United Nations Secretariat has moved in the right direction by submitting a budget that begins to restrain spending, and now this momentum for reform must accelerate. Let me propose a brief, concrete agenda for reform. First, we must end United Nations programmes that have achieved their purpose, and we must consolidate programmes that overlap, especially in the economic and social agencies. The United Nations has more than a dozen organizations responsible for development, emergency response and statistical reporting. We should consider establishing a single agency for each of these functions. We should downsize the United Nations regional economic commissions. We should ensure that the functions of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development do not duplicate those of the new World Trade Organization (WTO), and we should adopt a moratorium on big United Nations conferences once the present series is completed, concentrating instead on meeting the commitments of those conferences that we have already held. Secondly, we need to streamline the United Nations Secretariat to make it more efficient, accountable and transparent. Each part of the United Nations system should be subject to the scrutiny of an inspector general. The United Nations must not tolerate ethical or financial abuses, and its managers should be appointed and promoted on the basis of merit. Thirdly, we should rigorously scrutinize proposals for new and extended peace-keeping missions, and we should improve the United Nations ability to respond rapidly when new missions are approved. We must agree on an equitable scale of peace-keeping assessments that reflects fully today’s economic realities. And we should have a unified budget for peace-keeping operations. Finally, we must maintain the effectiveness of the Security Council. Germany and Japan should become permanent members, and we should ensure that all the world’s regions are fairly represented, without making the Council too large and unwieldy. We welcome the formation of the high-level group on reform, initiated under the leadership of the outgoing President of the General Assembly, Mr. Essy. Our goal must be that of a practical blueprint for United Nations reform and to ensure that it is adopted before the General Assembly finishes the work of its fiftieth session next fall. The way forward is clear; we have already seen and 10 studied countless studies and reports. Now the time has come to act on the best proposals. As the Assembly knows, in my country there have been serious efforts to curtail our support for the United Nations. The President and I, and our entire Administration, believe it would be reckless to turn away from an Organization that helps mobilize the support of other nations for goals that are consistent with American and global interests. But to sustain support for the United Nations among the American people and among the people of other nations, it is not enough that we defend the institution. The best argument against retreat is further reform. Tangible progress in that direction will help us win the battle for United Nations support that we are waging in the United States. The United Nations must emerge from the reform process better able to meet its fundamental goals, including the preservation of peace and security. From Korea to the Persian Gulf to Haiti, the United Nations has provided a mandate to its Members as they carried out their responsibilities. The United Nations own Blue Helmets have helped nations create the basic conditions of peace in some of the most difficult situations imaginable around the world, even though they have not always achieved their intended purpose. Recently, a young Haitian father was asked what the peace-keeping forces had achieved in his country. He answered, “We walk freely. We sleep quietly. There are no men who come for us in the night.” In Haiti, as, for example, in Cambodia, Mozambique and El Salvador, the United Nations has shown that peace-keeping, despite its limitations, has been an enormously useful instrument. One region where United Nations forces and the international community have played a critical role is the Middle East. Another historic milestone will be marked this Thursday, in Washington, when Israel and the Palestinians sign their agreement to implement phase two of the Declaration of Principles. That agreement will bring to life a goal first set many years ago in the Camp David accords: to protect Israel’s security and to give Palestinians throughout the West Bank control over their daily lives. The international community and the United Nations must continue to support this process, both diplomatically and economically. There is no question that the United Nations has never undertaken a mission more difficult than the one in the former Yugoslavia. The limitations of that mission are all too well known, but we all must recognize that it has provided relief for hundreds of thousands of people and has saved literally thousands of lives. Today, diplomacy backed by force has given the United States and the international community an opportunity to move forward on a track that is producing genuinely hopeful results. The United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) are working effectively together to try to bring peace to the region. On 8 September in Geneva, the parties to the conflict accepted the fundamental goal that the Security Council has often expressed: the continuation of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a single State within its internationally recognized borders. I will be meeting with the Foreign Ministers of Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia later today, and at that time I will urge them — implore them — to maintain the momentum towards peace and to establish constitutional structures for Bosnia. The framers of the Charter of the United Nations created this institution to meet threats to peace and security posed by aggression and armed conflict. Those threats are still, unfortunately, very much with us. But today, the world also faces a new set of security challenges, including proliferation, terrorism, international crime and narcotics, as well as the far-reaching consequences of damage to the environment. These have assumed a new and dangerous scope in a more interdependent world. As President Clinton said in San Francisco in June, the “new forces of integration carry within them the seeds of disintegration and destruction”. While, as I said earlier, new technologies have brought us closer together, they also have made it easier for terrorists, drug dealers and other international criminals to acquire weapons of mass destruction, to set up cocaine cartels and to hide their ill-gotten gains. The collapse of communism has shattered dictatorships, to be sure, but it has also left the political and legal institutions of newly liberated nations even more vulnerable to those who seek to subvert them. Although these threats are sometimes sponsored by States, they increasingly follow no flag. Each of us must vigorously fight these enemies on our own, but we will never be truly secure until we effectively fight them together. That is the new security challenge for the global 11 community, and it must be the new security mission for the United Nations. There is no single area in which the United Nations can make a more significant contribution than in that of non-proliferation. Fifty years ago, the United States was the only country capable of making a nuclear bomb. Today many countries have the technology that would enable them to turn a fist-sized chunk of plutonium into a bomb as small as a suitcase. That is one reason why more than 170 nations agreed, at a conference held here last May and effectively chaired by Ambassador Dhanapala, to extend for all time the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. That is an achievement we must rejoice in but also build on. I should like to outline some steps in the field of non-proliferation. First, we should have a comprehensive test-ban treaty ready for signature by the time we meet here next September. As President Clinton announced last month, the United States is committed to a true zero-yield test ban. We urge other nations to join us in that commitment. Secondly, we should immediately start negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty. Those who have been most vocal in calling for nuclear disarmament should recognize that it is essential to ban future production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. Thirdly, we should push forward with the historic reductions of the nuclear arsenals of the United States and countries of the former Soviet Union. I call on the United States Senate, as well as on the Russian Duma, to approve the treaty on further reduction and limitation of strategic offensive arms (START II) so that we can lock in deep cuts in our strategic nuclear arsenals. In addition, Presidents Clinton and Yeltsin are working together to ensure the safety, transparency and irreversibility of nuclear-arms reductions. As part of this process, President Yeltsin will host a nuclear safety and security summit in Moscow next spring. This summit should have a very ambitious agenda, including a declaration of principles on nuclear safety. We look to this summit to address the worldwide problems of nuclear-waste management, including those of ocean dumping. The summit should also promote a plan of action to safeguard nuclear materials, a plan that should include new measures to prevent criminals and terrorists from acquiring nuclear materials for use in weapons. Finally, we should push for the earliest possible entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention. President Clinton has urged the United States Senate to act promptly on its ratification, and to stop holding the START II Treaty and the Chemical Weapons Convention hostage to unrelated issues. The world has witnessed the effects of poison gas too many times in this century — on European battlefields during the First World War, in Ethiopia and Manchuria during the 1930s, and against Iranian soldiers and innocent Kurdish civilians in the 1980s. The Chemical Weapons Convention will make every nation safer, and we need it now. The United Nations is also playing an invaluable role in focusing attention on pressing regional proliferation problems. In Iraq, the United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) and its Chairman, Rolf Ekeus, continue to uncover horrific details about Saddam Hussein’s weapons of mass destruction. Under Saddam Hussein, Iraq developed a deadly biological-weapons capacity hidden from view. It was conducting research to turn some of the most toxic substances known to man into weapons of war. We know that Saddam succeeded in putting anthrax and botulism in bombs and missile warheads. In December 1990, he deployed these weapons, with every intention of using them against the international coalition and innocent civilians. He was dissuaded from doing so only by the steadfast determination of the United States and the international community. In the light of what Ambassador Ekeus has uncovered in Iraq, we can conclude only that for the last four and a half years, Saddam Hussein has lied about the full scope of Iraq’s weapons programmes. There should be no easing of the sanctions regime against Iraq until its Government complies with all the demands of the Security Council and clearly demonstrates that it has changed its ways. The United Nations should also promote responsibility and restraint in the transfer of conventional weapons. At last year’s session of the General Assembly, President Clinton proposed, and the Assembly approved, the eventual elimination of anti-personnel mines. On my recent trip to Cambodia, I saw the terrible damage these hidden killers can do. This year, we will again call on other countries to join us in putting an end to the export of land-mines. 12 Two years ago, President Clinton called on the international community to devise a true international system governing the transfer of conventional weapons and sensitive dual-use technologies. I am pleased that the Russian Federation has joined with the United States and 26 other countries to agree on a common principle to control the build-up of dangerous conventional arms. We hope to activate this global regime, which is called the New Forum, by the end of this year. The proliferation of weapons worldwide has added a disturbing dimension to another threat we all face: the threat of international terrorism. Indeed, this year’s sarin gas attack in Tokyo is a grim warning of what can happen when terrorists acquire weapons of mass destruction. More nations are joining the fight against those individuals and groups that attack civilians for political ends. The United Nations has supported this effort in important ways. The Security Council recognized the importance of countering State-sponsored terrorism by imposing sanctions against Libya for the bombing of Pan Am 103 and UTA 772. Terrorists must be treated as criminals and there must be no place where they can hide from the consequences of their acts. States that sponsor terrorists should feel the full weight of sanctions that can be imposed by the international community. Let us not deceive ourselves: every dollar that goes into the Government coffers of a State-sponsor of terrorism such as Iran helps pay for a terrorist’s bullets or bombs. Iran’s role as the foremost State-sponsor of terrorism makes its secret quest for weapons of mass destruction even more alarming. We must stand together to prevent Iran from acquiring such threatening capabilities. The United States has taken a leading role in meeting the international terrorist threat. We have intensified our sanctions against Iran. Last January President Clinton issued an Executive Order prohibiting financial transactions with terrorist groups and individuals that threaten the Middle East peace process. We are urging our Congress to tighten our immigration and criminal laws to keep terrorists on the run or put them behind bars. The United States strongly supports the counter- terrorism measures the G-7 and Russia announced at the Halifax Summit, and we expect the G-8 Ministerial Meeting on Terrorism in Ottawa to produce a concrete-action plan to implement these measures that were adopted at the Halifax Summit. Other kinds of international crime also threaten the safety of our citizens and the fabric of our societies. And globalization brings new and frightening dimensions to crime. The threat of crime is a particular menace to young democracies. It weakens confidence in institutions, preys on the most vulnerable in our societies and undermines free-market reform. Of course, every country must take its own measures to combat these criminal threats. The Administration that I represent is now completing a review of our approach to transnational crime, a review that will lead to a stronger, more coordinated attack on this problem. To help other States deal with criminal threats, the United States and Hungary have created the International Law Enforcement Academy in Budapest to train police officers and law-enforcement officials from Central Europe and the States of the former Soviet Union. We are providing similar help bilaterally, and through the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, to those countries whose laws are challenged by international drug cartels. A particularly insidious form of crime and corruption is money-laundering. All nations should work together to implement the recommendations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to attack this insidious money-laundering. The nations of this hemisphere should also advance the anti-money- laundering initiative introduced at last December’s Summit of the Americas. Together, we must work to squeeze the dirty money out of the global financial system. Through the United Nations conventions on drugs and crime the international community has set strong standards that we must now act to enforce. We call on Member States which have not already joined the 1988 drug Convention to do so promptly, and we call on those countries which have approved the Convention to move quickly to implement its important provisions. We are also increasingly aware that damage to the environment and unsustainable population growth threaten the security of our nations and the well-being of our peoples. Their harmful effects are evident in famines, infant mortality rates, refugee crises, and ozone depletion. In places like Rwanda and Somalia, for example, they contribute to civil wars and emergencies that can be resolved only by extremely costly international intervention. We must carry out the commitments we 13 made last year at the Cairo Conference, as well as the important commitments made at the Rio Conference three years ago. Never have our problems around the world been more complex. It has never been more evident that these problems affect all nations, developed and developing alike. Only by working together can we effectively deal with the new threats we all face that I have outlined here today. That is why in this fiftieth anniversary year we must shape the United Nations agenda as if we were creating the institution anew. Just as the founders of the United Nations devised a new framework to deter aggression and armed conflict, the United Nations, in particular the Security Council, must now assign the same priority to combating the threat posed by proliferation, by terrorism, by international crime, by narcotics and by environmental pollution. We should dedicate our efforts in the United Nations and elsewhere to turning our global consensus against these threats into concrete and effective action. We must renew and reform the United Nations not for its sake, but for our own. We are meeting on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations in order to assess, as we do each year, the progress made by our Organization, an institution which was built to uphold peace and solidarity among men. To judge by its agenda, this session very much resembles past sessions, but clearly this year’s session has a much deeper meaning, because it marks the passing of 50 years for the Organization, 50 years during which the common destiny of diverse peoples has been consolidated and advanced, despite many challenges and perils. It is significant on the eve of this fiftieth anniversary to see the representative of an ancient European nation presiding over the work of the fiftieth session. Indeed, the continent to which Portugal belongs, with its historic role, has always been a major actor in the mechanisms of international relations. The election of a President from Portugal testifies to unanimous recognition by the international community and is also a tribute to the President’s talent and great diplomatic abilities. I take this opportunity to address our warm congratulations to the President’s predecessor, our brother and friend, Amara Essy, of Côte d’Ivoire, who so ably and with great dedication guided the work of the forty- ninth session. It is also significant that this symbolic session is taking place during the mandate of Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, elected some three years ago to head this Organization. Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali is also known as one of the skilled negotiators who, through their foresight and diplomatic talent, have cleared the way for peace in the Middle East. Today, he is working tirelessly in the noble and challenging mission of having the United Nations live up to its noble ideals, its inviolable principles and its central purposes. The Republic of Mali became a Member of the United Nations 35 years ago, on 28 September 1960, only six days after its accession to national and international sovereignty on 22 September 1960. Mali, together with some 30 other African States, thus expanded the family of independent and free nations, bringing to the United Nations the vitality, humanism and generosity of the peoples of Africa. The international personality of Mali — a personality that has been forged through the centuries — is based first of all on the ability of its people to live in harmony with their neighbours and on Mali’s openness to the world, its sense of solidarity and its steadfast commitment to defending the values of mankind. The Republic of Mali will continue to be dedicated to that vocation despite the set-backs and misunderstandings that are inherent in contacts between diverse cultures and traditions because we have the firm conviction that ethnic and cultural diversity constitute a source of mutual enrichment, and a powerful stimulant to economic, social and cultural progress. 40 Indeed, by its geographical position, Mali is at the crossroads between northern Africa and sub-Saharan Africa. It is a nation enriched by centuries of playing the role of a melting-pot of diverse cultures. Today, fortunately, Mali lives in an atmosphere of good will, ethnic pluralism, religious pluralism, political pluralism, social and cultural pluralism. The national problem in the northern part of our country has been making news because of partisan, unfounded allegations broadcast across the world by lobbies whose sole objective is to destabilize young States. The crisis that shook the northern part of Mali by its murderous and destructive character is one of the harshest tests that my country has experienced. With the restoration and consolidation of peace and the return of Malian refugees on a massive scale, the feelings of rejection of the State, noted with the blockages and ensuing violent reactions, have become an anachronism in a State that is founded on the rule of law, a State where neither the language of arms nor that of any other form of violence is admissible as a form of expression of the right to representation. The successful meeting in Timbuktu between the Government and the development partners in northern Mali from 15 to 18 July 1995, is not only a symbol of exemplary international solidarity but provided an opportunity for international opinion to take note of the firm will of all sectors of Malian society to tackle, first and foremost, the tasks of development. Born after a painful confinement on 26 March 1991, the date when a popular revolution triumphed, democracy has become a permanent and ever-present fact in the daily life of the people of Mali, who have had to pay a heavy price to achieve it. The democratic revolution which took place four years ago in Mali is a part of a general movement throughout the world to knock down the fortresses of oppression and alienation of peoples. It gave rise to a young democratic State which, despite the shortcomings inherent in any human undertaking, does represent a successful example of the rapid construction of a State built on the rule of law. Concerned with consolidating this democratic process, the Government of Mali initiated, and successfully carried out a year ago in the framework of a search for a general consensus on all of the problems of the nation, wide regional conferences followed by a national conference. This forum allowed all of the forces of the nation to debate in a transparent context all of the concerns of the people and enabled the governors and the governed to develop consensual solutions to face the challenges relating to the future of the nation and the development of the country. May I emphasize that democratic Mali has made it a point of honour to respect human rights and the rights of peoples. Thus a distinguished panel met on 10 December 1994, the anniversary of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, bringing together noted international jurists who, in a completely transparent context, held public hearings with the Government of Mali on its human rights management. This was a bold exercise which set a valuable example and enabled us to demonstrate that respect for human rights and the establishment of a State based on the rule of law have now become a reality in Mali. In Mali, as in many countries, history accelerated at a dizzying pace towards the end of the 1980s. The fall of the Berlin Wall was a symbol of the end of the division of the world into two rival ideological and military blocs. This foreshadowed fundamental and irreversible changes in international relations and led to a new thinking on relations of force between great and mid-sized Powers. The end of this bipolar world was expected to make the risk of a world war disappear. Mankind hoped to see the realization of its legitimate aspirations to peace and security. That hope quickly waned when we realized that the period following the fall of the Berlin Wall became a period of heart-rending conflicts throughout the world. We have been seeing a terrible cycle of violence and destruction shaking the very foundations of the unity, territorial integrity and sovereignty of many countries. Africa, it is said, is a land of fire on the belly of the world. It remains a suffering continent. It carries within it deep divisions and we see unbearable images of endless lines of refugees fleeing from their own country. The problem of refugees remains a tragedy, one which the international community must rapidly face and resolve. The inter-ethnic massacres in Burundi and Rwanda which led hundreds of thousands of victims to flee their homes are powerful challenges to human conscience and morality. 41 The situation in Rwanda calls for a constant effort on the part of the United Nations to restore peace and enable hundreds of thousands of refugees to return undisturbed to their homes. The tragedy of Rwanda, which does dishonour to the human race, demands for that reason that the international community seek a way to implement solutions to ensure that that country shall achieve harmonious and definitive inter-ethnic coexistence. Hence, Mali, which has a military contingent in Rwanda, suggests that Rwanda should receive substantial assistance from the international community. Among the armed conflicts that afflict our continent is that of Somalia. In that country, the situation remains chaotic as a result of the intransigence and ambition of the warlords. The States of that region have already made major efforts in the search for peace and we pay tribute to them. They should, with the assistance of the international community of course, redouble their efforts in order to achieve solutions acceptable to all the parties. Should they succeed, the efforts under way in Liberia could set an example for the settlement of local conflicts through subregional initiatives. Since the 19 August signing of the Abuja agreement by the parties to the conflict, a transitional Government of National Union has been established in the capital, Monrovia, with a view to holding free and fair elections: a sure sign of the return of peace to Liberia. With regard to crisis-settlement in Africa, Angola provides a source of great satisfaction with the signing of the Lusaka Protocol of 20 November 1994, and especially with the meetings at Lusaka and at Cape Town between President José Eduardo dos Santos and Mr. Jonas Savimbi. That impetus towards peace is being consolidated with the participation of the União Nacional para a Independência Total de Angola (UNITA) in the exercise of power. I take this opportunity to offer warm congratulations to all the African Heads of State and to the Secretary-General and his Special Representative on their remarkable contributions to the restoration of peace in Angola. Mali also follows with interest the question of Western Sahara; we sincerely hope that the organization and upcoming holding of a referendum on self-determination will lead to permanent peace in this north-western part of our continent. As the President of the Republic of Mali, Mr. Alpha Oumar Konaré, has always stressed, Mali earnestly encourages the creation of an African-run central machinery to prevent, manage and settle conflicts in Africa. We invite the international community to support this initiative. The world must understand that the prevention of conflicts costs mankind less than dealing with their consequences. The Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations must grow increasingly involved in anticipating conflicts and less dependent on seeking remedies after the illness has taken hold. A major political development of the 1990s has certainly been the gradual return of peace to the Middle East with the signing of the Israeli-Palestinian agreement in 1993. We earnestly hope that talks on the Golan between Israel and Syria and the new agreement on extending Palestinian autonomy to the West Bank will put the final seal on a comprehensive peace in the region. In the Middle East as elsewhere in the world, Mali continues to make its modest contribution to the quest for international peace and security. Within the United Nations, the Non-Aligned Movement, the OAU and all other regional and subregional groups, my country quickly saw the need for a new, broader vision of international relations, the only credible alternative to the division of the world into two rival blocs, whose bitter competition could have led mankind into catastrophe. The end of the bipolar world confirms the correctness and relevance of that political perception. That is why, consistent with our convictions, we think that for developing countries the United Nations remains the most appropriate framework to plumb the true aspirations of mankind: the inevitable needs of development and the establishment of relations of greater solidarity between countries of the North and of the South. We must understand that growing poverty and destitution are at the root of violence and armed conflict. Hence, development questions remain in the forefront of the concerns of all countries. Today, economic performance is a criterion for assessing the power of a State in the community of nations. Here, unfortunately, Africa remains on the sidelines. Indeed, despite the resumption early last year of world economic growth after several years of stagnation, the situation of Africa, resulting from its marginalization, continues to be of great concern. The efforts of Africa’s developing countries through economic reform, structural adjustment and encouragement of the private sector have been wiped out 42 by fluctuations in commodity prices and by excessive costs of debt service. At the same time, direct foreign investment in the continent remains weak. Moreover, Africa’s burdensome debt is constantly growing, now consuming 25 per cent of our export earnings. The tragedy of this situation lies in its concurrence with a resurgence of natural disasters and the persistence or exacerbation of illnesses such as acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and, especially, malaria. “An Agenda for Development” recognizes the right of developing countries — especially the least developed countries — to development; it must reorient the objectives and priorities of the United Nations system towards socio-economic programmes and activities aimed at eliminating poverty and developing human resources through education, training, social integration and the creation of productive jobs. Unfortunately, the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s remains no more than a devout wish. The only initiative under that programme — the establishment of a diversification fund for African commodities — has not succeeded owing to the clear reticence of some developed countries. This proves, if proof were needed, the scant interest in Africa’s legitimate claims for reinvigorating the continent’s growth and development. International trade relations have been marked by the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of negotiations and the establishment of the World Trade Organization. Developing countries expect complete implementation of the Final Act of the Uruguay Round, especially with respect to compensatory mechanisms for the least developed countries, for net food importers and for those which will experience negative effects from the elimination of the generalized system of preferences. According to concurring estimates by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the overall result of the eighth negotiating cycle will benefit the industrialized countries only. To take the example of Africa, OECD studies project losses exceeding $2 billion by the year 2002. In this connection, the World Trade Organization should offer bold decisions and recommendations in favour of Africa. Environmental questions are of major concern, for the very survival of mankind depends on a balanced ecology. We fervently hope that the decisions and recommendations of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development will be quickly implemented in order to save our planet from dangerous, fatal deterioration. My country, which has experienced the effects of drought and desertification and which must still address their consequences, attaches great value to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, concluded at Paris on 17 June 1994. Among the priority challenges facing the international community are social questions, including overpopulation, the production, trafficking and use of drugs, unemployment, violence, social disintegration and the role of women in economic and social development. We are convinced that the International Conference on Population and Development, held at Cairo, marked the beginning of a new process with respect to population and development strategy. Likewise, the recommendations of the World Summit for Social Development, held last March at Copenhagen, should help ease the fate of the most severely disadvantaged. The Fourth World Conference on Women, held at Beijing from 4 to 15 September 1995, constituted a praiseworthy concrete initiative to take true account of the role of women in economic and social activities. Like most other African States, Mali remains a poor country faced with major problems — structural and related to our circumstances — of economic development. The implementation of our programme of action for the 1990s is founded on strategies scrupulously based on agreements with the Bretton Woods institutions on economic and financial policies for the decade. Besides stemming from our national will, our country’s basic guidelines are in perfect keeping with a strategy for sustainable development and with the United Nations Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s. The Republic of Mali is working tirelessly to resume dialogue on strengthening international economic cooperation for development through partnership. In Mali this has been reflected in round tables with our development partners in key sectors of the national economy. On population policy, our country’s activities include the establishment of a decentralized institutional coordinating machinery for the implementation of population policy throughout the country, and work in 43 various areas of economic and social development. Moreover, the United Nations Population Fund programme with Mali has been adapted to the content and policies of the Programme of Action adopted at the International Conference on Population and Development. We in Mali think that the implementation of these various United Nations programmes and activities, based first and foremost on an increasingly sustained national effort, requires more vigorous mobilization of both multilateral and bilateral assistance. Thus, it is increasingly urgent for rich and industrialized countries to provide the United Nations and its specialized agencies with the resources they need to properly implement the various plans and programmes of action adopted since the beginning of the 1990s. That is the only way in which the twenty-first century can see a widespread economic takeoff and shared prosperity for all. The Republic of Mali is unreservedly committed to more open international cooperation based on solidarity. Stronger still is our readiness to work towards economic integration within Africa, most of whose States cannot achieve sustainable and balanced development on their own. Working through regional groupings, African countries must carry out an economic policy of complementarity with respect to their national production, and must limit all competition that is harmful and that gives rise to the serious problem of negative resource flows. These economic entities, established by interdependent States, must enjoy all necessary support from development partners. The United Nations, born in the wake of the greatest trauma mankind has ever known, set as its goal the building of a new world through law. A powerful mechanism in the service of peace, solidarity and development had been created. Never before has the world produced such an impressive arsenal of texts, conventions, declarations and programmes of action, all aimed at defining the rules of international conduct, preventing war and conflict, guaranteeing peaceful coexistence and promoting development. With the United Nations, a new international ethic was born. The victorious Powers of the Second World War, which retain the formidable right of veto, had a moral duty to make that ethic a permanent one. Having been conceived through relationships of force, the United Nations unfortunately grew fragile owing to bloc and Power rivalries. Hence, the Security Council, which is none the less the main body responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, was often paralysed in carrying out its basic mandate. In the course of this half-century, several serious conflicts nearly led to a third world confrontation. While the world has seen a period of non-war at the global level, people themselves have been afflicted by the balance of terror imposed by the nuclear Powers. The new international political context that has prevailed since the end of the 1980s is increasingly fertile ground for an international consensus favouring a needed rehabilitation of the United Nations and a restoration of its authority in carrying out its basic mandates. There remains an urgent need to undertake the restructuring and revitalization of United Nations structures to make them more effective: to take more rapid, fairer decisions and to be better able to monitor, respond and sanction wherever and whenever necessary in the interests of the international community. That, indeed, is the mission of the United Nations, which has established peace-keeping operations since 1948. It is the duty of all States to provide these peace- keeping operations with sufficient human and material resources, so that no one can doubt the Organization’s credibility. Wherever they are deployed, such operations must also face serious attacks on human rights and the rights of peoples. In that connection, the tragic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina merits the full attention of the General Assembly. In accordance with United Nations resolutions, the international community must restore the sovereignty of the Bosnian people and the territorial integrity of their Republic. The delegation of Mali, which also endorses the relevant resolutions of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, considers that the challenge to the international community in this former Yugoslav republic must be addressed with determination to stop it from becoming a dangerous precedent in international relations. A world based on law must be supported by the ideal of a world of justice. The need to provide assistance, so often invoked by the United Nations and by regional organizations, has relativized the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of a State when the international community finds in that State flagrant violations of human rights and the rights of peoples. The United Nations has thus carried out an act of justice and law in reestablishing republican institutions in Haiti. It is also in the name of law and justice that Mali calls for the lifting of international sanctions against Libya and Iraq, whose peoples want nothing more than 44 happiness, well-being and peace. Maintaining these sanctions, which affect only the Libyan and Iraqi peoples, runs frankly counter to morality and to our duty to assist and show solidarity with those peoples. The twentieth century will have been a century of enormous progress in all spheres, in the course of which mankind will have demonstrated its impressive creative capacity. It is an important symbol that it was during this century, just a few months ago, that the international community reaffirmed its determination to ban forever the proliferation and use of nuclear weapons by the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). The rejection of the nuclear weapon marks an irreversible choice by the world’s peoples: in favour of peace and development. It is surprising that nuclear-weapon States have not understood the extraordinary trust that the rest of the international community has shown in them by its overwhelming accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons; that trust requires responsibility on the part of nuclear-weapon States. Those States must meet the challenge of peace by putting a complete and immediate end to real and simulated testing and by gradually destroying their nuclear arsenals. As we come to the end of the second millennium, we see a world-wide movement for democracy and freedom. The Organization has everywhere encouraged the quest for justice and the free expression of peoples. To consolidate its gains and to become permanent, this vast movement must be accompanied by the democratization of international relations. But unfortunately, that democratization is late in coming. The President of the Republic of Mali has described the situation in this way: “Present inequalities among individuals, among communities and among States unmistakably raise the question of justice, linked at the national level with order and morality ... The world is composed of ongoing disparities, which give rise to conflict and violence. We must all understand the peril we incur by failing to reorder present structures that are unfavourable to the less well off and that benefit the more powerful. We need a world of greater solidarity; a less selfish and more humane world”. It is, indeed, sad to note that international relations continue to be governed from the standpoint of carving the world up into spheres of influence and spheres of interests, even though new political and economic changes in developing countries demand new behaviour by our development partners, specifically the industrialized countries. It is increasingly clear that on the whole international cooperation is being fueled by economic criteria alone, to the detriment of the values of solidarity and justice. Yet the challenges facing mankind are common challenges. They include environmental degradation, pollution, toxic waste, sickness, hunger, poverty and malnutrition. The balance of the planet and the survival of mankind depend on the collective solutions we find to these serious problems. It cannot be overstressed that only international relations based on solidarity, fairness and justice can enable us to face the challenge; and these are within our grasp. The maintenance of peace in the coming millennium will depend on the international community’s ability to foster development for all. Hence, it is urgent to restore the values of solidarity, justice and democracy in international relations in order to save succeeding generations. Mr. President, I wish to extend to you, on behalf of the South African delegation, my sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. Your election demonstrates the high regard in which the international community holds your country. I should also like to express our deep gratitude to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, a brother from Africa and the Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, who presided over the forty-ninth session with great wisdom. I should also like to express to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our continued confidence in his guidance of the Organization. A half century ago representatives from 50 countries met at San Francisco to draft the United Nations Charter, the Declaration of Human Rights and the Statute of the International Court of Justice. For the United Nations to have survived for a period of 50 years in an imperfect world is indeed a milestone and a tribute to the visionary steps taken half a century ago towards the creation of a better world. South Africa’s involvement with the United Nations goes back to the very conception and birth of this illustrious body. The then-Prime Minister of South Africa, Field Marshal J. C. Smuts, helped to draft the Preamble to the Charter of the United Nations. In the Preamble many lofty ideas were expressed, among which were the following: “to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small”. How ironic that those in power in South Africa since then, and until last year, acted in a precisely contrary spirit. The United Nations contributed significantly in bringing about change in South Africa. Through perseverance and commitment, the United Nations assisted us in our struggle to achieve democracy. Our General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 reward is its reward. I should like again to express the gratitude of both the people and the Government of South Africa for its foresight and courage. Just over a year ago, on 23 June 1994 to be precise, I had the honour to address the Assembly on behalf of the people and the Government of the Republic of South Africa. On that occasion, which marked South Africa’s resumption of its participation in the work of the General Assembly of the United Nations, we were filled with joy and pride at the peaceful transition of South Africa into a united, non-racial, democratic and non-sexist society. In the intervening months I have travelled to many countries, visited with many foreign ministers and met with several Heads of State or Government. We spoke of the miracle that is South Africa. We shared our thoughts and experiences on the road to that miracle. In that context, we continue to encourage those who seek change for a better life to stand fast in their belief. As the representative of a Member of the United Nations, I should like to reassure you of our belief in and support for the purposes and principles of the Charter of the Organization. The events in April 1994 in South Africa marked a break with the past as well as a commitment to the future, placing a heavy burden on us. As a young democracy, we are ready to meet the challenge. South Africa will meet this challenge with a firm commitment to the promotion of national welfare, prosperity and security, with a firm commitment to the strengthening of cooperation in the pursuit of the economic development and security of the southern African subregion, with an active commitment to peace, stability and good governance within the African region and elsewhere, with a firm commitment to South- South cooperation and with a commitment to responsible international citizenship. The Southern African Development Community (SADC) was conceived in the struggle for freedom in southern Africa and born of the courage of its leaders in setting out to create a new reality. The liberation of South Africa and the end of southern Africa’s destabilization brought great opportunities for the development of our subregion. We must now translate those hopes into reality. In accordance with the Abuja Treaty, we must transform the southern African region into one of the reliable building blocks on which Africa’s economic regeneration will be built. Our greatest need today is to eradicate the scourge of poverty afflicting the great mass of our people. Only then can we fulfil the dream of Africa’s liberation in the health, happiness and well-being of its children. The mission of SADC reflects the reality that southern Africa has long since passed the stage of lamenting the privations of the past. The challenge is to find within ourselves the resources to overcome this legacy, with the cooperation of the international community. We need to adapt to the demands of a rapidly changing world economy and to develop the skills needed to compete internationally. South Africa’s main objective is to play a constructive role in bringing peace and stability to the region. We are totally committed to the utilization of preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping and peacemaking, through the use of regional and multilateral mechanisms. In this context, South Africa participated with others in the resolution of the conflict in Lesotho and provided logistical support for the elections in Mozambique. Our support for United Nations resolutions and actions regarding Angola and the Western Sahara should also be seen in that light. As an elected member of the Central Organ of the Conflict Resolution Mechanism of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) from June 1994 to June 1995, we participated in several missions to Burundi. South Africa was part of a special four-member ministerial mission elected to assess the nature and the scope of the Burundi conflict with a view to encouraging and assisting the Burundians to resolve their differences and end that conflict. We continue to participate in the Mechanism as an invited observer. In view of the desperate situation in the former Yugoslavia and in Rwanda, it has become imperative for States to cooperate as far as possible with the respective ad hoc criminal tribunals that have been created for those territories. In that regard, my country has made available some of its most talented jurists to assist. These situations have demonstrated anew the real need for the establishment of a permanent international criminal court. This issue has been revitalized in the past few years, and a window of opportunity now exists to finally bring the court into existence. It is my sincere hope that significant progress will be made in that regard during this session of the General Assembly. 2 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 As we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, mankind is still faced with political instability, dictatorship, corruption, civil war, millions of refugees and internally displaced persons, persistent economic decline and continued impoverishment. In the past year, the international political climate has experienced a succession of changes which have brought both hope and a certain measure of despair to mankind. Hope has, however, remained a beckoning beacon bringing about a sense of confidence in the future. We were saddened by events in Somalia, but rejoiced at the transition in Haiti and El Salvador. We despair at the tragedy that is Bosnia, yet hope that the emerging signs of a solution will come to fruition. In this spirit, allow me to congratulate the peoples of Israel and Palestine on having reached yet another landmark in their journey towards a lasting settlement. We encourage and support the Middle East peace process. The issues of proliferation and disarmament, in particular nuclear disarmament, are among the major questions that have been facing the international community in recent times. At the historic 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), all those present agreed to exercise the utmost restraint pending the entry into force of a comprehensive test-ban treaty. We are of the view that the recent tests conducted by two nuclear-weapon States are retrogressive steps in the international community’s endeavour to ban nuclear testing. We believe that these tests will negatively affect the outcome of work on a comprehensive test-ban treaty. The South African Government is strongly opposed to these and any further nuclear tests being conducted, and calls upon those States to cease testing, so as to enhance international efforts towards non-proliferation and disarmament. We call upon them to honour both the letter and the spirit of the Principles and Objectives which they agreed to and helped negotiate at the NPT Review and Extension Conference. South Africa has dismantled its nuclear capability. South Africa, for its part, has proven its commitment to nuclear disarmament. Now it is the turn of others to manifest a similar commitment. South Africa notes with great satisfaction the progress achieved thus far towards the establishment of an African nuclear-weapon-free zone. We have been actively involved in trying to find solutions to the outstanding issues, and we trust that these hurdles can be overcome and the draft treaty of Pelindaba can receive due consideration during this session of the General Assembly. The draft treaty is important as it would expand the non-nuclear-weapon area of the globe considerably and would be a further step towards the final goal of complete nuclear disarmament. South Africa appeals to the nuclear-weapon States to ensure that the draft treaty is concluded and the relevant protocols signed. Since the 1986 declaration of the Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic, significant progress has been made in the political, economic, scientific, technical and cultural spheres to further the objectives of the Zone. Only relatively few obstacles remain. We hope to advance this endeavour when the next meeting of participating nations takes place in Cape Town in March 1996. On 13 September 1995 South Africa became the thirty-seventh State party to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. On the same day South Africa also acceded to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects. The ratification of the chemical weapons Convention again underlines the commitment of the Government of National Unity to the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. South Africa’s accession to the Convention on certain conventional weapons underlines my Government’s commitment to the elimination of the suffering that is caused by the scourge of war. South Africa has, for this reason, decided to extend its moratorium on the export of land-mines by the introduction of a permanent ban on the export or sale of long-lived anti-personnel land-mines. Furthermore, on 30 August 1995 the Government of National Unity approved the draft of a new conventional-arms-control policy. A National Conventional Arms Control Committee has been established and will function in accordance with predetermined guiding principles and criteria to ensure that arms trade and transfers conform to accepted international practice. As previously mentioned, the principal role of the United Nations is to safeguard international peace and security in order to implement universal respect for human rights and to create conditions necessary for sustainable development. Without peace, security and human rights, sustainable development will be difficult to achieve. Without development and respect for human rights, international peace and security will continually be threatened. 3 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 As President Mandela stated in 1992, “Our common humanity transcends the oceans and all national boundaries. It binds us together in common cause against tyranny, to act together in defence of our very humanity. Let it never be asked of any one of us what we did when we knew that another was oppressed.” Mankind should learn to act against all tyranny in a unified manner through the United Nations. This should be our basic aim for the future. South Africa also wishes to call attention to the activities of mercenaries, irrespective of their origin and objectives. Their destabilizing activities cannot be tolerated. We call on the international community and the United Nations to be seized of this problem of mercenaries. The women of South Africa have lived, in varying degrees, under three forms of oppression, relating to race, to class and to gender. One of the first steps towards initiating positive change in the lives of all South African women was the entrenchment of gender rights in our Bill of Rights. It was with much pride that the South African delegation took their seats at the Fourth World Conference on Women, in Beijing. That was the first time South Africa participated in a conference on women which focused on the eradication of poverty, and equal access to education and to health services. South Africa is fully committed to implementing the Platform for Action adopted at that Conference, which will serve as the impetus for a world of equality, development and peace for all. In addition, our Parliament has most recently approved South Africa’s ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, without any reservations. Years of apartheid rule have bequeathed the overwhelming majority black population with a heavy legacy of poverty, social disintegration and political cleavages based on colour and ethnic animosities. It therefore became the priority task of the South African Government of National Unity to devise a national strategy to address this catastrophic situation. A comprehensive and multi-pronged developmental strategy known as the Reconstruction and Development Programme is now being implemented. The implementation of this Programme relies primarily on the mobilization of domestic resources through prioritization of budgetary resources, with a view to addressing the huge material inequalities in such areas as education, health, housing, infrastructure development and land reform. It is a unique people-centred and people- driven Programme, which seeks to translate into economic benefit the political miracle in our country. At the very heart of this Programme is the acknowledgement of the inextricable interdependence between the need for transparent, accountable and democratic governance of our society and the imperative of dynamic economic growth and sustainable development. South Africa will host the ninth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD IX) from 26 April to 11 May 1996. This is an event which all South Africans are looking forward to with great expectation. Indeed, it is my pleasure to announce that our preparations are well advanced and on course. We attach great significance to UNCTAD IX for a number of reasons. We believe that the rapid progress of globalization and liberalization of the world economy has underscored the relevance and importance of UNCTAD as a United Nations institution with a strong development mandate and perspective. We also believe that the successful completion of the Uruguay Round of negotiations and the resultant creation of the World Trade Organization not only has stressed the validity and relevance of UNCTAD, but has also reinforced the need to retain and strengthen UNCTAD’s mandate as a policy- oriented global intergovernmental forum on trade and development issues. It is a forum where a strong partnership for development between the developed and the developing countries can, and must, be forged. While there may be a need to streamline certain UNCTAD activities, this should not lead to its demise. Without UNCTAD, our world, especially the developing world, would be the poorer. I would like to take this opportunity to express my Government’s satisfaction with the intergovernmental process at the United Nations to draw up a United Nations Agenda for Development. We believe that the United Nations is the appropriate forum for the elaboration of the Agenda for Development. The Agenda for Development could open great possibilities for development and for partnership between the developed and the developing countries. It is for this reason that South Africa is taking great interest in the work of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group of the General Assembly on an Agenda for Development. My Government has been following with great interest the ongoing High-level Intergovernmental Meeting on the Mid-term Global Review of the 4 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries. In this connection, I join others in calling on the international community to devise a global strategy to effectively address the debt question confronting the least developed countries, and to use innovative measures — whether it be official development aid, foreign direct investment or multilateral financial assistance — to arrest the decline of resources destined for the least developed countries. I would also like to call upon the international community to vigorously pursue measures required to successfully implement the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. We are pleased in that regard by the progress registered during the Economic and Social Council’s session in Geneva, especially the high- level segment, which was devoted to the aforementioned Agenda. Of course, the challenge before the international community is to find adequate resources to translate this Agenda into tangible results. It is our hope that this issue will be treated with the required urgency, given that next year there will be a mid-term global review of the New Agenda for the Development of Africa. Recognizing the importance of cooperation between developing States, South Africa has acceded to an agreement establishing the South Centre. The South Centre will effectively operate as a policy research unit for the Non-Aligned Movement and the Group of 77, and will draft policy-oriented position papers on issues of critical importance to the South. It will, in addition to this basic function, generate ideas and proposals for consideration by Governments of the South and other institutions. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development engendered a process of environmental action and awareness centred on the relationship between economic development and the sustainable management of the environment. It is our duty to carry this process forward in an integrated manner and reconfirm our commitment to the implementation of international agreements which seek to manage and preserve the world’s environment. South Africa is very conscious that the capacity of developing countries to implement sustainable environmental strategies will have to be strengthened. The resources pledged towards the attainment of goals set out in Agenda 21 will have to be made available if we are to succeed in achieving the imperatives of development, sustainable use of the environment, and democracy in the world. In Africa, in particular, the ravages of drought and the advances of desertification require urgent attention. The global community’s concern for the environment should be reflected in a common approach to the manifold environmental pressures threatening our global heritage. The United Nations also has an important role to play in assisting States threatened by natural or man-made disasters. Preventive diplomacy can contribute towards eliminating man-made disasters. However, the results of both man-made disasters and natural disasters can be ameliorated by effective international humanitarian assistance coordination through the United Nations. This will naturally require more coherent programmed delivery and coordination by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs (DHA) and other international institutions. The United Nations will have to ensure that the necessary capacities and mechanisms are created. Recent international action, especially the follow-up to the Tokyo Conference, has demonstrated that sufficient international will exists to perform this function. We welcome the adoption on 14 September 1995 of General Assembly resolution 49/252, on the strengthening of the United Nations. I wish to assure the Assembly of our intention to work constructively with the President in this endeavour. The world in which we find ourselves today is greatly changed from just 10 years ago. The cold war has ended, the scourge of apartheid has been removed from our common society and peace has come to Mozambique and now Angola. We have also seen the membership of our United Nations increase to 185, a substantial increase since the time the Security Council’s membership was last increased. As a result of these, and other, factors the international community faces a window of opportunity within which the Security Council can be successfully restructured and reformed. Within the overall effort to reform the United Nations, South Africa believes that the structure and functioning of the Security Council should be reformed to make it more representative, democratic and transparent. The product of these efforts must be a Security Council that is effective and legitimate, and that reflects the 5 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 realities of our modern world. This result can be achieved only if reform and restructuring is dealt with as a package. One of the products of this reform process must result in Africa having equitable representation on any enlarged Security Council. It would be appropriate for me to conclude by referring to the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. The people of South Africa will celebrate this fiftieth anniversary in concert with the rest of the world. Our National Committee organizing the events in our country has adopted the following as its Declaration of Intent: “To create an awareness among the peoples of South Africa of the role which the United nations can play in their daily lives, and to assist the United Nations in responding to the challenges of the twenty-first century.” President Mandela looks forward to joining his fellow world leaders in a few weeks’ time to celebrate the visionary step taken half a century ago towards the creation of a better world. Building on the successes and victories of the past, we now embrace the future. We can face the challenges ahead, inspired by a vision of a new world where peace and respect for human dignity are the standard. It is only right to begin by thanking the outgoing President, Minister Amara Essy, who has done so much for our Organization during the past year, and by congratulating the incoming President, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral. On behalf of the people and the Government of Andorra, I wish him every success and good fortune in his important task. I have no doubt that this distinguished personality from the Iberian peninsula, for whom I have great respect and fraternal esteem, will take the helm of this Assembly with a firm hand. For the last 50 years Heads of State, Heads of Government, Ministers and Ambassadors have been coming before this General Assembly of the United Nations to set out, with hope and with passion, their desire for world peace and the development of our planet. Year after year dignitaries from all corners of the globe have met in New York to reiterate the ideals conceived in San Francisco five decades ago. It is thus an honour and a privilege for me to do the same today, as Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Principality of Andorra, a very old and very small nation, a State that is the fruit of 700 years of peace and independence. The celebration of anniversaries allows people to pause briefly to look back on their past, to reflect, to draw conclusions and to try to better prepare their future. Fifty years after the horrors of the Second World War, “We the peoples of the United Nations” now have the task of reaffirming the importance of our Organization by consolidating its founding principles and giving impetus to the reform of the United Nations so as to make it a modern, efficient instrument for the new international order that has arisen since the end of the cold war. The founding principles of the United Nations could be summed up as follows: equality of States, tolerance, the peaceful settlement of disputes and the promotion of development. The principle of the equality of States is dear to all small States. The preamble to the Charter of the United Nations refers to all nations, large and small. In the General Assembly each State has one vote. A sovereign State is not only a group — whatever its size — of people; it is a history, a language, the will of a people, a sense of independence — in a word, a community of human beings. Some States, like ours, Andorra, have only 60,000 inhabitants. Others have more than a billion. But all have the right to speak and vote at the United Nations. And, just as peace comes into being when the powerful respect the small, the rule of law becomes reality in international affairs when all are treated as equals and when parties can solve their differences at the negotiating table, not on the field of devastation that results from the use of force. Last year, the Head of Government of Andorra stressed from this very rostrum that by their very nature, small States intrinsically and essentially maintain the values of respect for diversity and of peaceful coexistence. To create a world balanced by the rule of law in a world of instincts, exchanges must be based on the principle of equality between States. Nevertheless, the principle of equality should not be reduced to the formula “one State, one vote”. The principle of equality springs from the desire to understand the other, to allow diversity and to exchange different visions of humankind and society. The principle of equality derives from the concept of tolerance. In this International Year of Tolerance, we must be particularly aware of the central position of this idea. The United Nations cannot exist without tolerance. It would surely be absurd to meet in this Assembly if all that were to come out of it was the prevention and outlawing of the opinions of others. Though it is sometimes considered less heroic than force, diplomacy is the supreme instrument we have in this forum, an instrument for respect and understanding. We in Andorra have resorted to diplomacy from historical necessity from very early times; these 700 years of peace of which we are so proud are probably the result. We have also had to be tolerant and to respect others because, during the numerous conflicts that have shaken the European continent over the centuries, we have sheltered on our territory those in search of asylum, from whichever side they came. We have learned, I repeat, of necessity, being weak and humble like all small States, how to differ without imposing ourselves. 14 Let us give tolerance the importance it deserves as a founding principle of the United Nations. But tolerance does not mean laissez faire. Just as John Stuart Mill set the limits of individual freedom at the point at which that freedom infringed on the liberty of others, tolerance is limited only by intolerance. The United Nations has the power to say “no” to those States and peoples who do not respect the religious, political, moral and artistic convictions of others; “no” to those States and peoples who do not respect minorities, be they national or of any other kind, and their languages, which are an essential element of cultural transmission; “no”, above all, when repression is accompanied by the use of force and by cruelty, torture and other unspeakable acts. That is why, since joining the United Nations, my country has attached such importance to the Third Committee of the General Assembly and to questions of human rights. Last year, Andorra took an active part in the debate on capital punishment, applying the constitutional ideas approved by its people, which loves life and believes in it. The United Nations was not built in a vacuum of values — quite the contrary. When, in June 1945, the right words were being sought in San Francisco for the United Nations Charter, those that were found were based on a very clear vision of the dignity of the human being with a universal vocation. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations on 10 December 1948, made clear once and for all what was, is and will be acceptable and desirable, and what is not, in order that the inalienable dignity of every human being should be respected and the limits of tolerance demarcated by defining what we consider to be intolerable. For instance, we find intolerable the ethnic and religious intolerance that leads to disasters like those which the horror-struck international community has been obliged to witness in the territories that were once part of Yugoslavia. To face up to these challenges, the United Nations has made a considerable effort in recent years to carry out large-scale operations to keep the peace. The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, informed us on 3 January this year in his supplement to “An Agenda for Peace” of the considerable increase in the deployment of military personnel since 1988. On 31 January of that year, 9,570 “blue helmets” were engaged in peace-keeping operations; as at 16 December last year, there were 73,393. The near non-use of the veto in the Security Council since the end of the cold war has encouraged this growth in deployment. Very often, unfortunately, we hear so much talk of the failures of United Nations operations that we forget to mention the successes. When we now celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, we should proclaim it aloud: the role of the United Nations has been essential, and the results are highly positive. Let us not ask the United Nations to do what the Organization cannot do, and has no vocation to do, making it the target of criticisms better levelled at the paralysis of Member States. The United Nations is and will be what the Member States wish it to be, neither more nor less, and without miracles. The complexity of the conflicts now afflicting the world, as the Secretary-General has on several occasions pointed out, lies in the fact that most of them are conflicts within the borders of States, or former States. This makes them more complicated than the conflicts we were accustomed to during the years of the cold war, mainly because in many cases the target for destruction is the civilian population, and secondly because the task of the humanitarian organizations and the soldiers sent to keep the peace is not respected by the parties to the conflict, which consider them as abetting the enemy. The action for peace taken by the United Nations, an Organization founded on the ruins of a ferocious war, must be constant. It is our imperative duty to eliminate war and to cut off conflicts at the root. We all know the recommendations listed by the Secretary-General in his “An Agenda for Peace”, so I shall not repeat them. But I will underline the importance in the opinion of my Government of preventive diplomacy. Precisely because Andorra came into being as a result of a peace agreement signed in 1278, which made our territory completely neutral and which called for the destruction of all castles and warlike fortifications, we can well understand the possibility of stopping conflicts in time by means of peace agreements that neutralize the power to harm of the contenders by removing both parties’ access to armaments. But the United Nations and we, its Members, must have the courage to act when the first signs of a conflict lead us to suspect its existence. The world today needs an international authority to facilitate dialogue, to suggest compromises acceptable to the parties to the conflict — above all, when the conflict is in its initial stages — and to confirm the agreements reached by negotiation. The United Nations has demonstrated that it is such an institution, and it would be unjust not to recognize this great merit during this anniversary. Let us imagine a world without the United Nations, where force predominated over law, where there were no standard 15 universal values for which to strive, where the human community, which is capable of the highest and most noble acts, fell into a vortex of egoism, war and destruction. The United Nations is not optional in this world of interdependent States, but indispensable. Please allow me at this stage to evaluate the relevance of Andorra’s modern development in this regard. As I have said, Andorra is a land of peace, welcome and friendship. During the more than 700 years of its existence with its own national identity, particularly in this century, when wars have shaken our neighbour States and Europe, Andorra has been a place of refuge, of asylum and of peaceful coexistence. It is precisely now, when 50 years have passed since the founding of the United Nations as a result of the events of that tragic phase in human history, and when we must still regret that irrationality is sowing death and cruelty in many places throughout the world, that we would like to recall, humbly, but with a firmness informed by the realities of our history, the deep and sincere conviction that Andorra can bring to the world. There can be no difficulty in peaceful coexistence if there is good will and understanding. There can be no infringement of tolerance if there is respect for people and ideas. In a word, magnanimity and indulgence will always be more effective than ignominy and opprobrium. From Andorra we proclaim peace; we call for it and, if necessary, we demand it as a universal possession that no one has the right to change or to violate. When there is serious aggression against nature and the environment, when materialism and speculation seek to obliterate humanism and sensitivity, when the hypocrisy of interests overcomes the reality of ideals, a generous-spirited common effort must be made to find the path of peace and coexistence. The Andorran Constitution enshrines respect for and the promotion of freedom, equality, justice and tolerance, and the defence of human rights and individual dignity. With that background, we forcefully insist before the General Assembly that the primary purpose of mankind is to achieve peace, without reservation and without ulterior motive. None of us here can be satisfied with the results until one day we can announce the great news that peace reigns on Earth. The near-universality of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the spirit of which Andorra has always respected, is a positive example of that common task. It thus gives me pleasure today to announce that the Government of Andorra has submitted the Treaty to its Parliament for ratification. Peace must be promoted. By every possible means, especially through education, we must spread the word everywhere that only tolerance, common sense, understanding, good will, solidarity, respect for cultural diversity with its intellectual and spiritual stimulation, variety and the struggle for social progress and brotherhood can lead to peace and can provide pride and dignity to all human beings while eliminating intransigence and racial, religious, social and political hatred, which are at the root of all conflicts between peoples and civilizations. There must be an end to the horrors and atrocities of the wars that continue to take place in our civilized world amid alarming indifference. These threats affect us all; we must find the means to prevent violence against society and against individuals. It is not enough to cry out in compassion or frustration, or to make the excuse that we are the victims of modern times, as Anthony Burgess put it in his novel A Clockwork Orange. There must be determination if we are to be able to say that we all have a future. There must be serious, unhesitating commitment on the part of those bearing the heaviest responsibility, particularly with respect to the economic consequences, which are in fact predominant in causing certain scandalous situations and in keeping them alive. We must act with morality if we are to be able to face repeated aggression against human rights. It would be wonderful if we could all make an unstinting effort to emerge from the shadows and if, with one voice, we could set up the machinery that would make peace triumph forever, and could understand — in the words of François Mitterrand, former President of the French Republic and therefore former Co-Prince of Andorra — that “awareness of injustice is not enough to combat injustice”. As we strive towards peace let us always remember that we can never reach the development goals set by Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali in his “An Agenda for Development” without reducing the warlike and military activities of the poorest countries. Let us face the facts: development makes for peace, but without peace, without eliminating unnecessary spending on military equipment, without agreement among Governments that rightly demand a better future for their citizens, there will be no development. But this must not mean a relaxation of the development efforts that Member States and the Organization itself have always promoted. Day after day in the field, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and 16 Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the World Health Organization (WHO) carry out work that is far too important not to enjoy our sincere support. I take this opportunity to announce that during my stay in New York I signed, on behalf of the Government of Andorra, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which reflects my country’s recognition of the cause promoted by that great text. Men and women like the late James Grant — who at UNICEF carried out such tasks and contributed to the well- being of so many children throughout the world — demonstrate the productive vitality of the United Nations. We in Andorra are much concerned with questions of development. Despite our modest means and small territory, we feel solidarity with victims of malnutrition, hunger, sickness and the lack of educational opportunities. Our foreign policy at the United Nations has been oriented in that direction. Last March, the Andorran Head of Government brought to Copenhagen a message of solidarity, and declared that poverty was not inevitable. Andorra is a small State; we are therefore convinced that, apart from the importance of large programmes and their inevitable macro-amplitudes, social development is a more accessible goal when it is approached on a small scale, at the level of the community or indeed of the family. Hence, the Declaration of the World Summit for Social Development includes a commitment proposed by Andorra, which we shall invoke in our work in the Assembly’s Main Committees. This commitment urges us to “Acknowledge and encourage the contribution of people of all age groups as equally and vitally important for the building of a harmonious society, and foster dialogue between generations in all parts of society”. (A/CONF.166/9, para. 29, commitment 4 (h)) Human beings, happily, are living longer, and their numbers are growing. We must find new ways to guarantee the balance of the social contract between generations, and make social integration — one of the pillars of development — work. To that end, we need to devote special attention to the problems of unemployment and the social integration of young people, particularly this year as we mark the tenth anniversary of International Youth Year. I have instructed our Permanent Representative to the United Nations to devote time and resources to initiating a dialogue with his counterparts on the question of youth. We have recently seen how three great conferences — those of Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing — focused the attention of the international community. Cairo addressed problems of population, Copenhagen those of poverty and social development, and Beijing the question of women. It is vital that the conclusions of these high-level meetings not become a dead letter; all Member States must assess their results and consider their concrete applications, both at home and throughout the world. But Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing must not overshadow other similar conferences. I am thinking of Rio de Janeiro and its impact on environmental policy. A country of the Pyrenees, like Andorra, cannot shirk its environmental responsibilities; that is why the office of Andorra’s Secretary-General for the environment has drawn up valuable initiatives to protect our ecosystem, our flora and fauna, our waters and the air we breathe. In this statement I have tried to recall the founding principles that inspire the United Nations, and the great themes on which the General Assembly will reflect over the coming decades. Clearly, not everything has been perfect during the past 50 years; there have been situations where we Member States have not been effective enough. Every day, we hear about hunger, disease and lack of access to education, which affect the poor more often than the rich. But now, on this anniversary, let us take comfort from the work that has been achieved. As I said before, let us consider what the world would be without the United Nations. None the less, on the eve of the third millennium, when interdependence among the Earth’s peoples is stronger than ever, we need the United Nations to be increasingly nimble and flexible, able to process information quickly and to react rapidly to any crisis. Many reforms are needed: reform of the Security Council, now under debate, and that of the Economic and Social Council, which may take place in the future, will not be the last. We also need more effective methods for allocating resources and for evaluating the needs of each department to avoid duplication of labour. The Secretary- General has mentioned this on several occasions, and I have no doubt that, given good will, we shall succeed. The Principality of Andorra — in the words of our Head of Government — is a very old nation and a very young State. We are a newcomer to the United Nations — the 184th Member. Nevertheless, it is to the United Nations that we have set up our first diplomatic mission. Our first Permanent Representative, who during the next two years will be in charge of opening our Mission and starting its activities, presented his credentials to the Secretary-General just over a week ago. 17 With the humility of a newcomer, but with the joy and energy of the convinced, we are making progress in our task of participating in the work of the Organization. I should like, on behalf of the people and Government of Andorra, to affirm our support for the United Nations. We wish it long life and much success in its struggle for tolerance, peace and development, for the benefit of the world and of generations to come. And we express our hope that humankind will guard those values that will allow us all to face the challenges of the future — love, brotherhood and friendship. Let me end this statement by quoting Robert Kennedy: (spoke in English) “It is from numberless diverse acts of courage and belief that human history is shaped. Each time a man stands up for an ideal or acts to improve the lot of others, or strikes out against injustice, he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope, and, crossing each other from a million different centres of energy and daring, those ripples build a current that can sweep down the mightiest walls of oppression and resistance.” I should like to congratulate Mr. Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. We are glad that a representative of Portugal, a nation for which Israel has high regard, was elected to that distinguished post. I would like to express to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, a man of our region and a man of peace, our deepest appreciation for his contribution to world peace in general and to the Middle East peace in particular. Tomorrow, the Jewish people will pray on the day of Yom Ha-Kippurim: (spoke in Hebrew; English text furnished by the delegation) “In the Book of Life: blessings, peace, a good livelihood, good decrees, salvation and consolation. May you be remembered and inscribed.” (spoke in English) We pray for all humanity, for the whole world. For us, the United Nations is not just a place of prayer and surely not a platform for speeches. We come here to state our convictions and to announce our commitments. In our address in 1987, I stated on behalf of the State of Israel: “We have found President Mubarak of Egypt to be a builder of a better life for his people and of bridges for a comprehensive peace in the region.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty- second Session, Plenary Meetings, 17th meeting, p. 23-25) Today, under the leadership of President Mubarak, Egypt is becoming a centre for regional development on the way to hosting the first regional bank of development. In the same address, we stated: “An international conference is the door to direct negotiations. Once convened it should lead immediately to face-to-face bilateral negotiations.” (Ibid., p. 26) On 30 October, 1991, the Madrid Conference took place. In 1992, again we declared: “The opportunity to select, through democratic political elections, the Palestinian administrative council will enable the Palestinian people to exercise a double measure of freedom: the freedom to govern their own lives and to do so ... democratically.” (Ibid., Forty-seventh Session, Plenary Meetings, 20th meeting, p. 48) Last week, we achieved what we promised. Lastly, in 1993, we declared again from this rostrum: “Geographically speaking, we live side by side with the Jordanian Kingdom, and what is so obvious geographically must become clear politically [so that] we can offer the people of both sides of the river full peace, that the Dead Sea can become a spring of new life.” (Ibid., Forty-eighth Session, Plenary Meetings, 6th meeting, p. 22) In October 1994, just one year later, Jordan and Israel signed a peace treaty. Last year, we said here: “All countries of the Middle East face a choice: to remain politically divided and economically stagnant or to become economically advanced and politically just. “... We shall try to establish instruments for development: a regional bank, channels for private investment and a framework for regional planning.” (Ibid., Forty-ninth Session, Plenary Meetings, 10th meeting, p. 16) In October 1994, the first Middle East-North African economic summit was held in Casablanca under the splendid presidency of His Majesty King Hassan II. At the end of this month, a second summit will be held in Amman under the auspices of His Majesty King Hussein. At the end of November, the first ground-breaking Euro- Mediterranean conference will be held in Barcelona. Three years, five promises: all of them fulfilled. I would like to use this occasion to turn to the Syrians and to turn to the Lebanese and ask them to stop hesitating, to stop wandering. They have to look at this record and come in and follow up. The President of Syria has said that from experience he has learned that only through military negotiations and making security the major agenda item can one achieve peace. Sorry: Experience has 4 shown that through negotiation on all levels, embracing all issues without timidity, without fatigue, we can achieve peace. If leaders meet and are not successful at the first meeting, they will have another meeting. How can it be wrong for them to work day and night, ceaselessly, with new ideas and new approaches? They are not wasting the leaders’ time; they are wasting the time of the people — their fortunes, their happiness, opportunities for the younger generation. We also tell all the countries of the Middle East, not that we want to have a new Middle East, but that we want the Middle East to join in a new age — for the good of their people, not for the good of Israel. Israel is in good shape because we are no longer living in a world where there are empires of power and colonies of poverty. Poverty and oppression are home-made, not imposed by others. The choice is before every country to become free and prosperous and democratic, like so many nations have done in a relatively short time in Asia, Latin America and in some countries of Africa. It is their choice, their opportunity not just to build a different world but to introduce the new world to their own people. For us, the United States is not an empire of power. We are not afraid of the United States. For us, the United States is an empire of peace. We need the United States. For us, Russia is going through a process of change. Russia will remain great but will become something different. For us, we welcome the European contribution to other countries east and south of them and the convening of the Barcelona conference to offer the Mediterranean peoples funds and experience to build a new life. We are glad that Japan is expanding its economic horizons and understanding and contributing so that other nations can do so. And we hope that other well-to-do countries in the Middle East, including Arab countries, will help the needy parts of our own region. May I say that in my best judgement the greatest danger is a combination of high technology and deep hatred, of modern instruments and feudalistic views, and the greatest hope for all of us is a double effort to respect human values and modern education. Israel itself is in good shape. We are strong militarily: I do not deny it. We have an excellent economy — an economy of brains, not of material resources. We have absorbed a very large immigration of white and black Jews, white Jews from Russia and black Jews from Ethiopia, and nobody can understand what put Israel in such a relatively good position. What brought this about is, first of all, the return to the moral choice. By the end of this year — at the latest at the beginning of next year — not one Palestinian will remain under our control. For the first time in the history of the Palestinian people, they are educating their children without intervention by us or anybody else. Nobody forces us to do so. We are not weak. We are not poor. We are not under pressure. We have had to take serious risks because terror still continues. The Arab boycott is still intact. In our own country there is strong opposition to what we are doing. We have had to spend a great part of our budget to make peace — and yet, despite all this, we decided to make a moral choice: not to dominate another people. We stated in this Assembly that that was our intention. Now we have done it and even politically, as difficult as it may be at home — because, as a party, we may win historically but we may also lose politically — but then, winning peace is in our eyes more important than winning elections. Why should you be elected if you do not use the mandate of the people to change the course of your history in a reasoned, moral way? We believe that the strength of ethical judgement is as important as military exercises or triumphs. We gave up land and produced instead an economy of brains. Today Israel is making out of its brains more than some other countries in our vicinity are making out of oil. And what we actually expect from the Palestinians is for them to become democratic, to be prosperous, to fight violence and terror, and we are giving our neighbours a simple message: What we can do, everybody can do. For many years there was a legend that only the North, which is white and wealthy and permanent, is a success story, whereas the South is condemned to backwardness, to poverty, to lagging behind. What has happened in Asia, where the most vibrant economic endeavours are taking place today, and what is happening in Latin America show that the economy has nothing to do with geographical location or the colour of the skin. Make the right choice: serve your people and create a new future. What we are offering to anyone who is interested is our experience — open, in a comradely way. We do not want to dominate anybody and certainly not anybody’s economy. We did not give up the domination of people to gain domination of markets. And we are suggesting to 5 our neighbours — and we are happy that they have accepted — is that the new frontiers — say, between Jordan and Israel — will not be frontiers of mines and hostile fences, but an occasion for joint ventures. The whole rift of Africa, the whole valley which is a desert that separates the Jordanians and us will become, with God’s help, a source for work, for development. We will build hotels and schools and desalination plants and parks, and people will be free to move from one side to the other, competing without hating, cooperating without dominating. We want to do the same about the dividing line between us and the Palestinians: we want to build alongside the line on the West Bank and Gaza eight industrial parks so that the Palestinians will not have to cross the border and go through Israel’s checkpoints: instead, work will come to them, and together we shall invest and together we shall develop. A better economy is the best guarantee of peace. Actually, there cannot be economic cooperation without political understanding. Recently, while we were negotiating we created three zones of security sensibility on the West Bank — zone A, zone B and zone C. Then we turned to water and electricity and we asked the water and the current to submit to our political wisdom, but the electricity and the water people said that they did not distinguish between A, B and C. Water flows according to nature and not according to artificial agreements, and electric current does not stop at A or B or C. They serve everybody. Today in the Middle East as elsewhere, the distinction is no longer ideological or religious or national. There is just one distinction between an old, poor, backward economy and a new age where economies are based on technology and science and where the natural resource is schools for the children and not the mines of the Gulf. Everybody can postpone the choice but nobody can escape it. Our aim is to have peace so as to serve our people; to have education so as to equip our children to take advantage of the new age, to be equal to others and to compete with other children. It cannot remain a peace between leaders: it must become a peace for the people, now and in the future. I started by showing what has happened in three or four short years. It is a revolution. It is a beginning. We should not stop in the middle. Let everybody pray to the Lord in the language he is used to. Let everybody respect his own tradition, his own heritage. Let everybody respect the special experience of a people, of a nation. But let all of us give up unnecessary hatred, untold suspicion. Let us give up barricading ourselves behind old dogmas and terrible prejudices. Let us help the people and the future. Then the 50 years of the United Nations will offer not just 50 years without war but the coming 50 years with peace and prosperity. On behalf of my Government and on my own behalf I wish to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral upon his unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. I am particularly gratified that, for the first time since the creation of the United Nations, a son of Portugal — a country with which Mozambique entertains special ties of friendship and cooperation — is 17 presiding over our deliberations. Mr. Freitas do Amaral’s election to this important office bears testimony to his personal qualifications as an enlightened scholar and statesman, a man who has served his country with distinction and has contributed in the dissemination and codification of international law. My delegation, therefore, has no doubt that he will lead our work to a successful outcome. I pledge him our full support and cooperation. I also wish to avail myself of this opportunity to put on record my delegation’s appreciation of the manner in which Mr. Freitas do Amaral’s predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, presided over the deliberations of the General Assembly at its forty- ninth session. His performance during the last session of this very important gathering brought additional pride not only to his country but also to the African continent. I wish to commend the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his continued commitment to the ideals of international peace and security. The people and Government of Mozambique are indebted to him for his dedication to the cause of peace in my country. He was, indeed, a key contributor to the successful outcome of the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ). Fifty years have elapsed since the establishment of the United Nations. There could not be a better opportunity for a collective assessment of its achievements and of the difficulties and challenges faced in its daily operations, as well as of its future prospects on the threshold of the twenty-first century. The creation of the United Nations following the end of the Second World War represents, in our view, the most significant step forward in modern history, symbolizing a collective effort aimed at preventing the eruption of another global conflict and at making our world a much safer place. The shape of today’s world is therefore a clear demonstration of the contribution of the United Nations in its 50 years of existence. While it is true that we are still faced with numerous imperfections, uncertainties and challenges, one cannot deny the fact that significant achievements have been made by the Organization. Owing to the United Nations, it has been possible, to a great extent, to prevent global conflicts. Thanks to the efforts of the United Nations, virtually all peoples of the world are today free from colonial domination. From this body, guided by the principle of self- determination, liberation movements, through the Special Committee on decolonization, aroused awareness of their individual fate. Today, the majority of those countries are here assembled as independent nations, fully exercising their inalienable right to self-determination. This is why the quest for peace and sovereign equality among nations has turned peace-keeping and economic development into two fundamental challenges before the Organization. All this progress has been possible owing to respect for and commitment to the purposes and principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Ever since its independence, my country has attached great importance to respect for and adherence to international law. Mozambique was only nine months old as an independent nation when, in early 1976, its new Government decided to abide by Security Council resolution 253 (1968) of 29 May 1968 regarding the imposition of sanctions against the minority regime in the then Southern Rhodesia. Despite the very high price our people have paid for their commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter, we feel honoured today to have contributed, to the best of our ability, to the implementation of international obligations. These facts were duly recognized in Security Council resolution 386 (1976) of 17 March 1976, which, inter alia, emphasized that the application of sanctions by my Government, in full compliance with the decision of the Security Council, constituted an important contribution to the realization of United Nations objectives in Southern Rhodesia, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter. Indeed, four years later Zimbabwe attained its independence. The same applies to the common struggle for the eradication of apartheid. Mozambique was one of the countries most adversely affected by apartheid and its destructive policies in southern Africa. As will be recalled, within a few years following its independence Mozambique gained international admiration for its significant achievements in raising statistical indicators in key areas of national development — in particular, health care and education. Our economy was among the most promising and vibrant in the southern African region. The situation of impoverishment we are facing today is a direct consequence of the war which ravaged our country for so many years. Our present difficult situation is a direct consequence of the price we paid for our continued commitment to the struggle against apartheid. 18 Both the war situation and the situation of impoverishment in my country were created and promoted by the old racist regimes of former Southern Rhodesia and apartheid South Africa. The peace that has prevailed in Mozambique since the signing of the Rome Agreement three years ago and the visible improvements in our economic situation underline clearly that with positive support and encouragement by the international community Mozambicans can find appropriate solutions to their differences and problems. As I speak on this subject, I am reminded of a statement made by President Chissano in response to the Speaker of the Parliament of the Republic of South Africa, Mr. Freme Ginwala, during a State visit made to that sister country in February this year. On that occasion, the Speaker had apologized in moving terms for the horrible crimes committed against the people of Mozambique by successive apartheid Governments in Pretoria in an attempt to discourage the Government of Mozambique from supporting the cause of freedom and peace in the southern African region. In his reply President Chissano stressed that in so far as he was concerned the people of South Africa had nothing to apologize for because Mozambicans were aware of the consequences of their determination to support the struggle for justice and peace, not only in South Africa but also in the whole region. The President emphasized that in reality all the peoples of the region were victims of the same disease, apartheid, the elimination of which called for sacrifices. Today, we all rejoice at seeing a free, united and non-racial South Africa, poised to fulfil its domestic and international responsibilities in efforts for regional peace, stability and cooperation among southern African nations. With the eradication of apartheid and with our country surrounded by friendly and peace-loving neighbours, peace and stability are now a reality in Mozambique. Southern Africa is now a region of flourishing democracy. Together, we are fulfilling our collective responsibilities for regional economic development. Last January, at the end of the peace-keeping operation in Mozambique, I came to New York and spoke to the Security Council about the progress made since the holding of the first multiparty general elections in my country. I indicated then that peace was indeed a tangible reality in Mozambique. Today, I am once again honoured to reiterate, before this body, my Government’s high commitment to national reconciliation, so as to ensure that the peace we have all worked for is there to stay, forever. Indeed, the advent of peace in my country has paved the way for Mozambicans to pull together for the economic development of the country. Accordingly, the Government that emerged from last year’s general elections has drawn up a Five-Year Programme, from 1995 to 1999, in which the maintenance and further strengthening of peace, stability and national unity and reduction of absolute poverty, with emphasis on education, health, rural development and job creation, are our main objectives. Our Programme also aims at ensuring the resettlement of returnees and displaced persons and promoting the social integration of demobilized soldiers. In addition, we are addressing other pressing issues before us. To this end I should like to emphasize my Government’s resolve to continue working towards a lasting pluralistic democracy in our country. Accordingly, we deem it essential to ensure the normal functioning of our Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic. We believe its normal functioning constitutes one of the key factors for the consolidation of democracy in our society. Within this perspective, my Government has recently established an institution which will be dealing with electoral issues on a permanent basis. The creation and consolidation of a new institution which will supervise our future elections will serve, in our view, as an important confidence-building measure for society and all political parties, for it will ensure confidence in future elections. As a matter of fact, we are preparing to begin next year the holding of municipal elections, which will complement the process that was initiated by the general elections in 1994. The upgrading of the technical capacity of the national police is another Government key priority. As will be recalled, ONUMOZ was unable meaningfully to address the issue relating to the collection of weapons and their subsequent destruction. Needless to emphasize, those weapons represent a great danger not only to our own stability but also to that of our neighbours. In this context, and on the basis of existing agreements between Mozambique and South Africa, joint operations are currently taking place between police forces of the two countries. As a result, thousands of weapons and explosives have already been collected and destroyed. Moreover, my Government is working harder 19 in order to ensure that our police force is better prepared and equipped to deal more efficiently with transboundary crimes, particularly drug-trafficking and money-laundering. On the other hand, my Government considers it to be of the utmost importance that the upgrading of police technical capacity should go hand in hand with similar progress in the strengthening of the judicial system, in order to support the work of the police effectively by prosecuting violators of our domestic laws and regulations. All possible support for our national efforts in this regard will be greatly appreciated. Another area of paramount importance in efforts being undertaken by my Government is that of de-mining. In this regard I am happy to tell the Assembly that the National De-mining Commission has been established. We are currently engaged in final steps which will lead to the approval of our national de-mining policy and programme. Even before the formal approval of such a policy and programme, national de-mining efforts are already visible in the field throughout the country. With sufficient resources I believe we can make greater progress in getting rid of land-mines nationwide. I wish at this juncture to thank all countries and institutions which have contributed to the de-mining programme in Mozambique, and I look forward to their continued support in the years ahead. In this connection I should like to take this opportunity to voice my Government’s full support for the initiatives under way to eliminate and ban these horrible weapons world wide. In spite of all the difficulties, we see ourselves as a nation determined to build a better future for our people. Our economy has grown by over 6 per cent during the first six months of this year. On the other hand, negotiations have been concluded recently between the Government and trade unions in order to find a common platform for the hardships deriving from the implementation of the Economic Rehabilitation Programme that has been under way since 1987. In an attempt to address the increasing cost of living our people are enduring in this process we have agreed to raise the minimum wage. This is why we launch a sincere appeal to our partners to abide by their commitments to a timely and unconditional disbursement of pledged funds within the framework of the Paris Consultative Group. Without fulfilment of those obligations, plans for a better future in our country may be in jeopardy, with all the concomitant negative consequences for the consolidation of the ongoing democratic process, particularly given the concerns over the growing drought threat to our region. We, for our side, are committed to deepening further our economic and political reforms and to improving the system of tax collection, transparency and accountability in the management of public affairs. A lot has been said about the prospects of the United Nations. I agree that our future will depend on the manner in which we address the needed reforms of our Organization. As my predecessor, the now-Prime Minister Dr. Pascoal Manuel Mocumbi, emphasized last year in his address to the Assembly, Mozambique shares a genuine interest in seeing a more representative Security Council. As previous speakers have stressed, the legitimacy and efficiency of that body will greatly depend on its representativeness. Efforts must therefore be made to ensure that the needed expansion of the Security Council not take place merely to accommodate the interests of those who are already privileged by the Council’s current composition at the expense of the majority of nations. A realistic and innovative approach is essential to ensure that, in keeping with current new realities, the interests of developing countries are fully respected, both qualitatively and quantitatively. The reform exercise must also take into account the need for every nation to abide by its financial obligations. In that connection my Government, despite the well- known economic difficulties, has fully honoured its commitments regarding assessed contributions to the United Nations regular budget. We are now taking measures to ensure that all outstanding contributions to peace-keeping activities are settled as soon as possible. We cannot expect a well-functioning and dynamic United Nations unless we provide it with the needed funds. It is only through determined, concrete action that we can all demonstrate our individual seriousness and commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter. The end of the cold war has given rise to mixed feelings about our efforts to address regional conflicts. In Angola, the signing of the Lusaka Protocol between the Government and UNITA, coupled with the subsequent progress made by the parties to the peace process, has paved the way for a renewed hope in that sister country. I believe that Angola is closer to reaching a political settlement that will ensure the attainment of a 20 lasting peace and tranquillity. My delegation encourages the Secretary-General to continue his efforts towards the full deployment of a peace-keeping contingent within the framework of the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III). The attainment of a lasting peace and tranquillity in Angola will be the best contribution to the regional stability and economic development we have long sought in southern Africa within the framework of the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC). In this connection, I am happy to recall that our Heads of State and Government, meeting last August at Johannesburg, welcomed the admission of Mauritius as a new member of our organization. With peace, democracy and growing partnership among its members, SADC is gradually becoming a vibrant and viable market ready to cooperate with other regions in a variety of fields of mutual interest. Our efforts within SADC go beyond mere economic integration. In addition to discussions on peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building mechanisms, we are also addressing concrete issues aimed at preventing possible conflicts between our nations. It is within this perspective that we view the ongoing discussion on such matters as the common utilization of international water courses, transboundary movements of people and goods, and crime prevention and control. My delegation looks forward to a political settlement to the threatening situation in Burundi. It is our hope that the momentum created by the Secretary-General’s recent visit to that country, as well as other important initiatives, will encourage the parties to work for reconciliation in the interest, not only of Burundi, but also of the Great Lakes region as a whole. The need to stabilize the political situation in that country is strictly linked to the future prospects of the ongoing political stabilization in neighbouring Rwanda, where mankind has recently witnessed horrible crimes and the untold suffering of innocent civilians. No one would wish to see it repeated ever again. Given what the Secretary-General in his annual report describes as the “combination of ethnic polarization in Burundi and Rwanda, massive circulation of arms, porous borders and transborder movements of refugees” (A/50/1, para. 888), political settlement in either country, coupled with the early return of refugees and displaced persons, is vital to avert a greater tragedy in the Great Lakes region. My Government therefore urges all the parties concerned to work towards this noble goal. With regard to Liberia, my delegation welcomes the entry into force of the cease-fire on 26 August as a result of an earlier agreement by the Liberian factional leaders. Similarly, we view the swearing in of the State Council on 1 September 1995 as an important contribution to peace in that country. We believe that with tolerance and cooperation among the parties, elections in Liberia can take place within a year as the first step towards a lasting peace and tranquillity in that country. The prospects for peace in Liberia open new hopes for the settlement of the conflict in neighbouring Sierra Leone. My delegation encourages the parties concerned to work together in the search for a negotiated settlement with a view to bringing about a lasting peace and tranquillity in that country. In the Middle East, we welcomed last year, the implementation of the Peace Accords between Israel and the PLO, which resulted in autonomy for Gaza and Jericho. Today, we note with satisfaction that further progress has been made in this peace process, culminating in the recent signing in Washington of new and promising agreements between the parties. This is, indeed, a step forward which we must encourage and support. My Government looks forward to similar progress in future negotiations on outstanding issues, including the Golan Heights, the status of Jerusalem, and other equally important issues for the final settlement of the deep- rooted conflict in the Middle East. The situation in East Timor continues to be a matter of concern to my Government. In this context, my delegation takes note of the Secretary-General’s assessment of the progress made so far in the negotiations between Portugal and Indonesia with a view to finding a political settlement to the conflict in that country. It is our hope that the forthcoming ministerial meeting scheduled to take place in London in January 1996 will lead to meaningful results. Dialogue, not war or use of force, is the best choice for solving conflicts. It is through dialogue that nations and peoples of the world can effectively promote the international peace and security for which we are all longing in the years ahead. Therefore, dialogue must be 21 further encouraged and supported wherever it is sought, be it in the countries of the former Yugoslavia, Somalia or elsewhere around the globe. On the threshold of the twenty-first century, the quest for peace and economic development must be viewed within the context of the principles enunciated by the Secretary-General in his report entitled “An Agenda for Development: recommendations”, where he rightly underlines that development, in its numerous dimensions, “should be recognized as the foremost and most far- reaching task of our time.” (A/49/665, para. 4) During the last few years the developing countries in general, and the least developed countries in particular, in spite of the existing hurdles, have made significant progress in their continued struggle to reverse economic and social stagnation. Within this framework, they have undertaken far-reaching political and socio-economic changes through the implementation of tough structural- adjustment programmes, the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms and good governance. In addition to renewed commitments to conflict resolution, peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-building mechanisms, the efforts undertaken by developing countries should be supported and encouraged by the international community if we are to succeed in our common endeavours for peace and development in our respective countries. As indicated by the President of the General Assembly in his inaugural address, quoting Pope Paul VI, “Development is the new name for peace.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 1st meeting, p. 9) All peoples and nations of the world must be committed to peace and development and pursue them with determination in the new international setting if we are to build a better and safer world for all. This is our challenge for the next century. On behalf of the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, I should like first to congratulate you, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, on your election to the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly, demonstrating the deep trust and expectation of Member States of the United Nations. It is our hope that through your efforts this session will be crowned with good results. I should also like to express appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his activities and efforts in strengthening the United Nations and enhancing its responsibility and role. Fifty years have passed since the end of the Second World War and the foundation of the United Nations. All the people on our planet recall those historic days with unusual feelings. Over the last five decades, the world’s people have followed the path of independence and sovereignty, peace and development, and this process has helped them further confirm their determination and commitment to create a new, free and peaceful world. For the Korean people, the last five decades have been a period of hard struggle against all forms of challenge and difficulty, and also a period of proud successes and victories in realizing independence under the banner of Juche. The entire population of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Workers’ Party of Korea as a grand and victorious festival, with great national pride and confidence, in the wake of the fiftieth anniversary of Korea’s liberation. The strengthening and development of our Party and the progress and prosperity of our Republic are the brilliant fruit of the outstanding idea and wise leadership 5 of the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung and the respected supreme leader Comrade Kim Jong Il. The respected and beloved leader Comrade Kim Il Sung devoted his whole life to the prosperity of the fatherland and the happiness of his people, to world peace and the common cause of humankind, and performed immortal exploits which will be recorded in the annals of history. Our great leader is the saviour of our Korean nation, the Tangun nation, and the founding father of socialist Korea. His great revolutionary exploits will remain immortal, along with his august name. The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung is always with us. More than one year has passed since the death of our respected and beloved leader Comrade Kim Il Sung, during which there has been neither a political vacuum nor instability in our society, and everything has gone well in all fields — political, economic, military and cultural. Socialism of our own style, based on the Juche idea, has made steady progress, since respected General Kim Jong Il has energetically guided all the affairs of our Party and State, including military and foreign affairs, for more than three decades, always working together with the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung for the well-being of the people. The respected General Kim Jong Il is the supreme leader of our Party and State and the Supreme Commander of our revolutionary armed forces. He practices the benevolent politics of love for and trust in the people, basing himself on boundless loyalty and filial piety as well as noble moral obligations towards the fatherly leader. It is the greatest fortune and a unique blessing of leadership for our people to have Comrade Kim Jong Il, the great leader of our Party and people, as the supreme leader. Today our people absolutely respect and trust the respected General Kim Jong Il, who successfully carries forward the revolutionary cause of Juche pioneered by the fatherly leader, and they entrust their destiny to him and march forward vigorously under his leadership. Rallying closely around the respected supreme leader Comrade Kim Jong Il in single-hearted unity, our people will make our country, our fatherland, more prosperous and defend and glorify our own style of socialism, centred on the popular masses, which is independent and unique, in line with the life-long teachings of the fatherly leader. It is with feelings of great pride mixed with heartbreaking bitterness that we recall the last 50 years. As the Assembly is aware, the division of the country and nation imposed the catastrophe of war on the north and south of Korea. Consequently, both sides still suffer from the tragedy of mistrust and confrontation today, when the world is moving towards détente and peace. It is indeed aberrant that the legacy of the cold war, dating from the 1940s, continues into the 1990s, and there is therefore no justification whatsoever for its continuation. The failure of Korea’s reunification will leave the situation on the Korean peninsula indefinitely unstable, and this will not be helpful to peace in either North-East Asia or the rest of the world. Since the early days of the national division, the respected and beloved leader Comrade Kim Il Sung put forward a number of reasonable proposals for the peace and peaceful reunification of the country and devoted all his efforts to their realization until the last moment of his life. In particular, 15 years ago the fatherly leader advanced a proposal for national reunification through confederation, based on the concept of one nation and one State, two systems and two Governments. This proposal fully reflects the reality in the north and south of Korea, characterized by the differences in political ideas and systems, as well as the Korean people’s desire for national reconciliation and reunification on the principle of neither side conquering or being conquered by the other. Upholding the Ten-Point Programme for the Great Unity of the Whole Nation for the Reunification of the Country, proposed by the respected and beloved leader Comrade Kim Il Sung, and in accordance with the three principles of independence, peaceful reunification and great national unity and the proposal for a confederal reunification, we will make our best efforts towards the unity of the whole nation, on the basis of patriotism and the spirit of national independence, and towards the establishment of an independent, peaceful and neutral reunified State of Korea. There is no change in our position with respect to the North-South dialogue. We are prepared to resume it when the atmosphere is created in favour of such dialogue. However, the North-South dialogue, which began after painstaking efforts, has been wrecked by the South Korean authorities, and the atmosphere is not yet ready for the resumption of the dialogue. 6 When our fatherly leader passed away, Heads of State and Governments of the world, even those whose countries have no diplomatic relations with ours, expressed condolences for his death. However, the South Korean authorities, far from expressing condolences for the misfortune of their fellow countrymen, ordered the whole territory of South Korea put on an emergency alert, pointing their guns at our Republic. Worse still, they cracked down on the South Korean people who were mourning the death of the father of the nation. Nevertheless, the South Korean authority still refuses to apologize for this grave, unethical crime, because of which he is denied a seat at any dialogue by the Korean people in both the north and the south, as well as abroad. If the South Korean authorities are sincere in their desire to have dialogue with us, all they have to do first is apologize for the crime they have committed against their fellow countrymen. Another main stumbling-block to the resumption of inter-Korean dialogue and reunification is South Korea’s National Security Law, which defines the fellow countrymen in the north as the enemy and criminalizes any South Korean contacts or dialogue with the people in the North. The National Security Law allows no room at all for elementary rights of democracy and freedom in South Korea today. This medieval law is invoked to suppress and persecute a large number of people, including youths and students calling for the democratization of South Korean society and pro-reunification patriots who have visited the north. This has resulted in a total freeze on and blockade of multi-channel dialogues, contacts and exchanges between the north and south. All these facts demonstrate that as long as the National Security Law remains in place, violating human rights ruthlessly and antagonizing the dialogue partners, freedom and democracy are inconceivable in South Korea, and the North-South dialogue and peaceful national reunification will be simply unfeasible. Voices calling for the abolition of the National Security Law can be heard not only in South Korea but also in various other parts of the world. Last year the United States Department of State urged on two occasions that South Korean authorities abolish their National Security Law, and many delegates called for its abolition at meetings of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. There is no justification whatsoever for the maintenance of the National Security Law, which is anachronistic and evil. For dialogue and contacts, free travel and exchanges between the north and the south of Korea, all legal and physical barriers, such as the National Security Law and the concrete wall dividing the Korean peninsula, should be removed at an early date. The top priority on any agenda for ensuring peace and security and hastening national reunification on the Korean peninsula is the establishment of a new peace arrangement. In this regard, as we have made clear more than once, the outdated system of the Korean armistice should be replaced with a new peace arrangement between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States, which is primarily responsible for peace on the Korean peninsula. The north and south of Korea adopted the Agreement on Reconciliation, Non- Aggression, Cooperation and Exchanges between the South and the North in December 1991, which is a de facto, written, inter-Korean peace arrangement. All that the north and south have to do is put into operation such a peace arrangement that commits both sides to non- aggression. What remains to be done now is for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to establish a new peace arrangement with the United States, which holds the real military commanding power in South Korea. This process cannot be delayed any longer, both in view of the contemporary trend shifting towards peace and détente and away from confrontation and in the current context of the implementation of the Agreed Framework between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States. The United States must fulfil its responsibility and role in working out a new peace arrangement that will replace the system of armistice, a typical cold-war-era legacy still existing on the Korean peninsula. Once legal and institutional mechanisms for such a peace arrangement are in place between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States, the tension on the Korean peninsula will be defused drastically. This in turn will facilitate the smooth implementation of the inter-Korean agreement and prove helpful in stabilizing the situation in North-East Asia and the Pacific as well. When both the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States work together with mutual trust, they can resolve those issues that still remain outstanding on the Korean peninsula. This has been proved by the process of resolving the so-called nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula, about which the world community had once been deeply concerned. 7 The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States signed the Agreed Framework in Geneva in October of 1994, and since then they have both been taking practical steps to implement it. We have honored our commitment by freezing our graphite-moderated reactors and their related facilities, and in return the United States has been working towards progress with respect to the light-water reactor project to be provided to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and a number of other agreed areas. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has, in fact, fully implemented its obligations under the Agreed Framework between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States, and this, indeed, goes far beyond the obligations to be fulfilled by a State signatory to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons under the Safeguards Agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency. There will be no complicated problems that cannot be resolved smoothly if international commitments are implemented as sincerely as the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has done. The point at issue is how the United States will go about proceeding down the road, and we are closely following the course of its actions. If the United States remains as sincere in its approach as it was during its discussions with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea on the nuclear issue, the issues relating to the establishment of a new peace arrangement on the Korean peninsula will certainly be resolved smoothly. The continuation of the armistice status in Korea still ties down the relationship between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United Nations to continuing belligerency. The establishment of a new peace arrangement on the Korean peninsula is a matter that deserves the due attention of the United Nations, which has to work hard to do its part in promoting the arrangement’s realization. This is the only logical course both in terms of wiping clean the slate of the past unsavory relationship of the United Nations with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, a dignified United Nations Member State, and in the light of implementing resolution 3390 B (XXX), calling for the dissolution of the United Nations Command and replacement of the Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement. The United Nations should do all it can to boldly eliminate the old legacy of the cold-war era and to help establish a new peace arrangement on the Korean peninsula. I would like to take this opportunity to express our profound thanks to the Heads of State and Government and the peoples of various countries for their support, encouragement and firm solidarity with the Korean people in their just cause of peace on the Korean peninsula and Korea’s peaceful reunification. Today, on its fiftieth anniversary, the United Nations is faced with heavy tasks if it is to work more actively and effectively for the consolidation of world peace and security, the advancement of social and economic development, and the common prosperity of humankind. In conformity with the purposes and principles enshrined in its Charter, the United Nations should make a substantial contribution to the efforts of all countries and nations to safeguard national independence and sovereignty and to build a new, free and peaceful world without any forms of domination or subjugation. An important priority in the fulfilment by the United Nations of its own mission and role is to make sure that the application of the principle of international justice and fairness is in place. International justice and fairness are vital to the United Nations activities. However, a minority of big Powers are exercising their privileged rights and behaving themselves in a high-handed manner, in opposition to the United Nations Charter, while a majority of small and weak nations are denied their well-deserved positions. Still worse, intolerable events have occurred which ignore the desire of the developing countries and violate their interests. The United Nations should refrain from any acts running counter to the principle of international justice and fairness in its activities and, moreover, should not unjustly apply double standards that enable certain countries to abuse the United Nations in pursuing their own political purposes. The United Nations should respect the sovereignty and interests of the small countries and treat all countries on an equal footing, and should prove itself worthy of its prestige as a world body that substantially contributes to world peace and security, to the economic development of each country and to the greater welfare of peoples. Many countries in the world today are fully justified in their call for the restructuring and democratization of the United Nations. The United Nations will not be able to fulfil its own mission and role unless it adapts to the 8 changes of the times, lives up to the aspirations of humankind and overhauls some impractical structures and authority. The restructuring of the Security Council is most essential for the democratization of the United Nations. One of the key points in the expansion of Security Council membership is to accord priority to the developing countries that form an absolute majority of the United Nations membership, and apply the principle of equal regional distribution with due consideration given to the number of countries in each region. A country like Japan which has not apologized enough for, and wiped the slate clean of, its past wrongdoings is not entitled to become a permanent member of the Security Council. Another point is that the veto rights of the permanent members of the Security Council should be abrogated. The removal of the veto system will mean removing the major stumbling-block to the democratization of the United Nations and the elimination of the legacies of the cold-war era that have encouraged hegemonistic and high-handed actions by a minority of big Powers. At the same time, the power and authority of the Security Council should be curtailed, while the General Assembly should be given more power, and open access to all the work of the Security Council should be available, including to its informal consultations. For a resolution of the Security Council adopted on behalf of the United Nations and calling for sanctions or the use of force against its Member States to come into force, the resolution will have to be approved by more than two thirds of the Member States at the General Assembly. Disarmament, especially nuclear disarmament, is still one of the most important problems placed before the United Nations. A number of signs of progress in the field of disarmament have emerged since the end of the cold war. However, the process of nuclear-weapons reduction is still moving at a snail’s pace, and the concept of what approach should be taken to the existence of nuclear weaponry remains elusive. The continuing pursuit by the nuclear- weapon States of their respective monopolies of nuclear- weapons capability only keeps alive the danger to us of nuclear wars and nuclear proliferation. The nuclear-weapon States must turn around and measure up to the desire and aspiration of humankind to live in peace on this planet by carrying through the universal and complete abolition of nuclear weapons in line with the present-day trends in favour of the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free and peace zones. Today, the question of development has assumed a very serious dimension for the absolute majority of the developing countries. It is, indeed, encouraging to note that the preparation of the Agenda for Development that began at the initiative of the developing countries, with a view to the enhancement of the functions and role of the United Nations in the field of development, is now in the home stretch. If the Agenda for Development is to contribute substantially to the development efforts of the developing countries, it should be directed primarily towards the establishment of equitable international economic relations and the removal of gaps between the rich and the poor — between the North and the South. At the same time, we should not allow any attempts to use this development issue as a means to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries by relating it to the so- called protection of human rights. Today, the non-aligned and other developing countries are working hard to achieve South-South cooperation and establish the South-South economic order. The United Nations should accord priority to the resolution of development issues and take concrete steps to help establish fair and equitable international economic relations that will assist the developing countries in their development efforts and encourage South-South cooperation. At present, the national independence and sovereignty of several countries are ruthlessly trampled underfoot in different parts of the globe, and disputes and conflicts, both religious and ethnic as well as region-wide, which in some cases escalate into catastrophic wars, continue unabated. It is, indeed, painful to see that peace and security are tattered and people are falling victim to disasters. We consider that disputes among countries and nations should be resolved peacefully through dialogue and negotiations in conformity with the interests of the peoples of the countries concerned. Today, all the justice- and peace-loving countries and nations in the world are dynamically struggling to create a new independent world, overcoming all challenges and difficulties, looking ahead to the twenty- first century from the heights of the present vibrant era. 9 We actively support the just cause of the peoples of the members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in favour of peace, stability and common prosperity in their region, and the just cause of all other Asian peoples in favour of building a new, independent and prosperous Asia. We support the Arab peoples in their struggle for a fair and comprehensive resolution of the Middle East question, including the Palestinian issue, and the African peoples in their efforts for independent development of their countries, overcoming all social and economic difficulties. We extend our active support and encouragement to the Cuban people in their just cause in favour of firmly safeguarding the country’s sovereignty and the gains of socialism, and express our solidarity with the peoples of Latin America in their endeavours towards peace and prosperity in their region. We support the people of the non-aligned and other developing countries in their efforts to achieve social and economic development and establish an equitable international political and economic order. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Korean people extends, and will continue to extend in the future, active support and solidarity to the peoples of all the countries in the world in their efforts to build a new society and independent world against all forms of domination and subjugation. I would like to take this opportunity to express our deep thanks to the United Nations organs, specialized agencies and non-governmental organizations, including the United Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs, and to various Governments for the humanitarian steps they have all taken in connection with the recent flood damage in our country. The foreign policy of the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea remains unchanged. The independence, peace and friendship advanced by the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung in his lifetime and now being implemented by the respected supreme leader Comrade Kim Jong Il are the cornerstone and principle of the Government’s foreign policy, and its correctness and vitality have already been powerfully demonstrated in actual practice. Independence is vital to the life of our Republic and the key factor in its domestic and foreign policies. The independent policy of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea not only guarantees the unique character and stability of our own-style Socialist system, but also makes a substantial contribution to peace and security in north- east Asia and the rest of the world. True to the lifetime teachings of the fatherly leader Comrade Kim Il Sung, and under the wise leadership of the respected supreme leader Comrade Kim Jong Il, the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continue as before its steadfast commitment to independence, to uniting with the peoples of all the countries of the world advocating independence, to strengthening further ties of friendship and cooperation with them, and to carrying through faithfully its duties in the accomplishment of the common cause of humankind for world peace and security. The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea wishes to assure the Assembly that, together with various other delegations, it will exert its sincere efforts towards successful debates on the agenda items placed before this session of the General Assembly. Permit me, first of all, to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly. Indeed, as we commemorate 50 years of the existence of our Organization, his unanimous election to preside over this Assembly is a fitting tribute to his country and an eloquent testimony to his personal experience and skills as a seasoned diplomat. I therefore want to assure him of my delegation’s fullest cooperation as he directs and guides our deliberations on this historic occasion, and to wish him every success in that endeavour. To his immediate predecessor, and our esteemed Brother, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, I convey my delegation’s gratitude and appreciation for the exemplary manner in which he conducted the affairs of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I would also like to thank our eminent Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his bold initiatives and his firm guidance of the work of the Organization. The world has come a long way from 26 June 1945, when 50 States appended their signatures to the Charter document, creating this enduring body. In spite of the undoubted advancement of science and technology, and indeed the enormous strides made by the Organization during the past 50 years, the world continues, alas, to be gripped by the same age-old problems of poverty, disarmament, maintenance of peace and security, development and many more. Certainly, on the economic front there is no cause for comfort or complacency. Most developing countries, especially the least developed, continue to be strangled by negative economic trends, stagnating resource flows, seemingly unstoppable reductions in export earnings, rising unemployment and, above all, the phenomenal increase in the number of people living in absolute poverty, occasioned largely by wars, famine, drought and the heavy burden of foreign debts. The debt burden, in particular, continues to be excessive and harmful to the sustainable development of developing countries, especially the least developed among them. In this connection, the initiative of the British Chancellor of the Exchequer earlier this year to put in place measures to help reduce the stock of multilateral debt of the most indebted developing nations is a step in the right direction. Nevertheless, we continue to hold the view that unless the debt issue is seriously addressed by the international community, no meaningful progress for the next 50 years can be accomplished in the foreseeable future by the developing countries, especially the least developed among them. We believe that a permanent and definitive comprehensive solution to the debt problem must be found without further delay. That is why we commend the current Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement, His Excellency President Soeharto of Indonesia, for his initiative in convening in August last year a Ministerial Meeting of Non-Aligned Countries on the subject of debt and development with the theme “Sharing of Experiences”, at which a number of general principles for debt reduction were adopted, marking significant progress in the search for a lasting solution to this nagging problem. We continue to appeal to the international community, particularly to the international financial institutions, to give those modest recommendations serious consideration in the formulation of policies and actions on the debt issue. The persistence of these problems has undermined political stability and threatened regional and international peace and security. Determined as we in the developing countries have been to improve the lot of our people and to redress the economic plight facing our various countries, we still labour under excruciating circumstances. It is now abundantly clear that the developing countries cannot go it alone. We need the involvement of other, dependable, partners, particularly among the developed countries and the major international financial institutions. Additional resources at multilateral and bilateral levels are essential from these partners to achieve rapid improvement in the lives of the millions of our affected people. As for Sierra Leone, since April 1992, when the National Provisional Ruling Council took over the reins of government, we have set for ourselves the task of implementing anti-poverty programmes and socio- economic reforms, including deregulation of prices, exchange control and interest rates, and the reduction of fiscal deficit. Despite the limited scope of the success attained so far, we are determined not to relent in our efforts to cater for the special needs of the most vulnerable groups in society. Calling upon the international community to pay special attention to the problems of developing countries by providing them with financial and technical support should not be considered as an appeal simply for charity but rather an investment in the future development and well-being of mankind. Indeed, we realize that the key to sustainable development in any State is in the hands of its citizenry. Developing countries are now very much aware of this and are taking responsibility for working towards improving the lot of the peoples of their respective countries. Indeed, during the 50 years of its existence, the United Nations has also been studying ways and means of improving the economies of the developing countries of the world. None the less, as our export prices have been on the decline, our economic plans have remained unfulfilled and the rate of growth of our gross domestic product, which was never fast, is in great danger of slowing down to a complete standstill. The technical assistance schemes which have been formulated to study the problem are numerous. My delegation firmly believes that the time has now come for positive action that would lead to the eradication of the largely known causes of economic stagnation, particularly in Africa. We call for a speedy implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s as well as for the consolidation of efforts towards the diversification of the African economies. In a world of growing interdependence, the liberalization of trade, the globalization of the economy and increasing regional integration, sustainable 2 development and the eradication of poverty cannot be ensured in the absence of peace and stability. “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development” not only show that peace and development are inseparable and indivisible but rather that they contain the essential ingredients of a new vision of our one world. No development is possible anywhere, save in an environment that is peaceful, stable and secure. This holds true for national development, as it does for regional and international cooperation. That is why we in Sierra Leone have always believed that peace at home is incomplete unless our neighbours enjoy peace too. Today, more than ever before, we should all be aware that we are our brother’s keeper and that we can no longer afford to be indifferent to developments in any part of the globe. Three years ago, my Head of State, Captain Valentine E. M. Strasser, acquainted this body with the devastation visited on Sierra Leone initially as a spillover from the civil war in Liberia. He explained to this Assembly the pain and the agony that our people have had to endure as a result of that conflict and its ramifications for regional peace and stability. Regrettably, I am again constrained to inform you that the conflict has persisted and that the lives of many innocent Sierra Leoneans continue to be lost. In spite of my Government’s repeated overtures for peace and reconciliation there is as yet no let-up in the fighting on the ground and the rebel attacks against innocent and unsuspecting civilians in provincial cities and several towns and villages in the country continue unabated. Consequently, we are witnessing today the internal displacement of hundreds of thousands of our people and thousands more have had to seek refugee status in neighbouring countries, not to mention the devastation caused to the national economy. What all this means is that the Liberian situation is inextricably linked with the situation in Sierra Leone. It is therefore our ardent hope that with the budding peace in Liberia, Sierra Leoneans can realistically expect a lull in the fighting on their own soil to enable them embark on economic reconstruction and rehabilitation. We would, in this regard, like to express our profound thanks and appreciation to the West African leaders who have made the success achieved in Liberia possible. The leadership of Nigeria, Ghana and the countries contributing to the Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) deserve special commendation. So do the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU), organizations which in their own diverse ways, have contributed to the peaceful developments in Liberia. We therefore call upon this Organization and all peace-loving people the world over to support the new government in Liberia. At the same time, we would fervently appeal to the Liberian people to rise to the occasion, for in the final analysis, it must be Liberians themselves who should find a lasting solution to their problems. We wish the New Liberian Council of State and the people of Liberia success in their search for durable peace in their country, for we believe that such success will have a positive impact on Sierra Leone. The need to strengthen the peace momentum in Liberia is particularly important because during the disarmament process there are going to be thousands of hardened former combatants, some of them probably still armed, who might be tempted to relocate the theatre of war unless they are effectively disarmed, brought under control and suitably reintegrated into Liberian society. Closely linked to the search for peace in Sierra Leone is the implementation of the programme of democratization announced by my Head of State, His Excellency Captain Valentine E. M. Strasser, three years ago for the return of Sierra Leone to multiparty civilian rule. I am happy to report that this programme is still on course, despite the unavoidable delays resulting from the rebel war. The ban on political parties has now been lifted and indeed the registration of political parties completed. A National Consultative Conference convened by the Interim National Electoral Commission was held in mid-August to seek national consensus on how elections could be conducted in a war situation and to discuss some other related issues. At that Conference, it was agreed that both presidential and parliamentary elections will be held not later than in February 1996. The Revolutionary United Front, the rebel faction, was invited to participate in that political process, but unfortunately, their response, as has consistently been the case, was negative. Yet, in spite of this, we continue to persist in pursuing peace and continue to state clearly that the peace option is still on the table. Be that as it may, I should also state that as a responsible Government, we cannot give up the armed struggle, if only out of the sense of legitimate obligation to protect the lives and properties of innocent Sierra Leoneans, who have borne a large measure of the brunt of our senseless rebel war. At this juncture, my delegation would like to express its appreciation to this Organization, to the OAU and to 3 the Commonwealth for responding positively to our request for help by way of exploratory fact-finding missions to Sierra Leone. In the case of the United Nations, the Secretary-General subsequently sent a resident Special Envoy in the person of Ambassador Berhanu Dinka, who is still in the country offering assistance. It is an encouraging sign that the international community, through the United Nations, the OAU and the Commonwealth, is just as anxious as the National Provisional Ruling Council Government to see an early end to our destructive war so that our peaceful citizens may once again be able to live in an environment free of fear and anxiety and to engage in their ordinary daily pursuits. At the same time, while appealing to the international community to help us with logistical, financial and related support in the implementation of our political programme, we will also require similar assistance, at the appropriate time, in rebuilding and rehabilitating our devastated economy. In this connection, we would like to express our deep and sincere appreciation to all friendly Governments, particularly Nigeria, Guinea and Ghana for their assistance in our trying moments. The world-wide problem of refugees and displaced persons continues to be our concern, particularly as we ourselves have become victims of this scourge. More than half a million of our citizens have become displaced in Sierra Leone, and hundreds of thousands more are refugees in neighbouring countries. The yearning of all these people is for an opportunity to finally return to their homes, settle down and rebuild their lives. We urge the international community to urgently help us bring our people back home. The use of narcotic drugs has for some time now been a source of concern, mainly to developing countries, because of the inherent danger it poses to society, especially the young. Today, no country can claim to be insulated from this scourge, as it is now a global phenomenon. The abuse of drugs and drug-related substances is gaining in prominence, not only in Sierra Leone, but in the whole West African subregion, and there is no doubt that with the prevalence of rebel wars it will continue to plague us long after these wars are over, thereby threatening social peace and stability in the countries concerned. The Government of Sierra Leone is determined to take all necessary measures against drug abuse and illicit trafficking domestically, as well as through subregional and international cooperation. To this end, my Government has ratified the 1961, 1971 and 1988 Conventions dealing with illicit drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking, and has set up both inter-ministerial and technical committees comprising all relevant sectoral departments to advise the Government on effective measures to contain drug abuse and other related ills. No one can deny that the threat of global nuclear destruction posed by the cold war has receded. However, it is becoming increasingly clear to us that where one type of peril has been combated others are swiftly arising to take its place. Today, the breakdown of bipolar control has lifted restrictions on long- simmering civic, ethnic and territorial disputes. Violence has brought the very existence of some States into question and, with it, gross violations of human rights, including instances of genocide exceeded only, perhaps, by those of the Second World War. Conflicts are becoming more numerous and more complex, and are scattered all over the globe, even as there are glimmers of hope. In Africa, for example, we welcome the recent developments whereby both parties in the Angolan conflict are moving towards allowing the will of the Angolan people finally to prevail over the barrel of the gun. My delegation also notes with satisfaction the agreement by UNITA to join with the MPLA in a government of national unity. In like manner, the acceptance by the Mozambican opposition leader, Comrade Afonso Dhlakama, and his men of the outcome of the electoral process should be a source of relief to all Africans and peace-loving people everywhere. It is our fervent hope that the Mozambicans will emulate the example of their neighbours in Zimbabwe, South Africa and Namibia — societies which have shown that, with the right political attitude and good will, it is quite possible to replace strife with reconciliation and hatred with accommodation. In the Middle East, we view the developments that started a few years ago with the mutual recognition of the PLO and Israel, followed later by the signing of the Washington Declaration between Jordan and Israel, which ended the state of war between them, as extremely important positive steps towards the full realization of peace in that region. In like manner, we welcome the just- concluded Interim Agreement on Jericho and the West Bank, signed by Israel and the PLO in Washington. In the same vein, we commend Norway, the United States, Egypt and all those others that in one way or the other have played, and are continuing to play, a role in moving this historic conflict towards a peaceful resolution. 4 On the other aspect of the Middle Eastern equation, we urge Israel, Syria and Lebanon to join fully in the historic peace process and display a spirit of accommodation, in the interest of all the people of the Middle East and mankind as a whole. With regard to the dispute between Kuwait and Iraq, we call upon Iraq fully to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait, in accordance with the terms of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. However, we call upon the international community, in applying sanctions against Iraq, not to lose sight of the suffering being experienced by the innocent civilians of that country. My delegation welcomes the decision to extend indefinitely the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), a decision which my country co- sponsored. It was indeed a decision of momentous importance, which heralded what has been described as a major success of the United Nations in the field of disarmament. However, we are disappointed that indications since the extension are that final agreement on an immediate and comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty seems uncertain. If humanity is to maintain any lasting hope for the future, we must act now with courage and decisiveness to achieve a nuclear-free world. In this regard, we call unequivocally for the cessation of nuclear tests of any kind in all environments, and call upon the Conference on Disarmament to work towards the speedy conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty within the shortest possible time. International peace can hardly be maintained in a world in which some men are free while others are under the yoke of colonialism. Being fully aware of that problem and imbued with the idealism that brought this Organization into being, Member States solemnly resolved to remove any vestiges of colonialism from the world. This line of thinking achieved full stature at the United Nations in 1960, when the landmark resolution 1514 (XV), incorporating the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, was adopted. Today, as the world celebrates the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization, its considerable success in the field of decolonization is universally acclaimed. We remember the history of the struggle against colonialism and pay tribute to all those who were part of that struggle. We remain mindful of the sacrifices that made it possible for hundreds of millions of people to achieve self-determination and independence. We commend the work of the Special Committee of 24 for its effective contribution to the application of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. My country has had the honour of serving that Committee — it is, in fact, currently chairing it — and we are proud to have been able to make some contribution to its work and to bringing freedom to a good portion of the human race. In that regard, while we welcome with profound pleasure the State of Palau to this world Organization as the 185th Member, it is my delegation’s view that the task of decolonization remains unfinished. Further concerted and determined action is still required on the part of all involved to win freedom for people who are still unable to exercise their right to self-determination — mostly peoples of small island States, located mainly in the Pacific and Caribbean regions. These territories are confronted with unique problems that require new and innovative solutions geared towards the implementation of the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism by the Year 2000, launched by the General Assembly in 1988. We believe that the situation of these Territories should not be seen as an impediment to the application of the principle of self-determination. The wishes of the people of the Non-Self-Governing Territories are what count most. We appeal for the strengthened and continued support of the administering Powers, whose cooperation with the Special Committee is essential for the progress of the Territories towards self-determination. We count on the support of the specialized agencies and the international community as a whole to continue to assist the Non-Self-Governing Territories in enhancing their standard of living and promoting their self-sufficiency. We also truly believe that our combined and unrelenting efforts will ensure the fulfilment of the promise of freedom, lasting peace, sustained growth and sustainable development for all the people of our planet in accordance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations. My delegation welcomes the successful outcome of the Conference on the Environment and Development in 1992, the World Conference on Human Rights in 1993, the International Conference on Population and Development in 1994, the World Summit for Social Development convened in Copenhagen in 1995 and the recently concluded United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. Referring to the Beijing Conference, we note with satisfaction that the history of the United Nations for the past 50 years has 5 also been one of steady progress for women, from a drive for their civil and political rights to their recognition as equal partners in the broader societal context. We appeal for the urgent implementation of the recommendations, conclusions and decisions adopted in these various international Conferences. We believe that in their realization partly lies the possibility of lasting peace and security, economic progress and social emancipation for all humankind. We note with satisfaction the positive role played by our Organization in facilitating international agreement on thorny issues, whose resolution would certainly have been more difficult, if not impossible, in other forums. In this connection, my delegation welcomes the new Agreements signed at Marrakesh in April last year, establishing the World Trade Organization. However, we stress the need for a continuous assessment of its likely impact on developing countries, especially the least developed among them. We fear that countries which are net importers of food, such as Sierra Leone, might face the prospect of higher food import bills arising from the liberalization of trade in the agricultural sector. Other areas in the Agreements which open up competition between developed and developing countries also need to be constantly reviewed to ensure that the latter do not suffer unduly. Since the end of the cold war, it has become increasingly clear that the United Nations is finding it difficult to deal with the challenges of the post-cold-war era. As we enter the next millennium, we believe it should be a strong, revitalized, effective and purposeful United Nations, able to play its full role as envisaged in its Charter. With democracy taking root among nations, logic and common sense dictate that decisions of the United Nations should also carry the necessary imprint of the collective will of its Members. Indeed, the Security Council, which is charged with the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, should be perceived as legitimate in its decision-making process. My delegation takes the view that a more efficient, transparent and democratic Security Council, embracing the views of a wider sector of the international community, could stand it in good stead to deal with the challenges of the next millennium — challenges which touch humanity generally, rather than individual States which often lack the capacity and the ability to handle them successfully. Such challenges include the problem of drugs, devastating diseases like acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), money laundering, poverty and many more yet unknown. We sincerely hope that the final outcome of the work of the Open-ended Working Group on institutional reforms will adequately address these concerns and offer appropriately bold suggestions and solutions. The relevance of the United Nations after 50 years as an instrument for the peaceful existence and orderly development of every nation no longer requires justification. We commend the Secretary-General and the Secretariat for initiating a restructuring process which will ultimately ensure the enhanced viability and efficiency of our Organization. We also pay tribute to all their predecessors whose own efforts contributed to the survival of the Organization. Member States owe it to posterity to adopt a firm commitment to the provisions of the Charter and not to undermine the credibility of our common Organization. We renew our call for all Member States to be resolute and uncompromising in the quest for global peace, security and social and economic justice as we move into the twenty-first century. Let me, in conclusion, reaffirm my country’s commitment to the United Nations Charter and dedication to the principles which undergird our Organization. Mr. President, Namibia joins the preceding speakers in extending sincere congratulations and best wishes to you upon your unanimous election. This also goes for your esteemed General Committee, of which Namibia is a proud member. This historic session of the General Assembly — marking the golden jubilee of our Organization — coincides with the fifth anniversary of Namibia’s independence, brought about through a long and bitter struggle and the sacrifices of the Namibian people and, no less, in partnership with the United Nations, which played a crucial role in the process of our country’s decolonization. We are filled with immense joy and satisfaction over this happy coincidence. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, my good brother and colleague, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, presided over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly with great skill, wisdom and dedication. I commend him for a job well done and, in particular, for bringing excellence and industry to this important office, all aimed at partnership and development. In this context, Namibia will fully cooperate with the presidency of the General Assembly and the Secretary-General in pursuit of our common objectives that have been assigned to various open-ended working groups aimed at restructuring and strengthening the United Nations. This special commemorative session of the General Assembly will bring together a record number of world leaders including, naturally, the Head of State of the Republic of Namibia, Mr. Sam Nujoma, for a big celebration, collective stock-taking, introspection and reflection, and for renewed commitment to action on the basis of a new vision for the future and rededication towards peace, development, gender equality, tolerance and brotherhood in this, our one global village. The cardinal purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, since its adoption in 1945, have been these: to save lives, to liberate all those everywhere still in bondage, to promote democratic ideals and values, to protect and defend human rights and civil liberties — codified subsequently in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights — and, above all, to protect succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which has wrought so much devastation and human suffering in the world in the course of this century. In furtherance of these purposes and principles and their early realization, our illustrious Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has applied his mind and energy to the challenges of our times by formulating two seminal documents — “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development”. These timely and compelling initiatives call for international cooperation, as well as for the allocation of new and additional resources. Indeed, they also place domestic obligations on Governments and civil societies alike. Specifically, in the context of the fiftieth anniversary session of the General Assembly, the Secretary-General has submitted a comprehensive annual report, complete with focused recommendations for action on various fronts. Namibia therefore pays a well-deserved tribute to the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts in the service of the United Nations and for fresh initiatives to further advance peace and development in the world. Reviewing history and past achievements, on this occasion marking the fiftieth anniversary of the United 5 Nations, is necessarily in order. At the same time, however, balancing present challenges and opportunities requires leadership, vision, commitment and courage on the part of world leaders. Let us hope that this commemorative session will show the way forward and achieve the desired objectives. The most important of all the commitments that the global community must fulfil is to use the collective political will and resources of the States Members the United Nations “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”. This is the soul of the Charter of the United Nations. Today, the world is united behind the promotion of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. Let me, however, hasten to add that the eradication of poverty on a sustainable basis, through the provision of adequate education, health care, employment and housing and the empowerment of women, needs to be placed at the top of the priority list of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, which have been playing a vital role in social and economic development. With the hindsight of 50 years, we know that the United Nations was at the start, and remains today, more than a mere response to the horrors and circumstances of the Second World War and its tormenting legacies. It is a sacred trust of life itself and an indispensable vehicle for the preservation of civilization, in the interests of all nations and peoples. One of those tormenting legacies was the cold war. The hopes and expectations of millions the world over were held hostage for decades by the politics of confrontation and the division of the world into hostile military blocs and rival ideological camps. This resulted in the derailing of the purposes and objectives for which the United Nations stands. The arms race and espionage, as well as competing alignments, seriously sapped the vital resources, time and energies of nations, creating more and more hotbeds of tension, thus militating against peaceful coexistence and mutually beneficial inter-State relations. Fortunately, a nuclear holocaust was averted. A third world war did not happen. But violence, distrust and military build-up characterized world affairs for a very long time. During this dangerous period the planet Earth teetered on the brink of a ghastly disaster. In the face of all this, men and women of peace, wisdom and compassion, from all corners of the Earth, kept raising voices of reason and appealing for sanity, disarmament and dialogue. Decolonization is perhaps the most laudable achievement of the United Nations. The world witnessed an unprecedented and unstoppable wave of demands, by millions the world over, for freedom and the exercise of the right to self-determination. This, happily, led to the achievement of independence by so many countries in Asia, Latin America — especially the Caribbean — and Africa, which swelled the membership of the United Nations beyond 100. Today the number of Members, at 185, is more than three times the original number — the 51 founding nations of 1945. In Namibia, the moment came for the United Nations to put its resources where its convictions and responsibilities were. It demonstrated its firm commitment by providing necessary funds and technical capacity to the United Nations Transition Assistance Group (UNTAG), which facilitated Namibia’s smooth transition to nationhood in 1990. This success story stands out today as a model of successful United Nations peace-keeping and decolonization. Other major United Nations success stories followed — in Cambodia, El Salvador, Mozambique and Haiti. We hope for the same positive outcome in Angola and other places. In all these cases, what ensured success was a combination of political consensus, peace-keeping, peace enforcement and humanitarian assistance. It has been said many times in so many ways that if the United Nations had not existed, collective yearning to create it would have been irresistible. That is why Namibia attaches great importance to its membership of the United Nations. Since joining the United Nations, Namibia has been playing an active role in all the activities of the Organization. Namibia participated in the peace-keeping operation in Cambodia and sent election observers to Angola under United Nations auspices. Namibia also sent a legal expert as a rapporteur to represent the Human Rights Commission in Somalia. But more than that, Namibia has been paying its assessed and voluntary contributions on time and in full, for we believe membership is not enough: without resources the Organization cannot carry out its mandate. 6 As we look towards the next millennium, I should like to state the position of the Government of the Republic of Namibia on the following issues: regional cooperation; international economic cooperation; major United Nations conferences; nuclear disarmament; and reform of the United Nations. Regional cooperation: in southern Africa, member States of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), which now includes Mauritius, have combined their efforts to bring about genuine reconstruction and development in our subregion. Peace is a prerequisite of development. Without sustainable development, there can be neither peace nor stability. While achievement of peace has created favourable conditions for socio-economic development in southern Africa, the scars of apartheid and destabilization remain. For example, to realize these objectives, States members of SADC have decided to pool their resources in order to implement joint projects in the fields of energy and water. With this in mind, several protocols were signed at the recent SADC Summit in Johannesburg. Additional areas in which SADC member States are coordinating their policies include de-mining, combating crime, gun-running, drug-trafficking, money-laundering, illicit cross-border trade, and other forms of criminal activity. It is hoped that these efforts will lead to an ideal situation allowing for free movement of people, capital, goods and services, thereby transforming SADC into a community of shared experiences and aspirations. Moreover, mechanisms for conflict resolution, political consultation and peace-keeping are enjoying high priority among these regional concerns. I felt reinforced after listening to the inspiring statement delivered this morning by my brother and colleague, His Excellency, Mr. Alfred Nzo, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of South Africa. May I reassure him here of Namibia’s firm commitment to continue working closely with the Government and people of South Africa for the achievement of genuine peace, stability, development and prosperity throughout southern Africa. The completion of the Trans-Caprivi and Trans- Kalahari highways connecting land-locked neighbouring countries to the Namibian port of Walvis Bay will further strengthen regional cooperation, trade and integration. We do all this pursuant to the letter and spirit of the Abuja Treaty establishing the African Economic Community. There is no doubt that a successful SADC will strengthen the African Economic Community. On international economic cooperation, Namibia subscribes to the view, emphasized by the Economic and Social Council at its last meeting, that development cannot flourish in the midst of conflict and instability. It follows from this that mutually beneficial economic cooperation is not possible as long as an unjust international economic system exists. Until we all become equal partners in the global economy, developing countries, especially African countries, will for ever remain underdeveloped. Contrary to the views being expressed in some quarters, Namibia maintains that the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization have played a vital and constructive role in assisting developing countries. The strengthening of South-South cooperation is more than ever a vehicle that is needed for the enhancement of the trade and economic development of the countries of the South. Namibia therefore supports the South Centre and appeals for financial and material contributions to its programmes. It is also Namibia’s firm belief that the recently inaugurated African-Latin American Institute, with regional headquarters in Namibia and Uruguay respectively, will further strengthen South-South cooperation. Namibia also welcomes the emerging initiatives aimed at encouraging horizontal dialogue and cooperation among SADC, the Association of South-East Asian Nations, the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR) and other economic groupings of the countries of the South. As regards major United Nations conferences, we may say that never before in the history of our Organization have the social needs of humankind taken centre stage. Humanity has recognized that conservation of the environment is tantamount to preservation of human life; respect for and protection of human rights is the basis for democracy, good governance and development; addressing population issues within the framework of development is necessary in order to identify the impact of socio-demographic trends on the well-being of people; peace is not only the absence of war but also a necessary condition for the attainment of social and economic development; and gender equality is central to development and peace. 7 The realization of the commitments made at all these conferences should form the centrepiece of the agenda for the twenty-first century. For Namibia, protection of the environment is enshrined in our Constitution. The promotion and defence of democracy and human rights have become the vital pillars of Namibia’s Government and society. In keeping with the Programme of Action adopted at the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, Namibia has fully integrated population issues into its First National Development Plan. Similarly, the commitments we made at the World Summit for Social Development continue to be a top priority of the Government. The Law Reform Commission is finalizing recommendations to the Namibian Parliament for enactment of the necessary legislation. Namibia is proud of its contribution to the preparation for the Fourth World Conference on Women and the honour bestowed upon its delegation to serve as Rapporteur-General at that Conference, in Beijing. It therefore goes without saying that Namibia will do everything possible to ensure implementation of the Platform for Action adopted at the Conference. The scientific and technological achievements of humankind should be used for peace and development. All weapons of mass destruction must be destroyed. The time has come for complete nuclear disarmament. Furthermore, Namibia calls upon the nuclear-weapon States to fulfil the commitment made at the last Conference on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to move speedily towards the destruction of all nuclear weapons. In this regard, Namibia deplores the new spate of nuclear testing. Namibia will continue to participate actively towards the early completion of the draft treaty of the denuclearization of Africa. With regard to United Nations reform, Namibia believes that the decision-making machinery of the Security Council, as it exists today, cannot effectively serve the international community in the twentieth century. The phenomenal numerical growth in the membership of the United Nations must be reflected in representation on the Security Council. The reform, restructuring and enlargement of the Security Council should reflect the cardinal principles of sovereign equality of all States, universality, democracy and transparency. It is only in this way that the authority, legitimacy, credibility and effectiveness of the Security Council can be ensured. Namibia sees no problem in the addition of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council. But at the same time, it is Namibia’s strong view that Africa, Asia and Latin America are entitled to representation as permanent members as well as through the allocation of additional seats in the Security Council for non-permanent members. What we seek is the acceptance of the principle. The mechanism of how to bring this about is the subject of ongoing consultations in the relevant Open-ended Working Group. The new world order has no place, in Namibia’s view, for the outmoded veto power, and it must be abolished. The new world order, which is thought of as offering the best hope for economic cooperation and free trade, should liberate itself from the remaining shackles of the cold war and replace confrontation with dialogue wherever differences still exist. Namibia welcomes the latest agreement on Palestinian self-rule, signed between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority. We look forward to the early achievement of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in the Middle East, leading to the establishment of a Palestinian State. The decolonization of Africa is not yet complete. Namibia therefore supports the early exercise by the Saharan people of their right to self-determination on the basis of a free, fair and transparent referendum in Western Sahara, under the joint supervision and control of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity. There can be no military solution to the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina conflict. Therefore, Namibia urges all parties involved to end the suffering of their people and find a lasting and peaceful political solution to that conflict. As the year comes to an end, it is heartening to note that the conflict in Liberia has been resolved with the establishment of a broad-based, multi-party provisional Government. We welcome this wholeheartedly. Let us hope that this is a good omen for the resolution of the conflicts in Somalia, Sudan, Burundi and Sierra Leone. Since the signing of the Lusaka Protocol on Angola last year, the peace process in that sisterly country is 8 making steady progress. The spirit of reconciliation and dialogue is permeating the entire society, encouraged by the regular face-to-face talks between President José Eduardo dos Santos of Angola and Mr. Jonas Savimbi of UNITA. It is Namibia’s sincere hope that the pledges made in Brussels at the recent round-table conference on Angola will be translated into actual resources for reconstruction and development in that country, a neighbour of ours. Africa is long overdue to root out, once and for all, all the criminal activities of mercenaries, which, like acts of terrorism, stand condemned in the resolutions of both the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity. The latest coup on one of the islands of the Comoros has made this an extremely serious matter which now calls for urgent action by the international community. Namibia therefore welcomes the action taken to restore the Government and law and order on the island. The address His Holiness Pope John Paul II delivered from this rostrum yesterday was a thoughtful message conveying optimism, hope and good will as we stand on the threshold of the next millennium. The Pope stressed universal love and family, subjects which embrace the entire human race. Let me conclude by expressing my sincere wish that this historic commemorative session of the General Assembly will not fail to highlight public awareness of the work of the United Nations and the continued relevance of the Organization to the lives of individuals and communities everywhere. The vision of the founders 50 years ago focused on the welfare and security of succeeding generations. Nations and peoples, as represented by non- governmental organizations, should move forward together into the next millennium for a better world in which children will feel safer. I should like at the outset to convey to you, Sir, my most cordial and sincere congratulations on your election as President of the Assembly. Both Spain, Portugal’s sister country, and the European Union, on behalf of which I have the honour to address the Assembly today, are confident that your work will meet with the greatest success. I am firmly convinced that your experience as an eminent professor of international law and your thorough knowledge of international relations will contribute decisively to the Assembly’s achieving its ambitious goals. I should like also to thank Minister Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire for the excellent manner in which he conducted our deliberations during the previous session of the Assembly. Likewise, I wish to express my appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, together with my congratulations on the work he has accomplished throughout his mandate. In order to speed up the work of the Assembly, I intend to shorten my statement, the complete text of which will be published in a separate document. I am addressing this Assembly on behalf of the European Union, whose membership has increased to 15 States since the beginning of this year, thereby reinforcing its capacity to fulfil its commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The European Union, fully aware of the complex challenges faced by the international community, wishes to reiterate its full support for our Organization as a universal forum for realizing humankind’s aspirations to peace and security and economic and social progress. Against this background, the European Council, at its meeting in Cannes on 26 and 27 June, paid tribute, in a solemn declaration, to the work of our Organization and to the half-century’s activities of the United Nations. In a few weeks the Heads of State and Government of the entire world will solemnly commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of our Organization. Although this occasion will give us an opportunity to assess the work accomplished by the Organization over the course of its already long history, we must above all reflect on the best way of preparing the United Nations to meet effectively the challenges facing us at the end of this century. Let me recall, with regard to this moment in the existence of the United Nations, a thought expressed by Jean Monnet in respect of the European Community, when the latter was taking its first steps: “This is only a stage towards the forms of organization of the world of tomorrow.” Indeed, the disappearance of old rivalries has not meant the end of conflicts. Today we are witnessing ethnic and nationalistic conflicts and humanitarian crises of frightening proportions; a worsening of economic inequalities; contempt for human rights; the systematic violation of the rules of international humanitarian law; genocide; the risk of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; and the alarming deterioration of the environment. These are some of the most serious problems we face today. They affect us all, and we must all make a commitment to solve them. Although, as usual, a number of issues of concern to the European Union are dealt with in detail in the memorandum distributed as an integral part of this statement, I should like to highlight some questions that are especially important to us: the situation in the former Yugoslavia, developments in Africa and the peace process in the Middle East. The European Union continues to attach priority importance to reaching a negotiated, just and lasting peace in the conflict that is ravaging the territory of the former Yugoslavia. In this regard, we express our full support for the diplomatic process currently under way and our satisfaction at its initial results at the meeting held in Geneva on 8 September last. We believe that the United Nations forces in the territories of the former Yugoslavia have played, and continue to play, a fundamental role. Member States of the European Union are among the main troop contributors to these forces. I wish here to pay tribute to the United Nations forces and pay homage to the soldiers who have fallen in the cause of peace, many of them citizens of the European Union. The European Union has contributed substantially to alleviating the tremendous suffering that the war in the former Yugoslavia, and particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has inflicted upon the population. I wish to express our firm commitment to continue providing humanitarian assistance, both bilaterally and through the relevant United Nations organs and agencies. After more than three years of bloody conflict, the latest developments in the peace process allow us to look ahead with more hope. In this process, which we hope is near at hand, the European Union intends to play a role commensurate to its commitments in all aspects of the implementation of the peace process, and in particular with regard to reconstruction efforts. Violence has destroyed property, but above all it has taken human lives and destroyed peaceful coexistence. Our main task will thus be to restore hope and offer decent living conditions to those who are still suffering the consequences of this catastrophe. The European Union is aware of the great challenges facing Africa. Proof of our concern is that we are working to find peaceful solutions to the conflict in Rwanda and to the conflict in Burundi, beginning with the priority problem of the return of refugees. We support the urgent convening of a conference, under United Nations auspices, aimed at peace and stability in the Great Lakes region. Likewise, we support the initiatives for social and political reconstruction in countries such as Angola and Mozambique, and we welcome the work accomplished by our Organization in Angola, which, following the Lusaka peace agreement, has allowed for the establishment of the third United Nations Angola Verification Mission UNAVEM III. We also favour a more active role for the Organization of African Unity in the prevention and solution of conflicts in Africa, and we are considering ways of supporting the establishment of effective mechanisms for preventive diplomacy and peace-keeping. The European Union is also following the spread of and respect for human rights throughout the continent, and we are very much aware of the dire need of some African countries. Since the revision of the Fourth Lomé Convention, the European Union has attached particular relevance to humanitarian and food assistance, and we have made an effort to update our various development cooperation programmes. The European Union has always strongly supported the peace process in the Middle East, initiated at the 1991 Conference held in Madrid. We warmly welcome the Interim Agreement reached recently by Israel and the Palestinian National Authority, which represents a new and important milestone in this process, and we look forward to the signing of the Agreement this coming Thursday. Likewise, we are confident that in the coming months we will see significant progress in the Syrian and Lebanese negotiating tracks, and that the whole region, which has already suffered enormously, will finally enter 2 into the dynamics of a comprehensive, just, stable and long- lasting peace. The European Union attaches paramount importance to the work carried out by our Organization in general, and in particular by the Assembly, in favour of peace in the Middle East. That is why one of our objectives in the session now beginning is to ensure that the various resolutions adopted by the Assembly on the situation in the Middle East contribute directly to the peace process, following the guidelines established in previous years. I do not wish to conclude this first part of my statement without a reference to the work of the United Nations in Latin America. Its presence in Nicaragua through the United Nations Observer Group in Central America (ONUCA), the United Nations Observer Mission for the Verification of Electoral Process in Nicaragua (ONUVEN) and the International Commission for Support and Verification allowed for national reconciliation and the holding of elections. The mediation between the parties and the work of the United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador (ONUSAL) led to the historic achievement of ending the long and terrible civil conflict in El Salvador, which culminated in the Chapultepec Agreements of January 1992. Today the presence of the Mission, which has the support of the European Union, contributes effectively to overcoming the obstacles that still persist. In Haiti, the multinational force and the United Nations Mission in Haiti (UNMIH) played a fundamental role in the restoration of democracy and in the reconstruction of the country. In Guatemala, the United Nations role as moderator and the work of the United Nations Mission for the Verification of Human Rights and of Compliance with the Commitments of the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights in Guatemala (MINUGUA) have brought about substantive agreements on such important issues as human rights, displaced persons and indigenous populations, which we are confident will lead to a speedy solution to the conflict. The participation of international observers in the coming elections in November, supported by the European Union, seems to us an effective formula. All these achievements have been realized with the invaluable help of the various Groups of Friends and the support of the international community. Conscious of the universality of the challenges that lie ahead for the Organization, the European Union attaches fundamental importance to the adoption of measures allowing for the success and proper functioning of the United Nations in implementing the mandates entrusted to it by the Member States. In this respect, the Organization’s serious financial crisis, unprecedented in its history, seriously endangers the United Nations capacity for action and is a source of great concern for the European Union. Our Organization will become powerless if it does not receive the necessary political support from its Member States and the resources provided by them, particularly through the full, punctual and unconditional payment of their financial contributions, in accordance with the obligations established by the Charter. Therefore, resolving the Organization’s financial crisis is a priority objective for the European Union, which overall is the main contributor, both to the regular budget and to the peace-keeping operations budgets. This constructive attitude is what led to the participation of the European Union in the work of the High-level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations. Our objective is to reach a consensus as soon as possible — preferably during this session — on the adoption of specific measures to bring about an improvement in the Organization’s financial situation. The European Union wishes to underline the increasingly urgent need to adopt a global package of measures to solve the United Nations grave financial situation. These measures should contemplate, inter alia, a possible review of the scale of assessments so that it would reflect as accurately as possible the principle of the capacity to pay, as well as the establishment of incentives and disincentives to encourage all Member States to comply with their financial obligations. The Agenda for Development (A/48/935), submitted last year by the Secretary-General, identified the five dimensions of development: peace as the foundation, the economy as the engine of progress, the environment as a basis for sustainability, justice as a pillar of society and democracy as good governance. The European Union attaches the greatest importance to the completion, before the end of the session that is now beginning, of a substantial and innovative agenda for 3 development, in which it is made clear that peace cannot be built without at the same time promoting the social and economic progress of the poorest people. Through the decisions taken by the European Council held in Cannes, to which I have already referred, the European Union has made clear its determination to contribute yet greater financial resources for development aid, within the framework of both the Lomé Convention — in the case of the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries — and through financial cooperation with our Mediterranean partners and friends. Throughout this session of the Assembly we shall pay special attention to the results of the important cycle of major conferences held over recent years under the aegis of the United Nations for discussion of various subjects linked to development and human progress. We need the Economic and Social Council to play a more vigorous and more central role within the system; we must ensure that the work of the Assembly and of the Council are complementary, avoiding all duplication. During this session the results of the World Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen, will be submitted to the Assembly. The European Union firmly intends actively to consider these results, with a view to identifying appropriate measures to ensure the follow-up and implementation of the commitments undertaken at Copenhagen. We must not allow the platforms of action adopted at United Nations conferences to remain unimplemented. The Fourth World Conference on Women ended in Beijing only a few days ago. The Declaration and Platform for Action adopted at the Conference are a step forward, backed by the results of previous United Nations conferences, on the road towards the achievement of equality, development and peace. These objectives were set out in the strategies for the advancement of women adopted in Nairobi 10 years ago. The European Union has worked actively to achieve consolidation of the results of the Vienna Conference on Human Rights, in the field of human rights and fundamental liberties of women, and of the Cairo Conference on Population and Development. The Platform for Action adopted in Beijing as a result of such concern includes important progress in human rights, notably the right of women to control and decide freely and responsibly on matters related to their sexuality, including sexual and reproductive health, without coercion, discrimination or violence. Only three years before the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the international community cannot yet be entirely satisfied with the progress achieved. This session will provide us once again with an opportunity to take stock of the situation regarding human rights and fundamental freedoms in the world, two years after the important headway made at the Vienna World Conference. It is increasingly evident that respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms plays a critical role in avoiding potential conflicts. We must therefore acknowledge the value of human rights in preventive diplomacy. Some of the serious conflicts which have recently darkened the international scene are inflicting great suffering on the civilian population, as illustrated by the alarming number of displaced persons and refugees. In this regard, the European Union wishes to reiterate its support for the immense task being performed by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in this field. At the same time, we are conscious of the harmful effects of ethnic and religious discrimination on the emergence and development of such conflicts, and we reaffirm our conviction with regard to the need to move further in the adoption of measures to fight racism, racial discrimination and xenophobia. The level of resources assigned by the Organization to the promotion and protection of human rights — today a mere 1.7 per cent of its regular budget — continues to be totally inadequate. A significant increase in those resources would have a positive impact on related areas, especially on activities designed to assist development. It is increasingly clear that development, human rights and democracy are interlinked, as was stated in the 1986 Declaration on the Right to Development. Furthermore, the European Union attaches great importance to the role and activities of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and wishes once again to draw the Assembly’s attention to the pressing need to provide that Office with the human and financial resources required for the proper accomplishment of its tasks. We likewise support the Organization’s efforts to enhance the role and functions of the Centre for Human Rights in Geneva, under the supervision of the High Commissioner. 4 The International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia and the International Tribunal for Rwanda are essential factors in the struggle against the impunity of those who violate human rights. The experience of these ad hoc tribunals will undoubtedly help the work of a future international criminal court, for which a draft statute was drawn up by the International Law Commission and submitted to the Assembly’s Sixth Committee at its last session. Mankind is facing a growing number of humanitarian emergencies that require an effective response from the international community in order to alleviate the tragedy being suffered daily by tens of thousands of human beings. The establishment of the Department of Humanitarian Affairs has been an outstanding contribution to the international efforts for humanitarian assistance, a field in which the often hazardous work of non-governmental organizations is also of paramount importance. We deem it essential to implement the decision taken this year by the Economic and Social Council on the need to review and reinforce the capacity of the United Nations system in the area of humanitarian assistance. There is a need to enhance cooperation between all organizations and people, in such a way that their respective contributions may be mutually complemented and strengthened, duplication of work avoided, and a humanitarian continuum ensured. We have witnessed important events this year in the field of the environment and in the implementation of the Rio agreements of 1992. Special mention should be made of the positive outcome of the Conferences of the parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity and the framework Convention on Climate Change, the opening for signature of the Convention to Combat Desertification, and the establishment of the Intergovernmental Panel on Forests under the aegis of the Commission for Sustainable Development. We welcome those developments and reiterate our determination to continue working, within the Organization, towards greater cooperation in the field of the environment. The United Nations Charter confers upon the Organization the principal task of maintaining international peace and security and entrusts that major responsibility to the Security Council. The Security Council must continue to be the decision- making centre for issues that affect world security and must constantly adapt to currently existing situations in order to strengthen the mechanisms set forth in the Charter itself. The Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council continued its work during previous sessions of the Assembly. The members of the European Union participated actively in that work, and will continue to do so in the future. The European Union holds the view that peace- keeping operations and missions of preventive diplomacy are and should continue to be the focal point of the Security Council’s action in favour of world peace and security. We welcome the updating of the Agenda for Peace submitted by the Secretary-General at the beginning of this year. I would remind the Assembly of the European Union’s commitment to United Nations peace-keeping operations, illustrated by the fact that the Union as a whole is not only the main financial contributor to these operations, providing 37 per cent of the total budget, but also the main provider of personnel. The European Union stands firmly behind this substantial commitment to the Organization’s peace-keeping endeavours. We have all suffered heavy casualties in these operations, and it is of the utmost importance that every possible step be taken to ensure the safety of United Nations personnel in peace- keeping missions. Cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations in peace-keeping endeavours should continue to be explored to optimize the use of material and human resources and to put the mandates entrusted to those missions into practice in the quickest, most efficient and successful way.As an example of the activity of the regional organizations in this field, let me mention that on our continent the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has already developed a mechanism, still at an embryonic stage, for preventive diplomacy, the establishment of confidence- building measures and the resolution of conflicts. Acting on an initiative of the European Union, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) decided at the Budapest Summit last year to reinforce cooperation with the United Nations and with the trans-Atlantic organizations. 5 Furthermore, the European Union is studying with interest the proposal for stand-by arrangements. To that end, the Union supports the proposals for headquarters of a permanent nature, as well as for the United Nations stand- by forces system, and we are studying with interest other proposals which aim at improving the rapid reaction capability of the United Nations with a view to shortening the period for establishing a peace operation and facilitating its subsequent deployment. The European Union welcomes the great step forward recently taken within our Organization by the decision to extend the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) indefinitely. This is fundamental progress in the entire disarmament process and the pursuit of nuclear non-proliferation. The decision adopted and the strengthening of the inspection procedure and the principles and objectives of disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation constitute an enormous step in the right direction. We also welcome the steady pace of the negotiations for a comprehensive test-ban treaty, which the European Union hopes and is confident will be concluded in 1996 at the latest. We must now focus our efforts on the universalization of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The European Union invites all States that have not yet done so to become signatories of the NPT. Another European Union priority in the field of nuclear disarmament is the finalization of a treaty banning the production of fissile material for the manufacture of nuclear weapons and explosives. The European Union regrets that the Conference on Disarmament has not yet been able to set up an ad hoc committee to begin negotiations on this issue. Once again, we appeal to all States that signed the Convention of the Banning of the Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and their Destruction to proceed to ratify it so that it may come into force as soon as possible. Furthermore, the control and limitation of the use of certain conventional weapons is also cause for concern for the European Union. Through its common action, the Union aims to continue to encourage the activities of the United Nations in its fight against the devastating effects of anti- personnel mines in many territories around the world. Also in the field of conventional disarmament, we will pay special attention to the results of the Review Conference of the 1980 Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or To Have Indiscriminate Effects, in order to render it more effective and to widen its scope. We believe in the United Nations. We believe in the universality, binding character and supremacy of international law, which is the result of the development of relations among nations and consensus among peoples. The European Union gives its unconditional support to the Organization’s ideals and actions. We are sure that these first 50 years are but the first stage in an unprecedented task that presents no other alternative, given that its chief goal — that of assuring that we all live together in peace, as well as the comprehensive development of human beings — can be attained only through disinterested cooperation among peoples. At the outset I have pleasure in extending to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral and to his friendly country, Portugal, my sincere congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly for this session, which marks the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, when the Organization is celebrating its golden jubilee. In wishing Mr. Freitas do Amaral success in conducting the proceedings of this session, I assure him of my delegation’s readiness to cooperate fully with him towards achieving the desired objectives. I should like also to take this opportunity to express my thanks and appreciation to Mr. Freitas do Amaral’s predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, for his dedicated and sincere efforts in guiding the proceedings of the last session. It is also a pleasure to express my deep appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts to enhance the international Organization’s standing and role and to enable it to carry out its great responsibilities and tasks. The United Nations was established 50 years ago with the purpose of becoming the effective means of saving humanity from the scourge of war which had plagued the century. The Organization was also designed to serve as a mechanism aimed at developing a new international order based on justice and equality for all and the promotion of human and cultural interaction amongst the world’s various peoples in the framework of a secure international community. States and peoples, in their desire for security, stability and cooperation, supported the principles enshrined in the Charter, including those which call for ensuring the sovereign equality of and mutual respect between States, refraining from the threat or use of force, entrenching the principles of settling disputes by peaceful means, respecting every State’s territorial integrity, and refraining from interfering in the internal affairs of others. Guided by these principles, the United Nations has achieved numerous accomplishments at the political, economic and social levels. Many nations and peoples, with the support of the United Nations, have been able to achieve political independence, attain their legitimate rights and implement development programmes. The 50 year experience of the United Nations embodies profound indications of the future of a changing world in which the enormous interacting developments have not yet reached the limit. The most prominent among those signs is, perhaps, the end of the era of confrontation between East and West at a time when the human race is on the threshold of a new century. The profound significance of these developments is that the prevailing political climate has given rise to a situation that favours the correcting of certain trends in international relations and their development in a manner that takes into account the new circumstances and changes in several regions of the world. In the context of these historical premises, world Powers have been concerned that changes might lead them to proceed in disparate directions which, it was feared, would make it difficult for the international community to check the unrestrained pace of the changes so engendered and control their effects on world peace and security. Thus it becomes essential to develop a balancing strategy for joint international action, especially now that interdependence and multilateralism must form the basis of cooperation in international relations. 18 This political reality was given expression on 31 January 1992, when the Security Council — for the first time — held a meeting at the level of Heads of State and Government. The Council then requested the Secretary- General to prepare a report containing analyses and recommendations concerning ways of enhancing and strengthening the capabilities of the United Nations in the areas of preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace- keeping. Recently, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the Secretary-General has submitted the important “Supplement to An Agenda for Peace'”, in which he set out his views and thoughts as a contribution to the continuous drive to enhance the Organization’s capability to face up to threats to international peace and security. The significance of this new tendency was underscored during the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 and its Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, Agenda 21 as well as in many other important international conventions relating to development and the environment. It was further confirmed during the International Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo last year. Both the World Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen, and the Fourth World Conference on Women, held recently in Beijing, confirmed the principle of interdependence and recognized its importance. These world conferences and meetings have made the United Nations a global forum for the international politics of multilateralism. Efforts are now being directed towards addressing the problems of the future, such as environmental pollution and population explosion, in addition to economic and social crises and other dilemmas of a universal character. This increasing tendency to act in accordance with the principles of interdependence and multilateralism is undoubtedly a positive one that is in consonance with the purposes of the Charter. However, certain aspects of the current international situation raise a number of fundamental questions concerning the role of the United Nations and its influence on the current developments on the international scene which serve as pointers to the shape of future relations between States. Such questioning includes, for example: How will the Organization steer a course amid the new features of the modern political topography which is changing due to incessant strategic changes of international policies? How will the major Powers identify the role of the United Nations in the area of interdependence and international multilateralism? And how will they deal with crises in areas of high tension around the world? It is obvious that such questioning has to do, in essence, with two fundamental issues. The first is the future of collective security, as envisioned in the Charter, for the remaining part of this century and during the next century. The second is the mechanism for international economic and social cooperation to which the major industrial States will agree. A search into the legacy of the United Nations during half a century leads us to say that these two issues will constitute the major characteristics of international relations in the twenty-first century. The problem of the realpolitik policies pursued by the Powers that influence the formulation of international relations is that they do not seem to be in harmony with the principle of collective security. The problem of international economic and social cooperation lies in the fact that the concepts of economic and social development held by the wealthy industrialized countries are at variance with those of the developing countries vis-à-vis the economic and social aspects of development issues. In our view, this difference of outlook creates obstacles that not only impede the implementation and development of international cooperation but also affect the manner in which economic and social problems are dealt with. The two issues of collective security and international economic and social cooperation should be accorded an increasing importance since they embody the solid foundation of stability and progress in a world that is in a state of flux. The need to attach such importance to those two issues arises from the fact that, for over 50 years, the international community has not been able to reach consensus on how to put into practice the principle of collective security in line with the vision of the Charter. In so far as international economic and social cooperation is concerned, the North-South dialogue has not led to any positive result in over three decades. Given this fact, the world has to evolve new perceptions on how to address the issues of collective security and international economic and social cooperation in the context of a practical perspective that takes into account the new changes that have taken place in the world. In our view, it is possible, once the international community musters the necessary political will, to put 19 into practice important aspects of the principle of collective security along the following lines: The creation of a mechanism that meets on a regular basis within the framework of the Security Council to monitor and detect threats to world peace and security. The development and better use of the mechanisms of preventive diplomacy in preventing, containing or pre-empting conflicts before they develop into serious hostilities. The development, in all seriousness, of the ideas and concepts embodied in Chapter VII of the Charter, in the light of the international community’s experience, to become the basis of dealing with aggression as it arises. The utilization of the capabilities of regional organizations in the context of United Nations cooperation with such organizations in the maintenance of world peace and security. As regards international economic and social cooperation, this too requires the existence of the political will, especially on the part of the wealthy industrialized countries, to create an equitable global economic environment that may contribute to the achievement of stability and prosperity for all States and peoples. We believe that the gap which exists, in the areas of economic growth and social advancement, between the wealthy industrialized countries, with their enormous economic resources, and the developing countries, is among the most chronic and significant problems that face the international community. Regrettably, the commitments to implement the development policies and strategies agreed upon in the United Nations with a view to narrowing that gap have not been honoured. It goes without saying that the United Nations will not be able to discharge its mandate in an environment fraught with disparities, because the poverty, unemployment and lack of productive employment that are rampant throughout the world are negative factors in the area of development. Proceeding from its awareness of this reality, the United Nations has convened the World Summit on Social Development in Copenhagen to address the urgent and serious issues of social development that face mankind. We believe that the implementation of the policies set out in the Summit’s Declaration and Programme of Action should take place within the context of the religious principles, national legislation, customs and traditions of every State. It is essential at this stage to reopen the dialogue within the United Nations system between developed and developing countries concerning all development matters, on the basis of the commitments set out in the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation and the International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade. To that end, a new and practical development plan has to be adopted with a view to ensuring compliance with the decisions of the various United Nations development conferences, so that the desired objectives of those decisions may be achieved. We are convinced that international cooperation could be enhanced and strengthened through the adoption of policies leading to the activation of the United Nations role in the area of economic and social cooperation by means of addressing such world problems as development and environment. Also, world trade mechanisms should be developed in accordance with the common interests of States and in an equitable manner that takes into account the requirements of development and the economic problems of the developing countries, accords due attention to the socio-political aspects of the economic problems that beset those countries and aims at consolidating the foundations of their economic security. Notwithstanding its accomplishments, on the one hand, and, on the other, the obstacles and failures it has encountered for reasons beyond its control, the United Nations now finds itself facing a new challenge. This new challenge forces it to deal with crises and problems caused by ethnic, national and even religious and cultural conflicts and clashes between parties that belonged to States and territories which had originally been unified in accordance with agreements reached in the wake of this century’s wars. In view of the tense regional and international atmosphere caused by the eruption of those heretofore dormant volcanoes and the ensuing changes brought about by such eruption, it has become essential to enhance the role of the United Nations and provide it with the necessary means of dealing effectively with such crises and resolving them before they develop into devastating wars between the sons of this or that country such as those we now witness in Afghanistan, Somalia, the Balkans and other parts of the world where peoples are suffering destruction and destitution. 20 In addition to the new issues that the United Nations now faces in the wake of the cold war, there is a host of regional and international questions that continue to be cause for concern and require the attention of our Organization. Top of the list is the situation in the Gulf region which, in the recent past, witnessed two destructive wars whose consequences continue to affect adversely the region’s political and economic conditions and to jeopardize its security and stability. Proceeding from our eagerness to preserve security and stability in this vital region of the world, we call upon all parties to pay heed to its importance as an area where international interests criss- cross and as an area of strategic importance to world trade. In the light of these facts, we stress the need for Iraq to comply with Security Council resolutions concerning the State of Kuwait and the release of Kuwaiti and other prisoners of war and detainees. While we call upon Iraq to respond fully to the behests of international legality, we must voice our concern over the territorial integrity, sovereignty and unity of Iraq which must be preserved and express sympathy with the brotherly Iraqi people who endure difficult economic and social conditions that should end once their causes cease to exist. The persistence of the dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran over the question of sovereignty over the islands of Abu Mousa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb is regrettable in view of its adverse effects on the Gulf region’s security and stability. Consequently, Bahrain calls upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond to the United Arab Emirates call to seek a solution to the question of the islands through serious bilateral talks, or by any of the other peaceful means that are available for the settlement of disputes between States by mutual consent. The Middle East has embarked on a new historical phase wherein optimism holds sway with the adoption of the principle of negotiation and respect for law as a means to settle disputes between States instead of war, violence and occupation of territories by force. The peace process in the Middle East has taken significant steps since the historic Washington meeting 13 September 1993, which resulted in the signing of the Agreement on Principles between the Palestinians and Israel. It was followed by the signing of the Peace Treaty between Jordan and Israel on 26 October 1994 and the signing of the second phase of the Agreement of Principles on the expansion of Palestinian self-rule between the Palestinians and Israel in Washington on 28 September 1995. The sparkle of optimism that has glittered on the horizon should not be allowed to die out as a result of the Israeli settlement policies that aim at changing the demography of the occupied Arab territories, particularly Al-Quds, in order to create a new reality. Bahrain welcomes these steps and reaffirms its support for the Middle East peace process. It also supports the endeavours and efforts that aim at reaching a just, comprehensive and durable solution based on the principle of land for peace as well as Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). Proceeding from this, Bahrain reaffirms its support for the position taken by the Syrian Arab Republic regarding the restoration of its full sovereignty over its territories in the Syrian Golan that has been occupied since 1967. It is also important that the peace process should be reactivated on the Lebanese track and that Israel should be compelled to comply with Security Council resolution 425 (1978). For if peace is to prevail, it should include all parties without exception. We appeal to all the parties involved in the dispute in Somalia to allow the creation of a secure climate that is conducive to the continuation of political efforts and humanitarian activities. Such continuation depends on the cooperation of those parties and on their adherence to the principle of dialogue and understanding in order to achieve a political settlement that would ensure the restoration of peace, security and stability to this sister nation. The State of Bahrain has, from the beginning, followed with utmost attention and deepest concern the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, along with all the human tragedies and injustices resulting from the policies of aggression and criminal acts, including killings, deportations and ethnic cleansing, committed by the Serb aggressors against the people of Bosnia. The crisis has taken several turns and twists and has been accompanied by political moves by regional and international parties that have almost deprived the international community of credibility. Bahrain has supported all United Nations resolutions relating to Bosnia and Herzegovina. It has endorsed all the efforts and initiatives undertaken by the United Nations, as well as other organizations and all those who desire peace and uphold justice. As the Serbs have gone too far in their aggression and in defying the will of the international community in pursuit of their expansionist and aggressive schemes that 21 have been exposed to all and rejected by all, we see a ray of light on the horizon which gives cause for hope that, at long last, a solution for this human tragedy may be at hand and might finally redeem the international community’s silence over the plight of the Bosnian people. Bahrain supports the positive developments that are taking place now in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It calls upon the international community and the Security Council to maintain pressure on the Serb aggressors towards compliance with United Nations resolutions and accepting a just and equitable solution for all parties. In particular, the solution should be just and equitable for the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose people have suffered material losses and have been subjected to inhuman suffering as a result of the occupation of parts of their territories. While we voice deep concern over the ongoing conflict in Afghanistan, we should like to call upon the parties involved in the conflict to resort to reason and logic and, thereby, reach a cease-fire and work for peace, stability and national reconciliation. The United Nations has deployed continuous efforts over the past few years towards the settlement of the Cyprus problem. In this connection, we should like to reiterate our support for the efforts of the Secretary-General that aim at reaching a just resolution of the problem in accordance with the provisions of the relevant Security Council resolutions. Bahrain, having supported the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the objectives thereof,is of the opinion that the Treaty, being an instrument of international peace and security, should apply universally with no exceptions or special considerations. We should like, meanwhile, to stress the need for upholding the Treaty, adherence to its provisions and pursuit of its objectives. Bahrain views Security Council resolution 984 (1995), despite the limited nature of the guarantees it embodies, as a first positive step towards security guarantees that are applicable to all, for States which do not possess nuclear weapons. Bahrain supported the initiative of making the Middle East a zone free of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction on the basis of its belief in the importance of peace, security and confidence building amongst all States of the region. It has also endorsed the resolution adopted by the conference of the parties to the NPT and the arms limitations Treaty, despite its shortcomings. We are confident that a Middle East zone free of nuclear and weapons of mass destruction would enhance the peace process and lead to a situation wherein enormous financial resources would be saved and channelled towards the economic prosperity and social development of the peoples of the region. Regional cooperation has become one of the necessities of our modern world in view of the intertwined interests of the peoples of the world. It is thus a complementary part of, rather than a substitute for international cooperation. It serves today as an effective means for the promotion of economic prosperity and mutual understanding with a view to establishing strong relations based on mutual trust, good-neighbourliness and non-interference in the internal affairs of others. The Arab Gulf States have long recognized the importance of regional cooperation amongst them in enabling them to face the imminent risks that beset the region. More than 15 years ago, they established the Gulf Cooperation Council with a view to reinvigorating Gulf joint action and strengthening the historical and brotherly ties between the Gulf States on the basis of the unity of objectives and a common destiny. The Council’s march has witnessed positive developments in the fields of coordination and cooperation amongst its member States. The resolutions of the fifteenth summit which Bahrain had the honour of hosting and presiding over have strengthened this march. The summit had historic significance in that it addressed crucial Gulf issues by adopting resolutions that reaffirmed the determination to widen the scope of cooperation, to surmount obstacles and to settle all outstanding matters within the Council and the unified Gulf family. Brotherly and friendly States have welcomed these steps and expressed the hope that the same spirit would apply to all issues so that all the States and peoples of the region may reap the benefits of security, stability and prosperity. The Governments of the States members of the Council have undertaken to continue to promote all aspects of cooperation between their States and with other economic groups, to look forward positively to the prospects of future work and to develop strategic visions that take into consideration the interests and priorities of the other members of the Council and those of other States in the interests of peace, security and stability in the region and in the world at large. The strengthening of the United Nations role and increasing its capabilities and effectiveness require the 22 developing of its bodies, including the Security Council, the organ concerned with international peace and security. The need to develop the work of the Council has become an important issue that has the unanimous support of Member States in view of the current international changes. We believe that such development should reflect the equitable geographic representation of all regional groups in order to increase the effectiveness and level of efficiency of the Organization and to achieve balance in the Council, so that its membership may be representative of the world’s different cultures. As member of this international Organization, Bahrain looks forward to participating in the work of the Council during the period of its membership scheduled for 1998-1999. We all aspire after a world of security, cooperation and peace. Our international Organization, equipped as it is with its membership’s intellectual and cultural values and with the high principles and noble objectives enshrined in its Charter, is quite capable of satisfying this aspiration. However, in order for the United Nations to do so, we, its Members, must give the Organization our full support on the occasion of its fiftieth anniversary so that it may achieve in our behalf what we all desire, namely, justice and peace. It is an honour for me to address this Assembly on behalf of Papua New Guinea and in my capacity as the Chairman of the South Pacific Forum, which met three weeks ago. At the outset, allow me to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral upon his election to preside over the General Assembly at this session, which also marks the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations; and to congratulate also his predecessor for the efficiency and fairness with which he conducted the forty-ninth session. In my capacity as the Chairman of the South Pacific Forum and on behalf of Papua New Guinea, I warmly welcome the Republic of Palau, a sister country from our region, as the 185th Member of the United Nations. As we mark this fiftieth anniversary, our celebrations are tempered by the fact that many of the dreams and ideals of the United Nations remain elusive. A world of greater freedom, prosperity and security - the fundamental goals of the United Nations Charter - unfortunately has not yet been attained. Much remains to be achieved by the United Nations, and that, to a great degree, depends on the collective support of each and every Member nation. Papua New Guinea retains a strong belief that the international community cannot do without the United Nations, despite its shortcomings. If it was necessary in the aftermath of the Second World War, it is even more so today. In 50 years, the United Nations has contributed immensely to positive international interactions and has provided the codes of conduct that today we take for granted in our international dealings. As one of many countries governed under the watchful eye of the United Nations before becoming a full Member at independence, Papua New Guinea is firmly committed to rejuvenating and strengthening the world’s paramount international Organization. Everything that needs to be said for the good of humanity has been said many times over in this very Hall. Noble and practical sentiments have always been expressed, often in the strongest terms. What too often have been lacking are political will and international statesmanship. Therein lies the difference between wishful thinking and turning our hopes and dreams for humanity into reality. On the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, I am proud to say that Papua New Guinea pledges full commitment to the principles and objectives of the Organization. We should together strive to build a better world for this generation and for those to come, in the next 50 years and beyond. In areas where the United Nations has been successful, we have to recommit ourselves, and where it has not been successful, now is the time to correct and rebuild inadequate systems. Our ultimate objective must be to promote a more effective, more accountable, more responsible and more caring United Nations, capable of meeting the challenges of the twenty-first century. We must consider very carefully how we should usher in and embrace the twenty-first century. The end of one century and the beginning of another provides us with a natural period of reflection and self-examination. It is time to resolve to untangle, and rid ourselves of, all that has stopped us from creating a better world. For that reform, we require a fresh start with greater determination, less cynicism, and hearts open more widely to the plight of all humanity. That is our collective challenge between now and the year 2000. The international community must demonstrate the necessary resolve, courage, vision and moral will to make this world a better place. In setting the agenda for a better future, we must first understand our shared history. We must know that within the United Nations, our collective search for true peace is deeply rooted in events that took place just months before this Organization came into existence. I speak of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. They did not just change our world forever — these events changed the very way we think. Effectively the closing acts of the Second World War, they forced upon the world an urgency in the search for peace. It is an urgency that has never been lost, as morality and the heart of man battle to keep pace with technology in all its forms. It is a race that the United Nations is running. It is a race that it cannot afford to lose. If peace is in the hearts of men, and men in turn are the heart of nations, and nations the heart of the world, then we must fully realize just how profound a change we must undergo to find true peace. The extent to which the world discovers and embraces peace will be reflected in the way it faces up to other threats to humanity. One of the challenges that I believe is eating away at the health and lives of all nations is the abuse of drugs — and it truly is a world problem. The drug trade preys upon the youth of the world, shattering the lives of individuals and the peace and prosperity of communities. It has truly established its own foul “united nations”. The criminals — and they are criminals of the lowest order — have broken down barriers of nationality, politics, race, religion and culture far more successfully than has this Assembly, as they ply their evil trade. The networks they have established make multinational corporate giants look like small players, and 2 have become so entrenched that they can be met only with an equally determined and broad-based international response. That task must be placed at the door of the United Nations because, quite simply, no other group, no nation, can take them on alone. Victory in the battle against the drug barons will require the same qualities needed in every other serious endeavour of the United Nations — political will and collective determination. Without these factors, we risk losing generations to destructive substance abuse. The price is too high. We must fight as one against this evil. It is battles such as this that collectively we must take up. If we do not commit ourselves to fights for decency such as this one, we will never find the courage required to attain true life and peace in this world. On the question of the expansion of the Security Council membership, we urge the five permanent members of the Council to join us in looking critically at the continuing relevance of their privileged positions and to consider how the Security Council might operate more effectively. Papua New Guinea fully supports the permanent membership of Japan and Germany on the Security Council. We are also aware of the need to support shared objectives and decisions with adequate resources. We are especially concerned that the ongoing financial difficulties should be resolved promptly, so that the United Nations can function to its full capacity. No one should rest satisfied while we are faced with the perpetuation of social and economic disparities between and within nations — largely the result of parochial interests being pursued at the expense of genuine human concerns. It is precisely this short-sightedness that has resulted in United Nations failure in some areas in the past. Decency and justice must prevail in fact, and not just in words. Papua New Guinea, as an active participant in and beneficiary of the Lome Convention between the European Union (EU) and the African Caribbean Pacific Group of States (ACP), is greatly honoured to currently hold the presidency and the chairmanship of all Lome Convention institutions, including the ACP-EU Joint Assembly, the ACP Council of Ministers and the ACP Committee of Ambassadors. We feel confident that we will play a substantive role, under the Lome Convention, in addressing these inequities. We are also hopeful that the international trade and economic situation will improve with the advent of the World Trade Organization, with protections to ensure that the weak are not manipulated by the strong. The problems of debt management and servicing continue to plague many developing countries. In trying to address them, we do not believe there are universal solutions. Every case must be dealt with individually and on its own merits. To do otherwise will simply cause serious social and political dislocation. In this regard, international lending institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) should demonstrate the requisite sensitivity and tact. We do not believe there is a single recipe for all problems, particularly as they relate to structural adjustment programmes of the type which we in Papua New Guinea have only recently ploughed through and adopted, after refinements to meet our own particular circumstances. We live in a rapidly changing world, and it is a world dogged by confusion and distortion as it struggles to set new bounds of acceptability and compatibility. With the decline of the cold war, our optimistic hearts thought we might at long last enter a period of peace, security and prosperity. Much of that optimism has today given way to doubt and concern. The challenge to the resolve and the resources of the United Nations is arguably as great as it has ever been — in Bosnia, the former Soviet Union, Rwanda, Somalia and elsewhere. Some of these trouble-spots have highlighted the United Nations problems and been a source of acute embarrassment to the United Nations, which has too often been reduced to shameful impotence. The tragedy — the overwhelming tragedy — of this is that lives have been lost; people have died in huge numbers. The simple fact is that so many of them would still be alive today if the 3 United Nations had more effectively fulfilled its role once it had decided to intervene. When we lay this accusation at the door of the United Nations, let us make no mistake about it: we do not and cannot distance ourselves from these failings. We, the members, are the United Nations. We are responsible for what it does, or fails to do. We must lay much blame at the door of the Member States which, collectively, have so lacked political will and moral courage. The reforms that will bring about increased political will and a more humanitarian view must occur within each and every Member nation. As the United Nations celebrates its fiftieth anniversary, we would like to stress that if it wants to be a true world forum, then it should exclude no country, large or small. At a time when reconciliation is superseding confrontation the United Nations, in accordance with the spirit of preventive diplomacy, should do its best to ease the tensions between both sides of the Taiwan Straits. Peace and prosperity in the Asia-Pacific region are at stake. On a global scale, we thought there was a hope for peace and prosperity on the horizon when the international community gathered in Rio for the Earth Summit on Environment and Sustainable Development. We all pledged and acknowledged at the Rio Summit that something had to be done, because humanity was endangered by environmental degradation and climate change, and we adopted “Agenda 21” as the framework document. All Governments took the document firmly in hand, but sadly their grip today appears to have slackened. This experience and others call into question the usefulness of further global conferences, when the results of the ones already held are so generally disappointing. We have had all the special world conferences, such as the ones in Barbados on small island developing States, in Cairo on population, in Copenhagen on social issues, in Berlin on climate change and the recent Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing — although in fairness to the latter, we should give it more time to produce results. We should consider a moratorium on such gatherings until we begin to see practical benefits coming through. The talking has been done; it is now time for action. Environmental issues have become an all- encompassing international agenda. In the context of an interdependent world, we have a collective responsibility guided by the framework of international conventions to manage and develop our resources sustainably. The goals of sustainable development can be realized only through effective intergovernmental cooperation and through regional and international efforts. For its part, the South Pacific Forum, made up of 16 nations, including Palau, which joined at the most recent Forum, has adopted both national and regional strategies to develop and implement environmentally sound programmes. Together with our fellow members of the Melanesian Spearhead Group, we have become party to the Lakatoro Declaration on Oceania Cooperation on Denuclearization. Papua New Guinea and the other 15 members of the South Pacific Forum recently expressed extreme outrage at the French Government’s resumption of nuclear testing at Mururoa and resolved to review the status of their dialogue with France. In total disregard of our stand, France detonated its second nuclear test, at Fangataufa Atoll, at 9.30 a.m., Papua New Guinea time, on Monday, 2 October 1995. Consistent with the resolution of the South Pacific Forum nations, I now, regrettably, in my capacity as Chairman of the Forum, announce the suspension forthwith of all post-Forum dialogue with France. I am pleased to report that the twenty-sixth South Pacific Forum paid close attention to the changed regional and world security situation. The Forum’s concept paper “Securing Development Beyond 2000” looked at security issues well beyond the scope of military threats and military solutions. We focused on increasing security on a sustainable basis by promoting trade, transport and tourism in and for our region. We addressed the need for regional arrangements on environmental damage, natural disasters and other emergencies; as a result, we are working to have a comprehensive and detailed plan of action for the region. That is a Forum document to which we are party; but for Papua New Guinea’s part, we have our own national guiding document, “The Pacific Plan”, for our relations with our Pacific neighbours. In considering Pacific issues, the Forum was conscious that small island States are very vulnerable and have unusual needs. Their economies are constantly under 4 threat from natural disasters such as cyclones, volcanoes and the looming danger of rising sea levels. When such States are hit by cyclones, it is akin to the ravages of war, and their economies and infrastructures face severe strains that seriously hamper and set back their development. Papua New Guinea therefore appeals to the international community to render support consistent with the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States to assist their efforts to achieve greater self-reliance. Small nations, including many in the Pacific, have suffered from declining international concern since the end of the cold war. Geo-economic considerations have largely replaced the geo-political considerations of the past, with new webs of alignment replacing the old and familiar ones. This has forced regionalistic tendencies upon nations, which in some respects has crippled moves towards a true global partnership. Member nations will be aware of the internal crisis that Papua New Guinea has faced on Bougainville, one that has demanded enormous energy, time, patience and resources from the Government of my country. I am pleased to inform the Assembly that my Government, since taking office in August of last year, has wholeheartedly sought a successful resolution to the Bougainville situation, so far with notable success. Please allow me to express the appreciation of the people and the Government of Papua New Guinea to the United Nations, and to the Secretary-General’s office in particular, for the cooperation and understanding extended to us throughout this process. I am thinking particularly of the support the United Nations offered to the Bougainville Peace Conference of October last year, which, I am pleased to say, with the coming together of the South Pacific peace-keeping force, put flesh on the words of the Secretary-General on the value of regional approaches to conflict resolution. I believe that today the benefits of that wise policy are there for all to see in the situation on Bougainville, which has vastly improved over the past 12 months. We also wish to assure the international community of our absolute commitment to human rights in dealing with this situation, as guaranteed in our Constitution. Indeed, it is a fundamental regard for the right of all our people to live free and peaceful lives that has driven me and my Government to search tirelessly for a resolution to this crisis. There is no such thing as a minority group in Papua New Guinea because we come from numerous and diverse linguistic, cultural and social backgrounds. We have over 800 tribes and languages among 4 million people, in a country the size of Malaysia. In effect, we are all minorities in our land. As such, every group has a legitimate place in Papua New Guinea. For us and for other developing nations, the focus of social issues falls squarely on the question of empowering people to eradicate poverty, get an education and live healthy lives. When that is achieved, the people are then in a position to expand their participation in the social and economic development of their nation. Without those basics, theirs is simply a battle for survival. Increasing marginalization of the poor and of minorities remains a major problem within every country, regardless of economic or political status. We support the view that a new paradigm of development has to redefine the needs of people in terms of securing the basics of life such as housing, food and water. This can be achieved only by empowering people through decision-making and through direct participation in the development process. In that connection, I wish to draw the attention of the Assembly to a report to be prepared by the Secretary-General on the United Nations initiative on opportunity and participation, which I hope will receive the serious consideration it deserves. One of the hallmarks of United Nations achievement has been the decolonization of peoples under colonial domination. As we commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we can proudly testify that the United Nations has generally fulfilled its duties and responsibilities with respect to the decolonization process. My country and many others represented in this Hall are testimony to the honourable achievements of this Organization in decolonization. Less than three weeks ago my people joyfully celebrated the twentieth anniversary of the independence of Papua New Guinea. While we acknowledge and commend the United Nations for its decolonization achievements, its task is not yet complete. There are still many Territories under colonial domination of one form or another. In recognition of the unfinished task relating to colonialism, the General Assembly has adopted a resolution proclaiming the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism. This carries great hope for those who are still under the yoke of colonialism. 5 The end of apartheid in South Africa brought a great sense of relief and enlightenment, not just there but throughout the world. In that vein, colonialism — another blight on humanity — should be done away with and consigned to the pages of history as a degrading phenomenon of a bygone age. There is a need to take a case-by-case approach in addressing the problems of the Territories under colonial administration to ensure that the wishes of the people concerned are adequately and realistically taken into account in determining their eventual political status. In our immediate region, we are keen to see the decolonization process in New Caledonia allowed to take its due course, consistent with United Nations principles and practices. While we acknowledge the progressive attitude taken by the French Government with regard to New Caledonia, we are concerned that certain negative and counter-productive policies still exist. In that regard, we call on France to fulfil its decolonization responsibilities quickly and with dignity. The eradication of colonialism before the year 2000 will place us on a more enlightened plateau. It will make the world a better place, more equipped to take on the challenges of the future with justice and dignity for all. The United Nations undoubtedly stands for humanity. It provides the best possible avenue to peace, security and prosperity. While we all acknowledge the worthy objectives of the United Nations Charter, no country can claim that it has given full and complete support to the Organization. Unfortunately, the United Nations has time and again been used for parochial pursuits, whether in respect of peace-keeping, human rights or environmental areas or in Security Council deliberations. In this very imperfect world, it would be naive to have ever expected perfect solutions from the United Nations. I say again that it is, however, an Organization that my Government strongly believes the international community cannot do without. If the United Nations did not exist, we would have to invent it. Fifty years on, our task is to reinvent it, to make it better, to allow it to fully and ably serve humanity. This is a most noble goal that must be pursued with pragmatic intensity and determination. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is the time for each and every Member nation to recommit itself to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. We must do it for peace, and with the vivid recollection of Hiroshima and Nagasaki never far way. If we are to welcome the new century as we should, then the United Nations Charter provides the yardstick for the challenges ahead. There are many global issues confronting us today, and the United Nations provides us with the best chance — the only chance — of handling them successfully. So let us act for the sake of all humanity. In this global age we must mend our ways. We must think with global heads and attend to humanity’s needs with global hearts. Only then will our attitudes have kept pace with the realities we face. Only then can we leave a better world for our children. I wish first of all to congratulate the President of the General Assembly upon his election to his high office in the year of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. May I, at the same time, extend my sincere thanks to the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for his excellent work. Fifty years ago, my countryman Trygve Lie became Secretary-General of an Organization with a very modest structure but with a “sacred mandate”, as he said in his acceptance speech, “to build a firm foundation for the peace of the world”. (Official Records of the General Assembly, First Session, Plenary Meetings, 22nd meeting, p. 326) Since then, even greater demands have been made on the United Nations in terms of leadership, ideas, manpower and finances. On the occasion of its fiftieth anniversary, we must empower the United Nations to work with renewed vigour and effectiveness in promoting peace, human rights, sustainable development, equality, justice and understanding among peoples. Rather than being poised to take on new challenges, however, the United Nations finds itself in a financial crisis of major proportions. The Secretary-General has recently pointed out that the Organization is, in a technical sense, insolvent — yes, bankrupt. Only prompt payment by a small number of Member States has enabled it to continue to operate. The situation is more serious than ever before because of the unprecedented amounts involved and the fact that one major contributor’s payment is being withheld and is expected to be unilaterally reduced in the years ahead. This desperate financial situation reflects the inadequate priority given to the United Nations by many of its Members, which is in clear violation of their obligations. It may sound harsh, but, coming from a country which consistently pays $100 per capita to the United Nations system, I have difficulties in explaining to my own electorate that other rich countries are not even willing to provide one tenth of that level. At the same time, I realize that the United Nations assessment system should be reformed without delay. Moreover, experience has shown that the United Nations itself needs to be reformed, restructured and modernized. Norway wholeheartedly supports the reform process launched to strengthen the United Nations system and make it more representative and effective. This should include expansion of the membership of the Security Council and increased transparency of its methods of work. To meet the twin challenges of peace and sustainable development, the United Nations and its Member States should proceed along five parallel paths. First, we must help increase local and regional capacity to handle conflict situations. For instance, African countries have signalled via the Organization of African Unity (OAU) that they are prepared to take on a larger share of the responsibility for solving their own problems. In response, Norway will cooperate with partners in Southern Africa in building up standby reserves of qualified personnel for peace operations under United Nations or OAU auspices. Secondly, more nations must be willing to contribute to the United Nations peace-keeping forces. Traditional troop contributors do not have the capacity to provide all the personnel that will be needed in future peace-keeping missions aimed at solving disputes, protecting local populations and providing humanitarian assistance. Both the United Nations and the traditional troop-contributing countries must assist potential troop contributors with competence-building measures, just as the Nordic countries are now assisting the Baltic States. Thirdly, the rapid-reaction and standby capability of the United Nations must be improved. Norway is prepared to join in efforts to develop new, much-needed instruments to deal quickly and effectively with crisis situations. The rapid-reaction capability must also include humanitarian assistance. The United Nations should continue to play a central role in coordinating humanitarian relief efforts. Norway has given high priority to measures that enable us to respond expeditiously to requests for assistance. We have established an effective preparedness 10 system for emergency assistance that covers both personnel and matériel. Emergency equipment can be airborne within 24 hours. Experienced personnel can be in the field within 72 hours. In Rwanda, a fully equipped field hospital, accompanied by the necessary personnel, was recently delivered at short notice to the United Nations, in accordance with these procedures. With a view to improving the United Nations response to support requirements, Norway has offered to provide facilities for a United Nations medical depot where medical equipment and supplies for peace-keeping and humanitarian operations can be stored and maintained. Fourthly, we must put even greater emphasis on conflict-prevention measures. The international community must be present in unstable areas and must provide economic incentives, mediation expertise and human rights monitors. Conflict prevention is the most effective way of using limited resources. Norway will continue to shoulder its share of the responsibility — for instance, in Guatemala, where we are actively involved in the peace process, together with the other members of the Group of Friends. Norway has established a special human-resource bank for human rights and democracy, which is able, at short notice, to offer experts to assist countries and peoples in their efforts to build democratic societies. The international community must be prepared to act decisively when atrocities are committed. Serious crimes should be prosecuted by an international criminal tribunal. The establishment of the ad hoc Tribunals in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda has provided momentum for the efforts to establish a permanent court. The tribunal’s role should be limited to cases where national jurisdiction is unavailable or ineffective. Fifthly, on the occasion of its fiftieth anniversary, we call on the United Nations to take a decisive lead in promoting sustainable development and eradicating poverty. Efforts to improve global security must address the issues of economic growth, development and poverty, while ensuring that the use of natural resources is kept within the carrying capacity of the Earth. The United Nations must become a driving force for sustainable development. The United Nations is the only forum with a mandate to tackle the truly global problems affecting the environment and the sustainable management of natural resources. Let me offer some brief examples. The Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks provided an invaluable contribution to the management of fishery resources. We are also pleased that, just a few days ago, the United Nations Panel on Forests was able to take the first steps to protect, preserve and manage the world’s forests in a sustainable manner. I would like to stress the need for a concerted effort within the United Nations system to ensure that the results from the major conferences in Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing on, respectively, population, social development and women actually become translated into law and realities, locally, nationally and at the international level. With a growing world population, we have witnessed the spread of the gravest insult to human dignity — poverty. Our inability to eradicate poverty haunts our common conscience. As long as the gap between rich and poor, whether between States or within States, continues to widen, we cannot claim to be on the right track. If we are to alleviate poverty, both donors and recipients must make more resources available for social welfare activities. At least 20 per cent of development assistance budgets and national budgets of recipient countries should be allocated to the social sector. The conflict in the former Yugoslavia is far from being solved, even though the prospects for a negotiated solution now appear much better than they did until recently. Norway welcomes the agreement on basic principles which resulted from the Geneva meeting on 8 September. The United States of America deserves praise for its persistent efforts in this regard. It is vitally important that the members of the international community, in particular the contact group countries, continue their common approach to the solution of the crisis. In this context, the United Nations and the European Union mediators can make a valuable contribution. The success of the mediation efforts depends entirely on the readiness of the parties to compromise. We strongly urge all the parties to show flexibility and restraint, and to refrain from attempting to obtain further advantages on the battlefield. Special attention must be given to displaced persons, who, whenever possible, must be allowed to repossess their homes. The time has come to start reflecting on the reconstruction of that war-devastated region. This will require a sustained international effort. The United Nations system together with the European Union and others must play a leadership role in coordinating programs in various fields, such as economic 11 reconstruction, humanitarian aid and assistance to refugees, democracy-building and human rights. Local leaders have a heavy responsibility to prevent a new arms race, human rights abuses and the renewal of tensions in the area. Norway will continue to support the process of building peace and prosperity in the former Yugoslavia. I call on the General Assembly to lend its full and undivided support to the peace process in the Middle East. The new interim agreement is a significant and necessary follow-up to the Oslo agreement. Today we salute once more the Israeli and the Palestinian leaders for their courage and determination. As Chairman of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee to coordinate donor activities, I strongly urge the donors to continue to support — for some donors, to increase their support of — the Middle East peace process by providing economic assistance to the Palestinian people. Our common interest in peace in the Middle East is the best argument for heavy economic support to the Palestinian areas. Nuclear testing is a threat to our search for common security and to the environment, and should be banned. We deeply deplore the Chinese and French tests, which we fear may complicate the ongoing negotiations in Geneva on a comprehensive test ban treaty. We would once again urge all nuclear-weapon States to refrain from further nuclear testing during the negotiations and until the treaty enters into force. Land-mines are among the most insidious weapons in common use. They cause indiscriminate and widespread suffering and continue to spread terror for years or even decades after hostilities have ended. We call for a total ban on the production, stockpiling, trade and use of anti-personnel land-mines. In the absence of such a ban, we urge all countries to adhere to the United Nations 1980 inhumane-weapons Convention. No strengthening of the land-mine Protocol will be effective unless adherence to it becomes universal. Finally, let us seize the opportunity offered by the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations to renew our support for the United Nations and its aims. Each and every one of us must help to ensure that the United Nations becomes what we need and what future generations have the right to expect: an effective tool to harness our strength and unite us in maintaining peace, promoting social progress and protecting human dignity. Allow me at the outset to express to the President my warmest congratulations on his election to guide the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that his wealth of experience will make it possible for this session to achieve its noble goals. I 9 should like to pledge the full support and cooperation of Sudan to that end. Allow me also to express my great appreciation to his predecessor, the President of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, for his immensely valuable contribution to the work of the United Nations. I would also like to commend the Secretary- General for his continuous endeavours in fulfilling his functions. This session of the General Assembly acquires a special importance because half a century in the lifetime of the Organization calls upon us to pause for contemplation and self-criticism. We should do that because we look forward to the United Nations becoming the body that guarantees peaceful coexistence amongst States, the light that guides States in important issues and the effective instrument for consolidating international cooperation. The philosophy upon which the United Nations was established was one that aimed at reflecting the progress humanity had achieved towards the state of civilization. However, actual experience has fallen short of that aspiration. In our view, this falling short has been due to certain practices by means of which some have tried to use the Organization as a tool to impose their hegemony and influence, so that their own outlook and values may become the sole, compulsory statute of the international community, regardless of any diversity of cultures, beliefs, or heritage. It behoves us to agree, however, that our world is made up of a fabric of diversity, and that such diversity, at no time in history, has been a source of conflict but, rather, a source of rich and valuable contributions to the gains made by mankind. Instead of undermining that diversity or using it as a pretext for strife and conflict, it would have been wiser to make it a basis for constructive dialogue and the consolidation of tolerance and justice in the world. The United Nations has led humanity towards new horizons in the half century that has elapsed since its establishment. This necessitates a reconsideration of its system and mechanisms, given the vast expansion in its membership, its new responsibilities and the emergence of new international economic and political blocs and systems that were not in existence when the United Nations was founded. Top priority in such an endeavour should be accorded to the need to reform the Security Council, in view of the role expected from it in maintaining international peace and security. The considerations we have mentioned are compelling reasons for expanding Security Council membership in order to ensure equitable representation of the developing countries. It is also necessary to reform the procedures of the Council, to ensure transparency and clarity in its work, to reform its decision-making mechanism and to develop equitable criteria that would guide its policies and safeguard it against the pitfall of double-standard and the effects of the ambitions of hegemony and domination of any of its members. The reform of the United Nations should also include reform of the Bretton Woods institutions, which have come to be used as tools for the implementation of strategies that are designed to entrench hegemony over the developing countries. Therefore, the Bretton Woods institutions are required to return to their mandate, which stipulate their role in the promotion of a balanced development and support for the monetary and financial policies of all countries without exception or discrimination. We also concur in the call for a review of those institutions in the light of the economic and financial factors which have come to prevail in today’s world as a result of the emergence of new groups and countries whose economic weight enables them to exert considerable influence on international trade and on the flow of financial resources and capital. Today’s world also faces a number of economic and social crises as a result of the fractious economic relations between North and South, the inequitable terms of trade and the ever-expanding gap between rich and poor countries. Those crises are exacerbated by the dominance of consumerism and the undermining of the moral values that uphold the dignity of man and preserve the social fabric. Those are moral values which inspired all cultures and civilizations. Accordingly, the objectives of balanced development should be formulated on a basis of respect for those values and principles in order for these objectives to be conducive to resolving the crises and maintaining balance in social, political, cultural, and economic relations in the world community. In this regard, we should mention the debt problem that has become a major concern for developing countries, especially the African. The indebtedness of the African countries had doubled in the past 10 years to a record $270 billion, with a debt-servicing tag that consumes about 35 per cent of the gross national product of those countries. As expected, the heavy debt burden and debt-servicing tag have had serious consequences 10 which impede development efforts and obstruct economic structural reforms. On the other hand, the industrial countries have taken no responsible initiative to address this problem. Instead, they called for a case-by-case approach on a bilateral basis. This reinforces the impression that the purpose is the imposition of a political agenda. The result has been paralysis of the economies of African States, collapse of their infrastructures, and, consequently the eruption of internal and regional conflicts all over the continent, which have impeded Africa’s efforts to achieve growth and internal stability. Therefore, the linking of peace-keeping, humanitarian assistance and long-term sustainable development is a principle that we welcome and support. Sudan has been following with deep concern the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the Bosnian people have continued to be victims of “ethnic cleansing” and extermination. While we reiterate our support for the people and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we call upon the international community to continue its efforts to put an end to the genocide that targets this people and we commend the efforts deployed by all those countries that support or are engaged in the search for a just, lasting and comprehensive settlement to this problem. The situation in the Gulf is of special importance to us not only because it affects our peace and stability, but also because of the deeply rooted historical and cultural ties and relationships which strongly bind my country to that region. We look forward to the return of peace amongst our brothers in the Gulf. In this respect, we have welcomed Iraq’s official recognition of the sovereignty and territorial boundaries of the State of Kuwait in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions and Iraq’s undertaking to cooperate in resolving the outstanding problems between the two States, on the one hand, and between Iraq and the Security Council, on the other. We call on all parties to abide by these measures in order to guarantee Kuwait’s legitimate right to existence and sovereignty and the right to security and stability to its people and leadership. By the same token, we call for the lifting of the embargo imposed on Iraq, which no longer has any legal justification as the grounds it was built on no longer obtain. The embargo has now become a political ploy aimed at starving the Iraqi people, humiliating it and fragmenting its territory. In the same context, Sudan has been following, with great dismay and disapprobation, the continuation of the unjust sanctions imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, while the Jamahiriya has spared no effort in trying to deal with the dispute over the Lockerbie crisis by every acceptable legal means. It is our opinion that the initiative by the League of Arab States, to which the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya subscribes, is a practical basis for addressing the situation in a manner that would lead to the lifting of the sanctions. As for the Palestinian question, it is our belief that peace should be based on the criteria of justice and full respect for all the rights of the Palestinian and Arab peoples of the region. Consequently, the return of all the Syrian Golan Heights to Syria, and Israel’s full and unconditional withdrawal from southern Lebanon, Al-Quds and all the other occupied Arab territories, are essential requirements for the achievement of any stable lasting settlement. We are advocates of peace, stability and good- neighbourliness. Our abiding conviction has been that the Horn of Africa is a region that has suffered most, without any objective justification from internal civil strife and instability. We concur with the view that the peoples of the subregion should focus on the need to achieve security and stability. Indeed, this is an objective that we have worked for through many a practical initiative that we put forward as members of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and of the International Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD). Notwithstanding the high hopes we had in that direction, the results have fallen short of the very minimum of our aspirations, because some have been seduced by grand strategies whose aim has been the destabilization of the region. It is regrettable that some seem to find it difficult indeed to abide by the behests of international legality or even to respect the norms of international law. It is equally regrettable that such quarters find it difficult to abide by the principles of good-neighbourliness and peaceful coexistence and turn, instead, to subversion and terrorism against my country publicly embrace and give haven to elements of armed opposition. My country supports the initiatives aimed at promoting and strengthening regional organizations and mechanisms for conflict prevention and settlement, and urges that such mechanisms should adhere to the objectives they were introduced to achieve and abide by the rules that govern their activities. It is our opinion that the functions of such mechanisms should be, above all else, preventive and that they should discharge such functions impartially. They should intervene in conflicts only when it is necessary to do so, with the consent of the parties concerned, and their activities should be 11 limited to peaceful handling. They should also preserve their regional nature, so that they do not become extensions of other parallel mechanisms or tentacles of strategies that aim at international hegemony. As regards our immediate neighbours, allow me to reciprocate, and to extend similar greetings to the brotherly people of Egypt, and to express our conviction that only the truth will prevail and that the situation in Egypt will return to its normal course, away from all policies of repression, domination and terrorism. There is no doubt that relations between Sudan and Egypt, inevitably, will return to normal away from the policy of imposition of fait accompli, away from the policies of occupation of territory by force and overt support for organized armed terrorism and away from the legitimization of rebellion and sedition. It is our conviction that the ties of brotherhood and solidarity that, historically, have linked our two peoples, will remain as strong and as enduring as the Nile that flows from Sudan to Egypt. Sudan has very clearly supported the integrity of Egypt within its borders. This has been the position of principle adopted by Sudan towards Egypt, not in words but in deeds that are recorded in the eternal annals of history as when the sons of Sudan gave their lives in defence of Egypt. As we are renewing the commitment to and desire for peace and coexistence, we call for the resolving by negotiation of all boundary disputes and all problems relating to sovereignty over territories that arise between States. Failing this, there would be no alternative but to seek arbitration by neutral parties. The word “Islam” is derived from the Arabic word “salam” which means “peace”. Islam is a religion based on the principles of peace, equality and justice. I do not believe that Islam needs anyone to defend its record: it is history that bears witness to the greatness of the civilizations it gave rise to while the present attests to its contribution to the moral and social progress of men. God honoured man by making him with His own hand and by ordaining that this fact should for ever be a fundamental reason for honouring man and for upholding his rights. Thus the concept of human rights, which was recently blazoned by some as if it were something that they have just recently discovered, has been part of Islam’s teachings for centuries upon centuries. Islam made it part of its charter which guides the believers long before that concept found its way into modern charters. It is indeed regrettable that such a religion should become the target of a malicious onslaught that aims not only at distorting its image, but also at trying to question its origins and roots. It is all the more disturbing that certain major Powers and societies have found it fitting to participate in this onslaught, without paying heed, it would seem, to the devastating confrontation between the West and Islam the onslaught is trying to provoke. We particularly urge the United Nations not to allow itself to be dragged into such a campaign. We were pleased by the constructive approach adopted by His Holiness Pope John Paul II in his address to this Assembly and by his call for coexistence amongst different cultures so that they might complement each other in building a healthy human society. In that connection, we also applaud the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany before this Assembly and by his rejection of any linking of Islam with terrorism. We hope that other Western leaders will follow suit and ensure that policies on the ground should reflect such a posture. Moreover, the need to avoid attempts at misrepresenting Islam and provoking confrontation with it requires that such positive positions should not be confined to leaders and Governments but should extend also and become reflected in their societies, their mass media and their legal, security and administrative systems. In conformity with our values and beliefs, which respect women, the State has promoted the position of women in Sudan, has granted them their full rights and has enabled them to reach the highest levels in the constitutional, legislative, and executive branches of Government. In today’s Sudan, women constitute 50 per cent of the Government’s working force. The percentage of females in the universities and institutions of higher education is more than 60 per cent. Sudan was a pioneer among the countries of the region in the area of empowering woman. Women have been appointed not only to govern provinces, but also to hold leading posts in a number of the ministries of central Government and in the provinces. Our option in Sudan has been that economic and social development should be founded on our spiritual values, our historical background and our social traditions. Self-reliance has been the major underpinning of this endeavour to achieve development. Although our opting for this path has been under conditions of an inauspicious 12 world climate, yet we have managed to provide food, clothing and various basic services for our citizens. The participation of the Sudanese citizen in the country’s public affairs underscores the approach we have opted for, namely the prevalence of the spirit of consultation — shura — so that our citizens may be able to participate actively in the decision-making organs within the federal system. In this context, Sudan has witnessed public elections for various legislative bodies in more than 20 of its 26 provinces. Upon completion of elections in all provinces, elections for the members of the National Assembly will be held, and eventually, the election of a President of the Republic will take place. At the moment, Sudan hosts about one million refugees, and despite its meagre resources, its Government provides them with material assistance. It is unfortunate that the international community has discontinued its assistance to those refugees, thus leaving the country to bear the brunt of this essentially international responsibility. We call upon the international community to increase its financial assistance to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to meet the essential needs of refugee projects and programmes in Sudan. Failure by the international community to do so will be quite unfair to Sudan, as it would mean that the country is expected to continue to host such a number of refugees while the international community fails to discharge its responsibility towards them. We come to this session of the General Assembly motivated by good faith, and determination to play fully our role in cooperation with the international family of the United Nations. In so doing, we are inspired by our commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and by our desire to put our capabilities at the service of the common good of mankind and to work for the realization of our aspirations after a new world order that would be characterized by liberty, equality and justice. We hope that the principles set forth in this statement would point the way towards the attainment of the noble goals which the United Nations was created to achieve. I extend to Mr. Freitas do Amaral my warm congratulations on his election as President of this jubilee fiftieth session of the General Assembly. At the same time I wish to express appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, for his very successful work. On 3 October 1995, in a cowardly terrorist act, an attempt was made on the life of the President of the Republic of Macedonia, Kiro Gligorov. This assassination attempt was a deliberate political act intended to destabilize my country. It was carried out, not insignificantly, at a time when the centuries-old dream of the Macedonian people for their own State and for an equal role in the international community had come true. Furthermore, it happened at the very time when the resolution of the situation in the Balkans was in sight and when all of our neighbours and the world had come to accept the fact that the Republic of Macedonia was a reality, and a factor of peace and stability. The attempt to assassinate President Gligorov is an attack against the independent and peace-loving position of Macedonia. It is directed against life in peace and against the well-being of all our citizens. This terrorist act has been strongly condemned and decisively rejected by all of my countrymen, as well as by the international community. The efforts of the United Nations against terrorism — a criminal phenomenon — must continue with a strong determination to wipe this scourge out completely. We should all fight unabatedly against the forces of darkness and the power-hungry demagogues who are the main source and generator of criminal terrorist activities. The attempt to assassinate my President on 3 October 1995 shall not, under any circumstances, divert us in our pursuit of democracy, reforms, and the development of good-neighbourly relations with all of our neighbours, in brief, our efforts to transform our country into a modern European State. I wish to take this opportunity to express to the President of the General Assembly, the Secretary-General and all delegations in this body our sincere gratitude for their sympathy and solidarity and for their wishes for the speedy recovery of my President. As our Organization approaches the next 50 years, as we approach the twenty-first century, it is timely to acknowledge and pay tribute to the great achievements of the United Nations in bringing about a better and safer world and to stress the need to work together to improve our Organization and prepare for the challenges of the future. Throughout the past 50 years, the United Nations has been the right place in which to build better understanding among nations, the right place in which to address some of the basic problems and needs of humanity and the right place in which to coordinate actions towards a brighter future for mankind. The United Nations assisted in achieving peace in many regions of the world; it succeeded in preventing many conflicts; it helped in decolonization; it delivered humanitarian assistance; it succeeded in minimizing the nuclear threat and in building bridges over many gulfs between countries all over the world. In the past few years, very important decisions have been adopted at many United Nations conferences, such 14 as the Earth Summit in Rio, the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen, the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in New York and the discussions on land-mines at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva. We must work to implement the decisions made at these conferences. We must work on finalizing the comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty, and on furthering the disarmament process. At the same time, we must also begin working towards finding solutions to, and preventing, the new problems and challenges that we are facing in this ever-changing world. Rapid technological progress brings new hope for a better future but also puts dangerous power into the hands of some of the worst enemies of our civilization. We have to design new mechanisms that will enable us to face these new challenges and enable the United Nations to achieve new successes in the next 50 years. On the basis of the experience of the past 50 years, we will have to examine the functioning of the United Nations system as a whole, to restructure some of its parts, and to assign new tasks to some of the others for the purpose of achieving the efficiency of the Organization as a whole. The United Nations must have as its vision a world that is more stable, politically and economically. The recent agreement between Israel and Palestine gives hope for lasting peace in the Middle East. We strongly support the Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development and hope that, at this session, we will carry out this most important undertaking successfully. Economic development is necessary for political and social stability. For many countries access to markets and the question of finances for development are of essential importance. We must also ensure that the United Nations shall continue to be financially viable. Each Member of the United Nations, however large or small, has an obligation to do its share. We must also discuss the possible improvement of the work of the Security Council. To this end, my delegation fully supports the inclusion of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council. At this session of the General Assembly, I can assure the President of the General Assembly that he will have the full support of the Macedonian delegation in bringing to a successful conclusion the many important issues we have on the agenda. I would like to take this opportunity to thank this General Assembly for giving us the important duty of presiding over the Second Committee. We attach particular significance to the economic issues that will be discussed there. The Republic of Macedonia, despite difficult conditions, achieved its independence peacefully, without the use of force and with respect for all international norms. In a region so burdened by tragic wars, a region with violations of human rights, with a high degree of instability, we have pursued the path of our independence with a strong commitment to resolve all of our problems and conflicts peacefully, through dialogue, with good will, with readiness for cooperation with all of our neighbours and with all international organizations. We are determined to contribute, within the framework of our capabilities, to the overcoming of all of the divisions and conflicts in the Balkans inherited from the past and to pursue the integration of our country into Europe as soon as possible, with respect for all of the European norms and standards of relations between countries as the only means to avoid repeating the tragic incidents of this region. One of the basic principles of our foreign policy is that of equidistance in our relations with our neighbours, a readiness to establish equally good relations with all of our neighbours, based on mutual respect, the inviolability of borders, non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries, and non-use of force. Recently in this building, under the auspices of the United Nations, through the mediation of Cyrus Vance, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and Matthew Nimetz, Special Envoy of President Clinton, my country, the Republic of Macedonia, reached an accord with the Republic of Greece which regulates many aspects of relations between the two countries, and creates a basis for good- neighbourly cooperation. We believe that this accord will contribute to increased stability in the Balkans and will have a positive influence on the future development of events in the region. We believe this accord is a good illustration of the positive role of the international community, and especially of the United Nations, in pursuing peaceful solutions in relations between States, based on the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The Republic of Macedonia, during its four years of independence, has faced many challenges. The economy of the whole region was deeply disturbed by the war to 15 the north of us. As a result of the United Nations sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro, the usual route to our traditional markets in Europe was cut off. The losses caused to our economy by the sanctions amount to over $4 billion. Since February 1994, we have also been under a unilateral trade embargo from the south. In the same period, we have undertaken a thorough transformation of our economy, turning it into a market-oriented economy, with all of the difficulties and risks that this transition brings. Despite all of this, we have succeeded in maintaining a high level of political, social and economic stability. We have built new democratic institutions with provisions for full protection of human rights and a political system in which all national minorities are recognized and enjoy full participation. We cannot claim that we have solved all of our problems. However, we have built the right mechanisms for solving them. A great deal of attention has been given during this session of the General Assembly to United Nations peace- keeping operations. The enormous efforts of the United Nations in many peace-keeping operations have had varied results. Some of them have been more successful than others. Allow me to say a few words about the United Nations peace-keeping operation in the Republic of Macedonia, the United Nations Preventive Deployment Force (UNPREDEP). It is a very successful operation and is fully achieving its goals. It has contributed tremendously to peace and stability in the southern Balkans and has built confidence among the people of the Republic of Macedonia in international organizations. This operation proves that preventive deployment is the most effective channel for United Nations peace-keeping efforts. This operation is the best example that results can be achieved even with a small, almost symbolic deployment of United Nations peace-keepers, if it is done at the right time and with a clear mandate. The full support the people of the Republic of Macedonia are giving this operation shows that the right decision was made by the Security Council when this peace-keeping operation was approved. This has been a very successful operation, and we hope it will serve as a model for many future activities of the United Nations; if so, I am confident that the same positive results will be achieved. These days there is new hope that peace in Bosnia can be achieved. This tragic war has resulted in huge numbers of victims, a large-scale humanitarian catastrophe and massive destruction. We hope that the efforts of the international community will result in a solution which will respect the basic principles of the modern world. Bosnia should be preserved as an independent State within its internationally recognized borders. Provision must be made for full respect of human rights, and repetition of atrocities and war crimes must never be allowed. We believe that as soon as peace is achieved it will be necessary to start the process of the reduction of arms in the Balkans, to start the process of a Balkan détente. This year the General Assembly, under item 81 of its agenda, will consider the report of the Secretary- General on the development of good-neighbourly relations among Balkan States, prepared on the basis of resolution 48/84 B, adopted at its forty-eighth session on the proposal of the Macedonian delegation. It is expected that special attention will be paid to measures and preventive activities aimed at the creation of a stable zone of peace and cooperation in the Balkans by the year 2000. The only way to achieve long-term peace and stability in the whole Balkan region is through the full integration of all the Balkan countries into Europe, with full respect for European standards and norms. The independence, territorial integrity and inviolability of the borders of all Balkan countries must be respected. Problems of national minorities that have been at the root of many conflicts in the Balkans throughout its history should be addressed. All national minorities should be recognized and their basic human rights fully respected. It is our duty to work for peace and the democratic development of the whole Balkan region now, and not to leave burdens of the past to future generations. Just as we must work for the stabilization of the Balkan region as a whole, we must also recognize the uniqueness of each of the countries of the region. The problems are not identical, and therefore the solutions cannot be identical. There are a lot of discussions about the problems of former Yugoslavia. It is very important to understand that there is no such entity as former Yugoslavia”. There are a number of new countries in this area, each with their own set of problems and prospects, and there is no way to find a unified solution for these problems. Each country must be treated individually. The hope and desire for a better world were the foundations for the United Nations 50 years ago. At this session of the General Assembly, it is our duty to lay the groundwork for the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century. We should all work together towards a safer world and to reduce the fears and threats of the future as much as possible. Allow me at the outset, on behalf of my delegation, to extend my warm congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. Coinciding as it does with the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, your election is indeed evidence of the esteem in which you and your country, Portugal, are held by the international community. You can be assured of the full cooperation of the delegation of Niger. To your predecessor, Foreign Minister Amara Essy, who has just added to his rich career the record of a job well done here, I convey my best wishes for success in his future activities. In this transitional year in our Organization’s history, I should also like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the dynamic manner in which he is performing his duties at the head of our Organization. 10 A half century has gone by since the creation of the United Nations at San Francisco in 1945. Hence, this year’s session affords us a unique opportunity to recognize the importance of the historic gesture by which the leaders of the day created the Organization as well as to renew our faith in the ideals and principles of the Charter, which unquestionably stands as one of the most important documents available to mankind for building the world of tomorrow. For young States like Niger, which acceded to international sovereignty 35 years ago, it would be remiss to overlook the forceful role the United Nations has played in the emancipation of peoples and its invaluable contribution to the progress of mankind as a crucible of international cooperation in the political, economic, social and cultural spheres. Fifty years after the creation of the United Nations the threats created by the cold war, which long paralysed it, have disappeared, making way for healthier and more constructive cooperation between States. This new climate enabled the Organization to extend, a year ago, an emotional welcome to South Africa following its successful victory over the system of apartheid, thus closing after many years one of the most painful items on its agenda. Since the Madrid Conference, the Middle East too has moved along the irreversible path to peace, crowned by the signature on 13 September 1993 of the Agreements on autonomy for the Gaza Strip and Jericho. However, this new climate has also created other kinds of threats, threats as formidable as those of the cold-war period and just as disturbing to the peace of many peoples. Conflicts that intermingle nationalism, ethnic rivalries and religious intolerance have erupted in many parts of the world. Democracy, notwithstanding the progress it has made, is finding it hard to take root in countries where worsening poverty, malnutrition, disease and environmental deterioration mete out indescribable suffering. In other words, the global context in which the present session of the General Assembly is meeting is far from giving grounds for complete optimism. This session should furnish us with an opportunity for a fruitful analysis of ways to create a better world, a world free of such atrocities, a world in which mankind will no longer suffer and in which the ideals of peace, true development and justice will prevail. The situation of my country, Niger, like that of many other African States, is still fraught with difficulties of all kinds arising out of a disastrous economic environment. A 50 per cent devaluation of our currency, the CFA franc, in January 1994 dealt a severe blow to the living standard of the population. The economic recovery expected as a result of this fairly drastic monetary step has been delayed, for the collective and uniform nature of the measure made it unsuitable to the specific situations in the various countries affected. Unable to count on a significant increase in its raw-material exports, Niger has, on the contrary, experienced an unreasonable increase in the pressure of its external debt and the cost of imports. Despite that, my Government, in conjunction with the Bretton Woods institutions, has undertaken a programme of economic structural adjustment based on a policy of systematic restructuring of the public and semi-public sectors combined with a balancing of macroeconomic aggregates based on a substantial improvement in State revenues and a reining in of public expenditure. Politically speaking, the democratic process entered into in 1990 is being pursued and expanded, although it continues to experience the growing pains that accompany any new experiment — excesses and abuses of new-found freedoms, a tendency to civic impunity, the excessive growth of all kinds of interest groups, special interests, and so on. However, the existence of active trade unions, an independent and free press and a dynamic civil society are creating the basis for a lasting democratic structure capable of ensuring respect for the rule of law and contributing to the gradual growth of a democratic culture. After less than four years of institutionalized democracy, Niger held elections for President and for the Legislature. The holding of the last set of elections for the Legislature, advanced to January 1995, was entrusted to an independent electoral commission headed by a magistrate and made up primarily of persons from the Non-Governmental Organization sector, and from human rights organizations and organizations advocating democracy. Several international observers witnessed the vote and all of them said that it was a model of transparency and equity. These elections resulted in a majority in Parliament for the opposition parties. Thus, since that time, Niger has been living under a regime where the presidential minority does not coincide with the parliamentary majority. This so-called cohabitation regime is the most delicate form of the distribution of 11 constitutional powers and of relations between the different institutions of the Republic. Despite all the difficulties inherent in the exceptionally delicate and unprecedented experience we are undergoing, the regular functioning of the institutional machinery has never been found wanting. The Supreme Court, the institution entrusted with interpreting the Constitution and stating the law on the basis of which the operation of the Republic’s institutions can be ensured, has played a crucial role. Systematic reliance on the machinery of law has been an option of principle supported by the entire political community, which constitutes its dedication to the rule of law and to the stability as well as the security of the country. It is precisely to ensure the country’s security and stability that my Government undertook all the efforts that finally led to the Agreement of 24 April 1995, between the Government and the leaders of the Tuareg rebellion, joined together in the Armed Resistance Organization. As the Assembly knows, since 1991 there has been in the northern part of Niger an armed rebellion claiming to represent the Tuareg community and calling for the establishment of a federal regime, which it believes is the only one that can provide its people with free self-government. The discussions undertaken with the leaders of the rebellion constantly stressed the need to avoid useless bloodshed, and to focus on dialogue, the major focus of which would be the best interests of the country. Thanks to mediation efforts by the friendly countries of Algeria, Burkina Faso and France, to which I once again extend the gratitude of the Nigerian people, we were able on 24 April 1995 to sign a definitive peace agreement. That agreement, based on the principle of respect for the constitution, which enshrines the indivisibility of the Republic, emphasizes two main elements: first, at the political level, the agreement recommends the acceleration of the establishment of decentralized structures and a consequent devolution of administrative and political powers to those structures; secondly, at the economic level, the agreement recommends the implementation of a special programme of economic and social development in the northern part of the country. With respect to the first aspect of the commitments undertaken in this important agreement, the responsibility of the Government is almost exclusive. But that is not true of the second aspect. Indeed, it is quite clear that the motives for this rebellion, which started at the very time when the country had embarked on the road to democracy and institutionalization of freedoms, are primarily economic. The northern area of Niger, after the past few years of cyclical draught, was in a highly precarious condition due to the upheaval of its ecosystem. Livestock grazing became highly problematic, condemning nomadic communities to wandering and inducing in them a feeling of malaise, which quickly led to claims for a separate identity. The only way to deal appropriately with this rebellion, which is, after all, only a symptom of the real difficulties faced by these people, is to restore hope to all of these hard-hit regions. That is why the peace agreement provides for the holding on 30 and 31 October 1995 of a round-table meeting involving all the countries and institutions linked to Niger, with a view to preparing a special development programme for the northern area. I appeal to all those who wish to help Niger definitively restore and consolidate peace to kindly lend their support to this undertaking. On the international level, the tragic conflicts in Rwanda, Somalia, Liberia and the former Yugoslavia — to refer only to them — bear witness eloquently to the fragility of the international order that emerged from the end of the cold war, and also to the inability of present structures to provide an adequate collective response when national stability breaks down and when the ensuing internal conflicts give rise to unspeakable suffering. The situation of Rwanda is among those which, given their gravity and their undermining of the basic principles of our Organization, deserve special attention. My country is following with great attention the efforts undertaken for a year now by the authorities of Rwanda to overcome the consequences of the tragic events that took place there and to consolidate the work for national reconciliation and lasting peace. The situation in Liberia, after a series of initiatives leading to the establishment of a new Council of State, has taken a truly positive turn. This is an opportunity for me to extend my congratulations to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and to all those whose help has been so useful, in particular President Sani Abacha of Nigeria and President Rawlings of Ghana. I wish to congratulate the people of Liberia on their courage and encourage them to persevere on the path of peace and hope that they have paid so dear a price to find again. In Angola, Niger is following closely the progress achieved along the path to peace and we congratulate President Dos Santos and Mr. Savimbi. Niger is following with the same attention the developing situation in Western Sahara and we deplore the slow pace of the process for the restoration of peace there. 12 With regard to the sanctions imposed on Libya by the Security Council, Niger believes that the constructive proposals made by the authorities of that country constitute a serious basis for a resolution of this crisis, whose consequences are so burdensome to the Libyan population and to neighbouring countries such as Niger. Outside of our continent, Niger welcomed the signing on 13 September 1993 in Washington of the Agreements between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel envisaging autonomy for the Gaza Strip and Jericho. The ensuing dynamic led — after very hard work — to a significant breakthrough with the signing of the Agreement on 28 September 1995 in Washington which extends autonomy to the West Bank. The long tragedy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a Member State of the United Nations, gives rise to many questions about the capacity of our Organization to ensure respect even for its principles. The Muslim population of that country has suffered too much from the inconsistencies, improvisations and hesitations of the international community, while the Bosnian Serbs, grand masters of fait accompli politics, have been allowed to calmly continue their abominable practice of “ethnic cleansing”, calling seriously into question the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Niger welcomed the military pressure exercised upon the Serbs by our Organization and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization last September, and we warmly welcome the latest peace initiatives led by the United States of America with a view to the return of peace to that region. We hope that this great stride will provide a basis for bringing about just and lasting peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Fifty years after its creation, the United Nations must strengthen its mission of promoting dialogue and cooperation between peoples. It must, even more than in the past, work to limit tensions as far as possible, and to settle conflicts when they erupt but, in particular, to prevent situations that could threaten international peace and security. In this spirit, in this special year in the life of our common Organization and in accordance with the principle of universality enshrined in Article 4 of the Charter, Niger has advocated the establishment of an ad hoc committee to look into the question of the representation of Taiwan. The end of the cold war has not helped to shield the world from the emergence of local conflicts any more than it has made it possible to remove the heavy burden weighing on mankind as a result of the stockpiling and improvement of weapons. However, it is now an established fact that disarmament and the non- proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have a pivotal role to play in preventing conflicts and promoting peace and social and economic development. For this reason, we can congratulate ourselves on the results of the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This Conference, in addition to agreeing on an indefinite extension of the Treaty, agreed that a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty would be concluded in 1996 at the latest. Niger wishes to reaffirm its deep desire to see the negotiations now under way lead to the conclusion of a treaty that comprehensively bans nuclear tests, that is universal and that can be effectively monitored. Our attempts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons should not make us lose sight of the threat of conventional weapons and the need to control them. Niger is pleased to applaud here Mali’s initiative which this year led the Secretary-General of our Organization to dispatch a mission to the subregion of West Africa to assess the negative impact of the illicit circulation of small arms upon the States of the subregion. We support the recommendations made by the Secretary-General following that mission and we retain the hope that the international community, which gave massive support to the relevant resolution, will give the backing that is indispensable for the implementation of these recommendations. In recent years, our Organization has invested heavily in conflict prevention and management. Many resources and a great deal of time have been devoted to this area, sometimes to the detriment of development measures. My delegation, however, remains convinced that there is no greater threat to peace than the current stalemate in dialogue between rich and poor countries and the widening of the various inequalities that have ensued. This session is taking place at a time when the world economic situation is riven by deep-seated imbalances. Although some regions have seen considerable progress, in other regions delays are becoming worse every year, sometimes leading to unprecedented crises. The poorest countries seem to have been left on the sidelines of the progress that the world economy has enjoyed. In some countries the very structures of the State have fallen into 13 complete disrepair and populations have been plunged into the deepest distress. Poverty, hunger and illiteracy plague more than one-fifth of the world’s population and in many parts of the world the situation is becoming dangerously worse. The African continent is requesting, as a priority and urgently, the solidarity of the international community. The weaknesses of its structures persist and frequently grow worse. The current improvement in growth rates are still too weak to compensate for 15 years of economic decline. Economic performances are disappointing even in countries that have undertaken considerable reform. Despite the international community’s commitments in the framework of major conferences and summits of every kind, flows of official development assistance are falling off every year. At a time when developing countries need it most to support their reforms, official development assistance has fallen drastically and the general malaise surrounding this assistance, christened “donor fatigue”, is growing worse and worse. My country regrets that not even the Economic and Social Council high level segment on the development of Africa, including the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, nor the Mid-Term Global Review of the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s which has just ended, has made it possible for the international community to arrive at a set of concrete measures that can reverse this trend by creating conditions for sustained and lasting economic recovery and development in the poorest countries. The silent crisis of poverty, disease and illiteracy should inspire the international community to tackle the roots of the evil by adopting a preventive and more consistent approach to the resolution of these problems. The roots of the problem include the burden of external debt which continues to hamper the development efforts of developing countries. Although we recognize the efforts to reschedule and write off debt under the Naples Terms, we must point out that this is not enough. Donor countries are fully aware that they, along with the multilateral financial institutions, are the main creditors of our countries and that a large part of the debt servicing they finance simply returns to their treasuries and those of multilateral institutions. Financial flows on favourable terms are not usually enough to make up the financing deficit of poor countries. Comprehensive and lasting solutions are needed if problems are to be solved once and for all. The radical structural reforms that developing countries, especially the least developed among them, have undertaken in their economies have proved to be very costly in social and political terms and have not been given sufficient support by the international community. Although structural adjustment remains indispensable to remedy serious economic imbalances, the needs and priorities of the poorest and most vulnerable people should not be neglected. Adjustment and transformation must be designed to improve the well-being of populations. There is good reason to encourage in practice Governments to persevere, but they must also be helped to attenuate the severe impact of such reforms. The struggle against poverty was one of the principal topics of the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen last March. The international community made courageous commitments, which we welcome, in particular the commitment to supply the financial resources necessary for integrated strategies to combat poverty, unemployment and social exclusion. We remain hopeful that these commitments will be translated into action and initiatives at both the national and international levels. The Fourth World Conference on Women that has just recently ended in Beijing is also a landmark of our time in so far as the international community reaffirmed there the importance of the role of women, the main actor in and beneficiary of development, and committed itself to devoting greater resources to improving the status of women and their access to the political and economic life of our countries. The Agenda for Development, which is now being drafted and unanimously heralded as complementing the “Agenda for Peace” should provide the international community with a new opportunity, in addition to just reaffirming principles, to focus on producing resources commensurate with the task of implementing concrete development initiatives. A whole series of world conferences in recent years has enabled us to forge a new vision of global development and to define the measures needed to turn that vision into reality. The international community must urgently give tangible proof of its commitment to progress along the path it has chosen. 14 Any delay can only make the remedy that much more difficult and costly. The commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, marking a half-century of the existence of our Organization, is highly symbolic and we would be ill advised not to make judicious use of these symbols. This is such a rare occasion that I believe we must take advantage of it. As we commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, it is indeed an honour for me to address this distinguished Assembly. I take pride in conveying to it fraternal and cordial greetings from the new Labour Government and the people of Saint Kitts and Nevis. The United Nations has made noticeable progress and important strides during the past five decades through sheer determination, assiduity and the unrelenting faith of its Members. This is faith in an Organization that has been able to balance the interests of the weak with those of the strong, faith in our collective will to preserve democracy, promote peace and improve the quality of life for all our peoples. The occasion of the convening of this historic session of the United Nations General Assembly provides an important impetus to galvanize our Governments to reaffirm our commitment to the causes of world peace, international security and development. This faith represents the very essence of what we celebrate not only this year, but every year as well. Fifty years ago a few men of great courage and vision cast aside national differences to come together to plant new seeds of hope in a future that would one day bear fruit for humankind to enjoy. The historic legacy of cooperation and partnership that triumphed over individualism should burn like an eternal flame in our minds, serving to remind us all that peace, one of the most precious of commodities, is not ours to squander, but merely on loan to us. We have a solemn responsibility to pass it on to future generations. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis salutes those visionaries of half a century ago and thanks them for the rich legacy bequeathed to us all. I wish to join other delegations in expressing warmest congratulations and good wishes to you, Sir, our new President, elected to preside over the Assembly in this landmark year in the history of the United Nations. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis wishes to assure you, Mr. President, of its continued cooperation and support. We are confident that your presidency will be marked by adroit leadership, which will ensure a successful outcome to these deliberations. On behalf of my Government, I am pleased to express gratitude to the outgoing president, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for his diligence and able guidance in a year characterized by varying degrees of political turmoil and other serious challenges. I salute the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tenacious leadership, his goodwill, and his diplomatic skills par excellence, which have been tested with great frequency since he took office a few years ago. My Government congratulates the Secretary-General on the outstanding manner in which he has carried out the mandates of the Organization with regard to peace-keeping and humanitarian efforts. As our nations continue to work together to build a better future for our peoples, I wish to assure him of my Government’s continued cooperation, support and goodwill. As regards human rights, my Government is of the view that, as an international fraternity of nations, we find it incumbent on us all to remember that every single human being has an inalienable right to freedom, to the pursuit of happiness and to a better standard of life. The sanctity of human life is not negotiable; it is paramount. My Government remains steadfast in its own efforts, and supports those of the United Nations to protect and preserve human rights. I now call attention to the question of representative democracy. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis warmly welcomes the unprecedented pace of democratic reforms taking place around the world. However, we are concerned with the growing complexities of recurrent problems and the emergence of new and more complicated ones which still pose serious threats to world peace and international security. Consequently, my delegation commends the resolve of the United Nations and its willing leadership to steer Member States along a steady and purposeful course through the turbulent seas of political upheavals. It is encouraging to see that, despite obvious problems, democracy continues to spring up in the far-flung corners of the world. This should propel us to channel our collective energies into ensuring that those peoples still yearning for a taste of freedom will one day come to experience the triumph of democracy. The Caribbean breathed a sigh of relief when the horrid spectre of dictatorship was removed from the Haitian landscape. Finally, the people of Haiti can begin to harvest the rewards of peace as they proceed to build a lasting and viable democracy. At present the Caribbean and Latin America enjoy a period of relative peace and the rule of law. We wish for this to continue infinitely. It is certainly not my intention to be the harbinger of doom. However, we cannot afford to take this situation for granted, because history bears frightening and credible witness to the fact that political instability and poverty in areas where democracy is fragile, tend to form a treacherous alliance. Democracy as a mere concept, without the requisite support of infrastructural development and institution- building, cannot survive. In order for democracy to remain viable in countries which are unaccustomed to it and/or which suffer from high or increasing levels of poverty, democracy should be buttressed with the appropriate support systems. My Government firmly believes that the United Nations is a people’s Organization. Therefore, we the Members should impress upon the poor masses, which are often easily led and misled, that democracy works, that it can work for them, and that eventually, if given a chance, it will deliver the political and material benefits they require to improve their lives. I wish to state here clearly that my Government is not appealing for hand-outs. On the contrary, we appeal for a reliable hand of genuine cooperation and partnership. Because our countries share a common world community, with common concerns and interests, we should become our brother’s keeper. Failure to work together effectively means that we foreclose the possibility of learning from the past, and at the same time, we shall be burning the bridges to the future, built with selfless courage by our predecessors. It appears that whenever we succeed in solving one major problem another more complicated one is foisted upon us. The post-cold-war world has given way to the re-emergence of agonizing, old ethnic tensions, worsening levels of poverty and widening economic inequalities which, together, continue to force their way to the top of 2 the international agenda. These new challenges require innovative and collective strategies. They require partnership. The prevalence and the length of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia seem to elude attempts at an effective and lasting solution. None the less, we support the international efforts to find a diplomatic resolution of this conflict. Therefore, my Government welcomes the timely initiatives of the United States Government, which we consider to be crucial in laying the groundwork for future progress in ending the war. Also, we wish to compliment efforts by the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to broker a lasting peace in the former Yugoslavia. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis strongly condemns the outrageous and cowardly acts of genocide, “ethnic cleansing” and indiscriminate killing of the innocent and helpless, on all sides in this brutal conflict. It is my Government’s sincerest hope that the persons found to be responsible for these atrocities will be brought to justice. I wish now to turn to another volatile region, the Middle East, which has for a long time been one of the lingering trouble spots in world affairs. Times are changing, and in the interest of peace some Governments in the region have begun to respond to these changes by taking appropriate steps to reconcile their differences and to ensure that their peoples can live together in peace. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis applauds the initiatives of the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization to rescue peace from the clutches of terrorism and violence. This augurs well for peace not only in the disputed territories but also throughout the Middle East. Further, we urge nations in the region to respect Israel’s right to exist and to follow the lead of the recent accord reached between the Governments of Israel and the Kingdom of Jordan. We hope that other countries in the region will heed the call of peace and use diplomacy in the pursuit of their objectives. Also, we urge all Governments to declare war on terrorism and to make a commitment to its eradication, wherever it may lurk. My Government is unambiguous in its belief that an act of terror against any man, anywhere, is an act of terror against all mankind, everywhere. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis welcomes the decision taken last year by the Iraqi Government to recognize the State of Kuwait. Kuwait’s territorial integrity and sovereignty must be maintained. We also call on the Government of Iraq to comply with all United Nations resolutions and to release all Kuwaiti nationals detained illegally in Iraq. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis is convinced that the United Nations is about people. Consequently, we expect this Organization to advance the causes of all our peoples. To achieve this, however, Member Governments must fulfil their obligations to the Organization so that it can function more effectively. At the same time, the United Nations has to accept that it is accountable to its vast membership. Also, Member Governments and the Organization should seek to reconcile this critical relationship and work more closely in the future to devise new approaches to problem- solving, development and security. The time has come for us to change the way we do business. Our Government is in favour of the reform of the Security Council to reflect the current configuration of world affairs. I should like to focus the Assembly’s attention on the question of membership. As we all are well aware, one of the fundamental principles of this Organization is that of universality of membership. My Government perceives the United Nations as a people’s organization; therefore, we believe that Member States will appreciate the need to consider the timely readmittance of the Republic of China on Taiwan to this body. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis maintains that that country’s 21 million inhabitants have the right to be appropriately represented in this Organization. Taiwan continues to comply with international law and has taken due steps to ensure the democratization of its politics and respect for and protection of human rights. I now wish to refer to the important subjects of, first, the vulnerability of small island States and, secondly, sustainable development. Although these issues are not new, my Government remains convinced that the international community cannot afford to forget them. We commend the United Nations for hosting a Conference last year in Barbados to address these crucial issues. However, we need to go further. This will require partnership, cooperation and resolve from both developing and developed nations. Many small island nations are painfully aware of the potential dangers that environmental degradation holds for 3 small island States like Saint Kitts and Nevis. Some of these dangers are: rising sea levels, coastal erosion, sea pollution and natural disasters. These problems are easily compounded, because small island States with limited resources, such as those in the Caribbean, lack the financial and technological capabilities to deal with them. The environmental vulnerability of small island States is intricately interwoven with our economic dependency and openness to external forces. My delegation therefore appeals to the international financial community to review its policies on concessional lending to small island States. Statistics can be quite misleading. The tendency to judge a country and its people’s development based on figures such as per capita income quite easily distort the objective reality of our situation. Just last month, for example, Saint Kitts and Nevis was ravaged by two hurricanes. Unfortunately, the passage of the first was sufficient to disrupt seriously the daily lives of my people, to destroy the physical infrastructure, and to undermine severely the economic life of both islands. My country’s main export crop, sugar, was almost completely wiped out, and prospects for the 1996 sugar harvest are discouraging. Further, my country’s main hospital suffered extensive damage, placing the health of the people of Saint Kitts and Nevis at great risk. I take this opportunity to thank the international community for the quick response in providing emergency relief to the people of Saint Kitts and Nevis. This, first and foremost, is the reality of small island States. It is this reality — not cold statistics — that should inform world policies towards them. Returning to the subject of the environment, my delegation puts forward the view that, to a large extent, our islands have inherited problems that are not always of our own making. This is not meant to lay blame. On the contrary, we wish to suggest that all countries take appropriate measures to reduce the possibility of environmental degradation and that those in a position to help in environmental protection lend assistance to those unable to do so. My delegation makes a fervent appeal to the developed world not to link the granting of development assistance to guarantees of environmental protection from developing countries. Instead, we propose a much closer and more constructive working relationship aimed at creating more meaningful, long-term strategies to solve environmental problems. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis vehemently condemns attempts by some countries to use the waterways of the Caribbean as a transshipment lane for their toxic and hazardous wastes. Clearly, this region suffers from a high vulnerability index. We therefore cannot afford any increase in this index. We call on countries responsible to find safer and more appropriate means of dealing with their toxic and hazardous waste. Saint Kitts and Nevis categorically supports the indefinite, unconditional extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and we anxiously await the successful conclusion of negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty. Also, we urge all nations to impose a ban on nuclear tests. With regard to women in development, we applaud the convening of the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing to examine issues affecting women throughout the world. We appeal to Member States to go beyond the conference halls and to make genuine efforts to promote the interests of women. The protection of human rights and the pursuit of sustainable development cannot be viewed as distinct from the development of women and their rights. They must go hand in hand. Women play a central and critical role in the process of development. Their contributions should be recognized and rewarded appropriately. My Government is committed to further legislation to eliminate gender discrimination and to institute policies that address the inequalities that women face. We also have a duty to protect the lives of our children and to ensure that we provide them with adequate protection for their individual growth and future prosperity. We hold their future in trust, and we therefore have a sacred responsibility to them, as well as to future generations. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis strongly condemns any form of discrimination and violence against women and children. We urge all Governments to wage war on the barbarism of child prostitution, infanticide and abortion on discovery that the foetus is female. The right to life is fundamental, universal and sacred. 4 In conclusion, the catalogue of problems confronting our nations bears ample testimony to the tremendous tasks ahead of us. Our countries share common goals such as the pursuit of peace, world security, and better standards of living for all our peoples. Our predecessors have sown the seeds, and today we celebrate their legacy. My Government is convinced that we can achieve our individual goals by working collectively. And indeed we can. I know we can. Most importantly, we owe it to those who elected us, as well as to those who will follow. As we, the peoples of the world, celebrate our past achievements, let us resolve to achieve even greater successes in the years ahead. May I extend our congratulations to you, Sir, upon your election as President of the General Assembly at this historic fiftieth session. The delegation of Hungary stands ready to do its fair share in assisting you in the fulfilment of your important responsibilities. The 50-year-old United Nations is a living witness to our successes and failures. In many quarters, the question is raised whether the United Nations has a credibility problem at this important juncture of its history. We have to remind ourselves that the capacity of the United Nations to act is nothing but the reflection of the will and determination of its Member States. With the euphoria over the end of the cold war gone, we ought to take a hard look at the role the United Nations is called upon to play in a dramatically altered, often fluid international environment where shared values may not automatically yield converging interests. The Charter provides us with valuable guidance for distinguishing sound international order and stability from the expedience of appeasement. The question is whether the international community is always ready to act accordingly by taking a firm stand against aggression, heinous crimes against humanity and flagrant infringements on the human rights and fundamental freedoms of millions of individuals around the globe. We believe that there can be no place for complacency when we witness devastating wars, lawlessness, the suffering of civilian populations and widespread human misery. There is no positive answer to the question whether, in spite of the absence of the threat of a new world catastrophe, we can keep our planet safe and secure. A fundamentally changed global political environment, as bipolarism fades away, cannot prevent the outbreak of local wars, internal conflicts or ethnic strife. The values and principles we hold so dear seem to be distant dreams against the backdrop of horrors occurring in places remote for some, but dangerously close to others. We have come to realize the growing importance of effective regional tools in addressing this new type of mostly internal conflicts, where the rule of law and accountable national administrations are often non- existent, where warlords and other unscrupulous leaders lead campaigns of intimidation, “ethnic cleansing” and genocide in an atmosphere of nationalism and hatred. Throughout the years, the United Nations has achieved a number of important successes by brokering peace agreements, conducting peace-keeping operations, improving humanitarian situations and promoting national reconciliation. The world Organization is better equipped to deal with traditional conflict situations. However, it has yet to prepare itself for meeting all the new and alarming challenges. While the United Nations cannot realistically manage all the crises occurring world wide, because of its unique role and responsibility in the maintenance of international peace and security, it should seek to strengthen global political consensus on the principles of the Charter, assist, through its preventive capacity, in the formulation of regional strategies and efforts and take decisive action when regional or global security is seriously challenged. Today’s conflicts call for a more coherent yet decentralized United Nations response capability. Streamlining and rationalizing the Organization should be the order of the day, not only to eliminate waste and overlap, but also to make the best use of existing political and financial resources. We also fully support the Secretary-General’s efforts to improve coordination between United Nations organs and agencies with a view to enhancing the early-warning, stand-by and rapid- reaction capacities of the Organization, which should focus on all the political, security, social, economic- ecological, humanitarian and human rights areas of United Nations activity. As regards the reform efforts in general, one should bear in mind that agreement on such diverse issues as the elimination of the enemy-States clause from the Charter or the reform of the financing of peace-keeping operations cannot be achieved overnight. We hope that the 9 establishment of an open-ended working group of the General Assembly, chaired by its President, will be an important milestone in this highly complex endeavour. We welcome the important measures already implemented and are looking forward to others which are designed to enhance the transparency and effectiveness of the functioning of the Security Council. The main mission of the United Nations is to make the world a safer place for all. After a series of United Nations conferences on the most important global problems, such as environment, human rights, population and social development, and the recently concluded World Conference on Women, we ought to focus our attention on the practical implementation of their recommendations. Earlier this year the international community extended for an indefinite period the validity of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Hungary had supported from the very beginning the idea of indefinite extension, for we are convinced that this major international instrument promotes stability by preventing the spread of the nuclear arsenal and at the same time aims at the orderly development of nuclear cooperation for peaceful purposes. We hope that the security guarantees given to the non-nuclear States by the permanent members of the Security Council, as well as the prospects of a thorough review of the operation of the Treaty — including the obligations in the field of nuclear disarmament, especially the early conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty — will open up further possibilities for progress in this area. The tragedy in the former Yugoslavia has revealed, not only where brutality and the trampling of elementary norms of international law and human behaviour can lead, but also the devastating consequences of unwillingness to enforce the legitimate decisions of the international community. What we have seen was that the Security Council, and consequently the United Nations as a whole, was either unable or unwilling to follow through its own resolutions, thus leaving the initiative to those whose only argument was and is naked force and the policy of the fait accompli. The crisis in the Balkans is a serious and tragic reminder that the Security Council can preserve its authority and credibility only if there is a unity of action which ensures the full and timely implementation of its resolutions. Another important lesson to be drawn from the handling of this crisis is that adequate early-warning and preventive machineries should be put in place to forestall the eruption of further tragedies and conflicts. The Republic of Hungary, being a neighbouring country to three of the new States that emerged on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, is vitally interested in peaceful and good-neighbourly cooperation with all of them and in the early settlement of the conflict by political means, on the basis of the purposes and principles of the Charter, international law and the resolutions of the Security Council. In our view, a visible and credible international presence, backed up by international resolve to guarantee the implementation of decisions taken, is essential for this purpose. We believe that no comprehensive and lasting arrangements can be worked out for this conflict if two, so far quite neglected, factors are not taken fully into account. First, any solution should incorporate the human rights dimension, including effective guarantees for minority rights in accordance with international standards. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to the former Special Rapporteur for the Commission on Human Rights, Mr. Tadeusz Mazowiecki, for his untiring efforts consistently to uphold the values of our civilization. Neither massive economic assistance, nor a huge international presence can make a real difference if the human rights questions are left unaddressed. Secondly, the security of the subregion, and, indeed, of Europe as a whole, is threatened by massive arms stockpiles, mostly left over from the previous period, when the former Yugoslavia — not being a party to the Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) — maintained significant armed forces, in fact, one of the relatively largest in Europe. It is of vital importance, therefore, to work out, in the context of the settlement, arrangements to reduce conventional armaments on the territory of former Yugoslavia. The acquisition of territory by force and the accompanying abhorrent phenomenon of “ethnic cleansing” in the former Yugoslavia led to the destruction of entire regions. It triggered a forced population movement unseen in Europe since the Second World War. Today, when we are about to enter the fifth year of the war and the diplomatic efforts to find a solution are continuing, we should not lose sight of political responsibilities and personal accountabilities for the initiation of this drama. The sick ideas of ethnically pure, homogenous, single-nation States had started a vicious cycle of vengeance that claimed the lives of over 100,000 people and forced millions of others to flee, many of them seeking refuge in neighbouring and other countries. In this regard, the settlement of refugees in new areas 10 traditionally inhabited by other national minorities in order to change their century-old ethnic composition is contrary to international law. It is even more so if it is being conducted by forcible means and through intimidation, as has happened to the Croat and Hungarian minorities in the Vojvodina province of Serbia. The Government of Hungary has, on several occasions, expressed its grave concern about the negative impact of the conflict on the ethnic composition of the population concerned. From this rostrum, I should like to call the attention of the international community again to the need to elaborate a comprehensive settlement, in the framework of which the question of the refugees should be so resolved as to respect the interests of each and every ethnic community. Any settlement must include the development and implementation of agreements that ensure the survival of these communities, respect their human rights and fundamental freedoms, including minority rights, and encourage the establishment of institutions that guarantee those rights in the long run. The issue of human rights and fundamental freedoms remains in the forefront of our attention. Protection and promotion of these rights is not only a voluntarily undertaken obligation of all Members of the United Nations, but a responsibility the implementation of which can be legitimately scrutinized by the international community. In Vienna, we closed the debate on the universality of human rights by adopting the document of the World Conference on Human Rights and restating universality in its own right as our guiding principle since the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The legitimate role of the United Nations acting in defence of human rights should therefore be supported and strengthened. With renewed waves of human rights violations occurring worldwide, mostly in internal conflicts or ethnic strife, our Organization has to step up its early-warning and preventive capacities, develop an integrated response mechanism encompassing field visits and monitors, a closer integration of the human rights element in peace-keeping activities and ensuring effective interaction in the implementation of political, peace-keeping, human rights and humanitarian mandates. International presence, particularly preventive protection, is a most efficient deterrent in curbing violations and preventing their escalation. The establishment of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCR) was built on the premise of giving more coherence and visibility to human rights activities within the United Nations system. However, our commitment to human rights rings hollow without constant efforts to improve the efficiency of the United Nations human rights machinery, focusing on prevention, on-site monitoring and developing a rapid- response capacity. May I now address the General Assembly in my capacity as Chairman-in-Office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). The cooperation between the United Nations and the OSCE has significantly developed on both political and operational levels since the December 1994 Budapest summit. As the OSCE, a regional organization in the sense of Chapter VIII of the Charter, embarks on so-far- uncharted waters in conflict prevention and crisis management, the advice and assistance of the United Nations proves to be an important asset, for which I would like to express our appreciation to the Secretary- General. Based on the agreement concluded between the two organizations, we have indeed developed flexible forms of cooperation, not only in the political area, but in our joint efforts on humanitarian issues, human rights, sanctions-monitoring and operational presence. At present, the OSCE has missions in Georgia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, Ukraine, Tajikistan, Nagorno- Karabakh, Estonia, Latvia and Chechnya. We are also about to establish one in Croatia. We find it indispensable that the OSCE mission to Kosovo, Sandjak and Vojvodina in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) resume its activities, in accordance with the relevant resolution of the Security Council. Though the mandates of these OSCE missions vary, they still point in the same direction, namely assisting the parties involved in finding a political solution to their differences on the basis of OSCE principles and commitments. OSCE helps to monitor and verify cease- fire accords, supervise troop withdrawals, establish negotiating structures and principles for talks on national reconciliation and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It has to be added that in some cases the OSCE has to work hard to obtain the necessary political endorsement of the parties to engage in a peaceful and structured political process and offer mutual concessions. 11 I wish to express our appreciation of the peace efforts in Bosnia and Herzegovina which, in this very city of New York only two days ago, yielded the so-called “further agreed basic principles”. As its Chairman-in-Office, I can see that it is extremely important that the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe may soon find itself in a new, important and challenging role as an active participant in the course of the implementation of the long- awaited Bosnian peace accords. In making use of the mutually reinforcing capabilities of the United Nations and the OSCE, the Hungarian Chairmanship-in-Office of the organization for 1995 is determined to strengthen both organizations. I remain convinced that the further development of this cooperation in the vast area from Alaska to Kamchatka will, with the active support of Members, bring us closer to the realization of the noble ideals set forth in the Charter 50 years ago. On behalf of the Indonesian delegation I should like to offer our congratulations to Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election as President of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that under his able guidance we will make substantive progress in our work. To his distinguished predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, I should like to convey our deep appreciation for the exemplary manner in which he presided over the Assembly at the last session. I also wish to pay tribute to our esteemed Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedicated endeavours in pursuing the objectives of the United Nations Charter and for his untiring efforts for the cause of peace and development. We observe the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations at a most crucial time in the history of humankind. In this post-cold-war era, we have been confronted by global changes so profound and massive that we are just beginning to understand some of their ramifications. These changes have generated challenges and contradictory trends in international relations which have cast a dark shadow on our contemporary world and intensified our sense of uncertainty as we stand on the threshold of a new century. On the other hand, a deepening sense of interdependence has prompted nations to devise more equitable and mutually beneficial patterns of cooperation — and this has provided us with a new source of hope. Fittingly indeed, on this fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, hope is the dominant feeling in the world today just as it was hope, for a more peaceful and tolerant world, which inspired the founding of the United Nations in San Francisco half a century ago. 6 With the Second World War barely over, the international community of that time sought to establish a world organization which would “save succeeding generations from the scourge of war” by instituting a system of collective security based on the repudiation of the use of force “save in the common interest”, and on the basic principles of sovereign equality, freedom, justice and the rule of law. This splendid vision was not to be realized, for soon the cold war set in between two rival military and ideological blocs locked in a struggle for dominance. Power politics and the quest for hegemony and spheres of influence paralysed the collective security system. That may be why the United Nations has not been able to prevent the more than 150 armed conflicts which, since its founding, have erupted in various parts of the world, taking a horrible toll in human lives and material devastation. And that also partly explains the persistence of inequities and imbalances in international economic relations. The United Nations was but a decade old when the first generation of leaders of Asia and Africa, reacting to the debilitating effects of the cold war and the problems besetting the world at the time, met in Bandung to articulate a new ethos which would reaffirm the ideals and principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter and govern relationships between and among nations, great and small. Thus in 1955 the leaders of Asia and Africa laid down the “Dasa Sila of Bandung” — the “Ten Principles of Bandung” — which embodied fundamental principles of inter-State relations in accordance with the spirit of the United Nations Charter. The seeds that germinated in Bandung took firm root six years later in Belgrade with the formal institution of the Non-Aligned Movement. Since then, the Movement has served as a moral and political force that provided an alternative vision to the bloc politics of the cold war. Pursuing that vision, the Movement contributed to the triumph of such causes as the world-wide struggle against colonialism; the drive against institutionalized racism, particularly apartheid; the advocacy for nuclear disarmament, which is finally under way; and, lately, the launching of a global partnership for development. It is no coincidence that these are the very same issues as those on the agenda of the United Nations, for it is precisely within the United Nations and through its processes and institutions that the Non-Aligned Movement has waged its struggles for, and pursued its advocacy of, the principles and ideas enshrined in the United Nations Charter and reiterated in the Dasa Sila of Bandung. There is no doubt that the United Nations has served as the principal instrument for the amelioration of the human condition through the pursuit of peace and development. In spite of the constraints to its system of collective security, the United Nations has nevertheless undertaken a large number of peace-keeping and peacemaking operations. Admittedly, not all United Nations peace- keeping efforts have been regarded as successful, but they have consistently promoted progress in negotiations between the parties in conflict. In the process the United Nations has expanded the meaning of peace-keeping beyond mere impartial interposition to include the protection of humanitarian aid, refugees and displaced persons as well as assistance to countries holding elections. Even the set-backs and difficulties encountered in peace-keeping operations have yielded useful insights that could help secure the success of similar undertakings in the future. With the implementation of “An Agenda for Peace” and its Supplement, further progress may be expected, not only in peace-keeping but also in preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, post-conflict peace-building and the complementary role of regional organizations in maintaining peace and security. We are heartened that the Agenda for Peace has been complemented with “An Agenda for Development”, which would not only enhance the capability of United Nations to do its work in the economic and social spheres but which will also facilitate the forging of a global partnership for development. However, the United Nations is much more than a forum for maintaining security, resolving conflicts and keeping the peace. The Organization, its specialized agencies and related institutions have been engaged in an immense array of activities that touch every aspect of people’s lives all over the world. It is therefore most regrettable to note that the severest financial crisis in the history of the United Nations casts a dark shadow over the fiftieth anniversary. In particular, the failure of one major Member State to meet its obligations by withholding legally obligated contributions is not only contrary to Article 17 of the Charter but has also driven the Organization to the very brink of insolvency. This aggravating situation has forced the Secretary-General to try to resolve the crisis through postponing reimbursements to the troop-contributing countries. This places an unfair burden on those countries and penalizes especially the developing countries among 7 them. If the situation were to continue without urgent and effective measures being taken to resolve it, peace-keeping operations would grind to a halt and all our endeavours to maintain peace and security would be endangered. The fiftieth anniversary presents us with an opportunity to address this fundamental issue of the United Nations insolvency at the highest political level, including possible recourse to innovative global taxation schemes. The achievements of the United Nations over the past five decades make a compelling case for the further strengthening of multilateral cooperation, and we believe that the United Nations can be an even better instrument of multilateral cooperation if we act with greater purpose and determination in rectifying its inadequacies and shortcomings through a comprehensive process of restructuring, revitalization and democratization. My delegation is therefore gratified that steps have been taken to revitalize the role of the General Assembly, including the reorganization of its Committee structures and the streamlining of its agenda for greater efficiency and efficacy. Indonesia also believes that the membership of the Security Council, including its permanent members, should be increased so as to reflect the changed international situation since 1945 and to accommodate the interests and concerns of developing countries, which comprise the overwhelming majority of the Organization. It is a glaring anomaly that on the roster of permanent members of the Council Europe is overrepresented, Asia is underrepresented and Africa and Latin America are not represented at all. We are also of the view that additional permanent members should be chosen on the basis, not only of equitable geographical representation, but also of such objective criteria as the political, economic and demographic weight of a country, its capability and proven track record of contributing to the promotion of peace, security and development, both regionally and globally, and its commitment to assume the responsibilities inherent in permanent membership. It may also be timely and pertinent to review the manner in which the veto is exercised at present with a view to mitigating its arbitrary use and to ensuring a more democratic decision-making process. One central challenge not yet fully met by the United Nations in its fiftieth year is that of general disarmament, particularly in its nuclear dimension. The 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) adopted three decisions, namely, to extend the Treaty indefinitely, to strengthen its review process and to agree on certain principles and objectives for non-proliferation and disarmament. Yet the Conference failed to address the inequalities inherent in the Treaty. Issues long identified as crucial components of the non-proliferation regime were marginalized. The indefinite extension of the NPT removed the element of urgency from obligations under article VI of the Treaty, which may legitimize existing nuclear arsenals and perpetuate their further modernization. Hence, our priority agenda in the disarmament field should continue to be one of seeking further deep reductions in those arsenals with a view to their ultimate, total elimination, curbing the horizontal and vertical proliferation of nuclear weapons, banning the production of fissile materials for weapons purposes, ensuring the peaceful applications of nuclear technology on a predictable and long-term basis, initiating negotiations towards an international convention on security assurances to non-nuclear States, and concluding the ongoing negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty. It is in this context that we have deplored the underground testing by France and China, not only because of health and environmental considerations but precisely because it contravenes the spirit of the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the NPT and undermines the ongoing efforts to conclude a comprehensive test-ban treaty. While urging the nuclear Powers to desist from conducting further tests, we believe it is imperative that concerted efforts should now be directed at achieving a treaty banning nuclear testing in all environments and for all time, without any loopholes or exceptions, by 1996. Perhaps the greatest tragedy of recent times is that which has befallen the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The brutal aggression perpetrated again this independent Member State of the United Nations and the slaughter and “ethnic cleansing” of its people have shocked the whole world. Denied its legitimate right to defend itself as a result of an unjust arms embargo, Bosnia and Herzegovina faces the prospect of the forcible dismantling of its multicultural, multi-ethnic and multireligious society and the erosion of its internationally recognized sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. The major Powers, which early on could have put an end to this tragedy, have failed the cause of justice and of a principled solution, offering instead rationalizations for what clearly amounts to a policy of appeasement. Only now, after an excruciating wait, have the United Nations 8 and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) finally taken firm action. On the ground, the tide of battle seems to be turning, while at the same time a new peace process is unfolding which appears to have some viability. Indonesia welcomes the accords recently reached between the Foreign Ministers of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, comprised of a set of broad principles that are to govern a peaceful settlement of the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Developments have thus entered a crucial stage, and it is of paramount importance for the international community to ensure that neither an unjust nor an unworkable peace be forced on Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, President Soeharto has offered Indonesia’s good offices to facilitate a peace process based on direct negotiations among the leaders of the States directly involved in the conflict. These negotiations should be conducted on the basis of certain basic principles, such as peaceful coexistence and non-interference in internal affairs. Any settlement should take into account existing United Nations resolutions and existing proposals for settlement and should entail mutual recognition by the States that were components of the former Yugoslavia, respect for internationally recognized boundaries and protection of minorities. Furthermore, the process should proceed in stages, from direct negotiations between the leaders themselves to an appropriately structured international conference, to be held when agreement has been reached on the basic elements of a settlement. In the Middle East the pursuit of peace has continued to gather momentum. The historic Declaration of Principles signed two years ago was bolstered by the agreement reached last week between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel, which calls for an extension of Palestinian self-rule in the occupied territories, phased withdrawal of Israeli forces and free elections for a Palestinian Council, thereby paving the way for a final settlement of the Palestinian-Israeli dimension of the Arab- Israeli conflict. Indonesia welcomes the agreement as an important watershed in the Middle East peace process. But the path to a lasting peace still faces major hurdles and challenges, including those posed by Israeli settlements in the West Bank, the unresolved question of Palestinian refugees 50 years after they were forced to flee their homeland and the status of Al-Quds Al-Sharif. At the same time, progress must also be achieved on the other tracks of the Arab-Israeli negotiations, which is a sine qua non for a comprehensive settlement of the Middle East question. The ultimate guarantee for a durable and just peace is Israel’s withdrawal from all occupied territories, including the Syrian Golan Heights and southern Lebanon. The global economy today is reportedly at its strongest in many years. According to the World Economic and Social Survey of 1995, it has attained an average growth in output of 3 per cent per year. But the rising tide of production has not lifted all economies. Thus, notwithstanding the promise of global recovery, over 2 billion people remain poverty-stricken, often under circumstances of extreme deprivation. Up to 18 million die annually from hunger, malnutrition and poverty- related causes. The gap between the haves and the have- nots continues to widen, doubling in size over the past three decades between the richest 20 per cent and the poorest. Policy decisions affecting the developing countries are increasingly being made by international agencies or groups, such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank, the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the Group of Seven. It even seems that the United Nations itself is being marginalized, as decision-making on international economic and financial issues continues to shift to the Bretton Woods institutions, where the participation of the developing countries is less equitable. It is no secret that some countries would like to inaugurate a global system in which finance and macroeconomic management become the exclusive domain of the IMF, development strategies that of the World Bank and international trade matters that of the WTO. I submit, however, that given the expanding role of the developing countries in the world economy and the growing interdependence between States, the participation of developing countries should be enhanced rather than curtailed. The solution of global economic problems requires a global partnership for development, and that partnership cannot be forged without sustained dialogue and cooperation on key economic issues between the developed and the developing countries. This is why, after the Jakarta summit of the Non-Aligned Movement, where economic development was restored to the top of its agenda, the Movement sought to relaunch a constructive dialogue between the North and the South based on mutual interest, common benefit and equitably shared responsibility. That kind of dialogue has been welcomed in this Assembly, and it is our hope that other key players in the globalization process, such as non-governmental organizations, transnational corporations and international financial institutions, will in time also join that dialogue. 9 Just as important is the revitalization of the institutions which the United Nations Charter set in place 50 years ago to lay the social and economic foundations for peace. We must ensure, however, that in the process we will strengthen the role of the developing countries in decision- making and enhance the democratic character of the United Nations. It is in this context that I have opposed the idea of establishing an economic security council to take the place of the Economic and Social Council, because it is bound to frustrate our efforts to democratize the functioning of the United Nations. As to the attendant suggestion to wind up the work of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), I believe, to the contrary, that these two bodies are vital to the achievement of accelerated, sustainable and equitably spread development, especially for the developing countries. Since its establishment 30 years ago, UNCTAD has consistently endeavoured to redress the inequities and imbalances in the world economy and to give a greater voice and role to the developing countries in its management. UNIDO, too, has proven to be of concrete benefit to the developing countries, in particular in their efforts to accelerate their industrial development. Both UNCTAD and UNIDO, therefore, should be strengthened rather than be allowed to be whittled down or eliminated. We believe that the problems now plaguing many developing countries could have been forestalled if they had adequate access to international markets, to financial resources and to appropriate technologies. And while we expect that the results of the Uruguay Round will alleviate the crisis by liberalizing the international trading system, we also know that the lion’s share of the benefits will accrue to the developed countries. This imbalance is due to the significant loss of differential treatment in trade for the developing countries, the limited progress achieved in lifting restrictions on agricultural exports and the imposition of trade conditionalities based on labour codes, eco-labelling and so on. If the new trading regime is to have a positive impact on the developing countries, these problems and imbalances should be squarely addressed, and the rights and interests of the developing countries, particularly the least developed among them, should be upheld. Amid such trends as increasing globalization, the integration of global financial markets and speculation during periods of national adjustment to privatization, the developing countries have become increasingly vulnerable. Among the developing countries, those in Africa are particularly disadvantaged because their external-debt problems have virtually excluded them from investment flows — they must rely on official development assistance (ODA), which continues to decline. At the same time, negative financial flows continue to hamper their development efforts. In 1994 alone the continent’s indebtedness was double that of other developing countries. It is therefore incumbent upon the international community to give its priority attention to the critical situation in Africa. The World Summit for Social Development, convened earlier this year in Copenhagen, underscored the determination of the international community to raise global standards of living and to address the problems of poverty, unemployment and social integration. Its Declaration and Programme of Action offer a pragmatic and feasible course to alleviate mass human suffering and to elevate the human condition. Now we must translate rhetoric into action, and realize the true potential for global prosperity. An integral part of that process is the implementation of the Declaration and Platform for Action adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women, recently concluded in Beijing. For only through the empowerment and advancement of women by such means as access to economic resources, to education and to the decision-making processes in all fields and at all levels can the social and economic welfare of humankind progress. It is essential, therefore, that we create an environment conducive to women’s full participation in the development process, as both its agents and its beneficiaries, if we are to move forward in our efforts to achieve sustained economic growth, sustainable development and social justice. The observance of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is particularly significant to us in Indonesia, for it takes place while we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the proclamation of our independence. To us, this is not a mere coincidence in time but a convergence of ideals and values. Neither is it a coincidence that the Charter of the United Nations and the Constitution of Indonesia embrace the same principles and objectives, such as independence, social justice, equality and abiding peace. For the United Nations and Indonesia emerged from the crucible of the Second World War and the struggle for independence yearning and hoping for the universal peace that can only be derived from a sharing of the fruits of freedom and justice by all humankind. 10 Since then, the United Nations and all of us, the peoples who are its constituents, have gone through another crucible, that of the cold war and the massive global changes that attended its wake. And, again, we have emerged with a yearning and a hope that the peace envisaged in the United Nations Charter 50 years ago will be attained in our time. The difference is that this time we have 50 years of experience to illuminate our endeavours and to sharpen our perspective of the future. On this occasion, as we rededicate ourselves to the vision of the United Nations Charter, let us resolve to use our collective experience in our continuing efforts to revitalize and strengthen the Organization that is the vehicle of our hope. Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. Given your talent and experience, I am confident that you will guide this session to the successful completion of the noble mission entrusted to it by the Charter of the United Nations. I should also like to express my appreciation and thanks to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for his outstanding leadership in accomplishing the tasks of the last session. I should like to take this opportunity to extend my warm welcome and congratulations to the Republic of Palau on its admission to the United Nations during the past year. Further, I wish to express Armenia’s gratitude to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, for the vision with which he has guided the Organization, and for his tireless activity in redefining the role of the United Nations in this changing world. After its declaration of independence in 1991, Armenia began implementing radical economic and political reforms to create a healthy market economy and a truly democratic society. In addition to severe economic and social problems resulting from the extraordinary changes buffeting the country, the transition process in Armenia has been exacerbated by the collapse of traditional economic and trade arrangements, instability in the region, the transport and energy blockade imposed by neighbouring Azerbaijan, the devastation caused by the massive earthquake of 1988, the conflict between Nagorny Karabakh and Azerbaijan and the presence of 360,000 refugees. Despite such serious economic and social circumstances, economic reforms have been continued and even expanded over the last year. From the point of view of current economic trends, 1994 was exceptional. The programme of socio-economic development was aimed at halting economic decline, reducing inflation and creating conditions for the revitalization of the economy. Although the problems specifically related to the transition remain, the measures taken not only have halted the recession but also have provided a measure of economic growth. Indeed, in 1994 Armenia became the first former Soviet Republic to record economic growth. A tight credit policy has forced down the inflation rate from 30 per cent a month last year to 1 per cent in August. The currency, the Dram, is now one of the strongest in the region. Since mid-1994 a macroeconomic stabilization programme has been under way. We have maintained a policy of fiscal and monetary responsibility to encourage the development of the private sector. We are also undertaking a mass privatization programme to transfer nearly all State-owned enterprises to private ownership. We believe that the private sector will be the engine of growth in Armenia and an important source of employment opportunity. We welcome the participation of foreign investors in this process without restriction, and we have a completely open foreign trade policy. 20 Of course implementation of our economic policy has been hampered by the situation in the energy sector, which remains critical. Therefore, the only viable, effective short- term solution to Armenia’s energy crisis is the restarting of the Metsamor Nuclear Power plant, which is under way. Armenia, like other States in transition, is in the process of emerging from economic crisis and of laying the foundations for economic and social development. While States have the primary responsibility to achieve social and economic development, they cannot do so alone. They need the substantial support and encouragement of the international community. Multilateral and bilateral donors should coordinate their financing and planning procedures to improve the impact of their activity toward the achievement of the objectives of social development programmes of countries with economies in transition. Given its universal membership and the unique and comprehensive mandate reflected in its Charter, the United Nations has a vital role to play in the development process, particularly in ensuring the implementation of development commitments in an integrated fashion. Hence, its relationship with the specialized agencies, funds, regional organizations and commissions, the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization should be analysed with a view to enhancing effective action and coordination between them in the economic, social and related fields. The commitment to the transformation of the centrally planned economy to a market economy is seen by the Government of Armenia as an integral part of the transition to a democratic State. In turn, a free-market economy will flourish in a stable democracy which promotes and underpins economic development. The success of a democracy requires informed and civil discourse and respect for the rule of law and for the democratic process, including the expression of the public view through free and fair elections. Last July, Armenia held its first democratic parliamentary elections since its declared independence. Simultaneously, Armenians voted in a constitutional referendum on the first democratic institution in the history of Armenia. The Constitution was adopted and the liberal democratic forces gained an overwhelming majority in the new parliament, now renamed the National Assembly. International and local observers reported that the elections ran smoothly and were held in a free atmosphere. I should like to take this opportunity to express my Government’s deep appreciation for the monitoring activities of the United Nations observers in the parliamentary elections and the constitutional referendum. The convincing victory of the liberal democratic forces has guaranteed the continuation of the political and socio-economic policies pursued thus far by the Government, based on a clear programme and an achievable plan of development. The adoption of the Constitution is a decisive factor in the maintenance of the stability of Armenian statehood, as well as the legal guarantee for the development of a civic society and a market economy. Development and human rights are interrelated and mutually reinforcing. There can be no genuine long-term development without respect for the full spectrum of the rights of individuals. Armenia strongly supports the efforts of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mr. Ayala Lasso. Member States must continue working toward better coordination within the Human Rights Centre and consolidation of human rights functions within the United Nations system. The United Nations should give priority to monitoring and prevention. Armenia considers self-determination in its multitude of manifestations to be an inalienable human right. The conflict between the people of Nagorno Karabakh, who are striving for self-determination, and the Azerbaijani Government, which refuses to address the rights of the people of Nagorno Karabakh, continues to concern the Government of Armenia. The peaceful resolution of the conflict remains Armenia’s top foreign policy priority. Despite the maintenance of the cease-fire since May 1994, the conflict continues to threaten peace, stability and security in our region. The lack of any serious breakthrough in negotiations during this respite, the uncertainties surrounding the political process and the reluctance of the international community to seize the opportunity to act firmly and decisively make the 15- month-long cease-fire highly fragile. Indeed, the longer the cease-fire exists without any major developments, the more likely the resumption of military activity in the near future will become. Since the last session of the General Assembly, important developments have taken place in the political process. Visible progress was made at the Summit meeting of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) held in Budapest in December 1994, when an agreement was reached at the highest levels to combine the mediation efforts of the OSCE and Russia, 21 and create a co-chairmanship to guide the peace process. The Summit also expressed readiness to establish a multinational OSCE peace-keeping operation to consolidate the existing cease-fire, make the peace process irreversible and open the way for the Minsk Conference. Today, under Russian and Finn co-chairmanship, and with the participation of nine Minsk Group member States, the OSCE is actively pursuing the peace process through intensive negotiations. While these efforts have certainly yielded results, a demonstration of political will by the parties to the conflict and an added commitment by the international community are needed if a serious breakthrough is to be achieved. As part of the step-by-step approach to the resolution of the conflict, the signing of the political agreement is critical for the consolidation of the cease-fire and for the overall settlement of the conflict. This political agreement, which is currently, during the Minsk Group negotiations, being discussed by the parties to the conflict, stipulates the deployment of the OSCE peace-keeping forces, the return of the occupied territories, the lifting of all blockades and the return of refugees. The successful conclusion of this agreement depends mainly on a provision that provides local, regional and international security guarantees that will ensure the physical existence of the people of Nagorno Karabakh, and eliminate the possibility of the resumption of military activities. Such guarantees, along with standard security measures — deployment of OSCE peace-keepers, demilitarization of all evacuated territory, and so on — must also address Nagorno Karabakh’s legitimate need, as an indispensable security element, of a corridor linking the enclave with the outside world. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction poses a grave threat to both global and regional security and stability. At the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the States parties undertook an in-depth and earnest review of the implementation of the Treaty and reached a decision for the Treaty to continue in force indefinitely. My delegation would like to take this opportunity to reiterate its satisfaction with this historic outcome. Armenia attaches great importance to the early conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty — and no later than 1996. In recent years the United Nations has convened a series of global conferences. The important process of international gatherings has continued this year. The World Summit for Social Development brought together many strands that had previously been pursued separately. For the first time in history there was a political acknowledgment that the eradication of poverty must be the first priority of any society. Within each of the United Nations global conferences, the advancement of women has been a major concern, and we have witnessed a number of considerable gains on women’s issues. The Fourth Conference on Women, which has just concluded in Beijing, both reaffirms the commitments toward the advancement of women made in the previous conferences and builds upon their achievements. The Platform of Action agreed upon at the Beijing Conference will lead to the creation of new machinery that will help countries integrate women’s issues into national policy-making. Virtually all Member States of the United Nations favour an increase in the membership of the Security Council reflecting the radical changes in the world and the increase in the Organization’s overall membership. However, an increase in membership should not diminish the Council’s efficiency. Meanwhile, the Security Council must continue working to improve its openness, transparency and communication with non-members. The Council should also be able to respond to emerging threats and disputes before their escalation into armed conflict. There is a direct link between peace and security, on the one hand, and economic and social development, on the other. Therefore, radical reform of the Economic and Social Council is imperative. As a first step, strengthening of the Council’s policy-setting role and coordination capability in operational activities for development is required. Together with improved coordination of United Nations organizations and agencies devoted to economic and social progress, a strengthened Economic and Social Council could better assist the Security Council and advise it of potential emergencies arising out of economic and social conditions. The issue of financial resources is fundamental. If Member States wish to have an effective world Organization to meet global challenges, they must pay their assessments, as they are legally committed to do. 22 We are not indifferent to the financial situation of the United Nations, and I would like to assure the Assembly that my country will do its best to fulfil its obligations. However, the current assessment formulas no longer fully reflect global economic and political realities. The High- level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations was established by the Assembly in part in response to the necessity for revision of the assessment structure. The aim of a comprehensive financial reform must be to establish a transparent and reliable scale, reflective of Members’ real capacity to pay, automatically adaptable to changed national circumstances and giving consideration to the needs of countries with low per capita incomes. Let me conclude by wishing the General Assembly every success in the demanding work it faces during this session, and by pledging Armenia’s most active and efficient cooperation with the delegations of other States as you, Sir, preside over our deliberations. My country, Senegal, is very pleased to express to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral its warm congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. His election reflects how much the international community values the role his country — Portugal — has played in analysing and managing the major questions that mark the evolution of the world. It also values his personal qualities as a diplomat and a statesman, as well as his experience in the field of human relations, the fundamental basis of peace among nations. I should like also to pay tribute to Mr. Freitas do Amaral’s predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, who conducted the work for the year of the forty-ninth session with effectiveness and remarkable open-mindedness, thus earning the pride of all Africa. Finally, I should like here, once again, to emphasize my country’s support for the Secretary-General, Mr. 6 Boutros Boutros-Ghali. His initiatives, his repeated actions and his determination to accomplish his noble mission in the service of peace, security and development, despite a particularly unstable international situation, have earned the gratitude of the world. History will owe him a debt of thanks. Today, the United Nations has travelled through half a century. For 50 years the peoples of the Earth, following the Second World War, having wisely learned the lessons of the mistakes and set-backs of the history of human conflicts, have been engaged in an effort to create a new environment, an atmosphere of mutual understanding and of cooperation in solidarity, a framework within which mankind can finally realize that communal spirit, generosity and mutual respect are the best possible guarantees of peace, well-being, health and the environment, as well as the blossoming of society. For 50 years, pursuant to the principles set forth in the United Nations Charter by the founders of our shared Organization, we have, stage by stage, laid the foundations for an international system that can provide collective security for all countries and, at the same time, create the best possible conditions for life in greater freedom. If we consider the action that the Organization has undertaken since its creation — in particular, if we analyse the management of the many conflicts that arose here and there during the period of the cold war — we can see, without any shadow of doubt, that it has indeed proved to be an irreplaceable tool for the promotion and maintenance of peace. Indeed, beyond the simple maintenance of international peace and security, the Organization remarkably distinguished itself in the struggle for decolonization, but, above all, in the establishment of a progressive system of specialized agencies, all of which provide highly valued assistance in the social, economic, humanitarian and cultural fields. But, despite these recorded achievements, we have to admit that there is still a long road to travel, that a number of important challenges still have to be met, and new and bold initiatives taken, if we are to realize fully the ideals contained in the San Francisco Charter. Patient preparation is being made for a historic reform of the structures of the Organization itself and, specifically, the Security Council. In this connection, Senegal unreservedly supports an increase in the numbers of permanent and non-permanent members of the Council with a view to strengthening the conditions and machinery available for the maintenance of peace. It must indeed be accepted that the end of ideological confrontation has brought the world neither the peace nor the development that was so earnestly anticipated by the founding fathers of the Charter. From Afghanistan to Angola, from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Somalia, from Liberia to the republics that emerged from the former Soviet Union, many conflicts continue to this day to resist our attempts to solve them. True, for some conflicts, such as those in Angola or the Middle East, significant progress has recently been achieved. And I wish to take this opportunity to welcome the new important step that has just been taken in the search for a settlement to the Middle East conflict with the signing, on 28 September in Washington, of the Taba Agreement. In the case of other conflicts, such as that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a glimmer of hope is now showing over the horizon thanks to the concerted action of the Western Contact Group and the Contact Group of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, as well as the European Union, the United States of America, the Russian Federation and other Governments of good will. This is also an opportunity for me to congratulate the Organization of the Islamic Conference and its member States for all their efforts and initiatives. They have made a considerable contribution to the results we have solemnly welcomed today. In this regard, it is clear that the heroic struggle of the Bosnian people, underpinned by its leaders’ acute awareness of their responsibilities, has made a powerful contribution to the new situation which the international community wishes to see strengthened and eventually result in a definitive peace for the former Yugoslavia. The proliferation of conflicts resulting from the disappearance of blocs has had the positive effect of laying the foundation for a consensus on the machinery, criteria, conditions and means to be used to ensure, organize and safeguard peace throughout the world. This consensus implies that we must have greater recourse to preventive diplomacy as an innovative concept to ensure that our system of collective security functions properly. This consensus also implies that the mandates of peace- keeping operations should henceforth be better defined in the light of the circumstances and objectives sought. The 7 necessary means should therefore be collected and mobilized. The importance which my country, Senegal, attaches to this question is commensurate with its tireless determination to work towards an effective security system that works because it is fully adapted to current realities. It is above all in this spirit that Senegal is a regular participant in the work of the Special Committee to review the whole question of peace-keeping operations in all their aspects. Moreover, Senegal’s position is in accord with the clear awareness in Africa of changes occurring throughout the world and which led our continent in 1992, at the summit meeting of the Organization of African Unity in Dakar, to conceive and establish a mechanism for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts. This African initiative, which contributes to the maintenance of peace and security throughout the world, should therefore be supported by the international community in order to reduce the practical ramifications of the lack of funds which, as everyone knows, is so sorely afflicting Africa, and enable it to achieve its legitimate ambitions through fulfilment of the aims of this machinery. With such support, our continent, Africa, would be able to devote itself further to settling the conflicts in Rwanda, Burundi, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Somalia. Speaking of regional conflicts, in regard to the problem of Jammu and Kashmir — involving two neighbouring and fraternal countries, India and Pakistan, with which Senegal has friendly relations — my delegation would urge a definitive settlement that would allow these two great Asian nations to devote their efforts to establishing an atmosphere of peace conducive to integrated development and mutual benefit. The Organization of the Islamic Conference, in conjunction with these two countries, is giving careful thought to this matter. It is universally recognized today that there can be no development without peace and stability. It is thus in the lack of development, poverty, marginalization and exclusion that we must seek the underlying causes of insecurity. We must therefore devise together a new system of collective life that will give everyone new reasons for hope on the basis of the spirit of solidarity and desire for peace in which the system is founded. Such action should begin with a new awareness that, even if the expression “globalization of the economy” is now in vogue, the phenomenon goes far beyond the trend. Indeed, it involves, coevally, economics, finance and information. It is also and particularly relevant to the major problems of humanity’s future, be it the question of protecting the environment, fighting threats against our collective health, drug trafficking or fighting organized crime. It has become obvious today that the solutions to these problems cannot but be global. In the light of these new realities of today’s world, it is clear that only a new conception of collective solidarity will allow us to avoid or at least mitigate the many serious consequences of poverty and exclusion that are so damaging to everyone. We must therefore make a collective commitment to defining a new social covenant for the future of mankind. The struggle against poverty in the countries of the southern hemisphere therefore assumes particular importance in this context. Given the current globalization and liberalization in the economy of nations, the new World Trade Organization (WTO) — opened in Geneva a few months ago after having been christened at the historic Marrakesh meeting — should prove to be a new framework and cradle for a world open to fairer, more balanced and more human economic and trade relations between the countries of the North and South, in the spirit of the legitimate claims of the peoples of the third world. Here, I wish solemnly to reaffirm that the WTO carries with it the hopes of the world for a new era of profitable, balanced and sustainable trade for all. From this perspective, the World Trade Organization, to the establishment of which the African countries contributed, should help those countries to participate more actively in the new international economic system. Moreover, the globalization and liberalization of the economy should also encourage the developing countries to intensify South-South cooperation as an essential component of both the strategy for development and the means to ensure the integration of their economies in the new context and within the new aspirations of the international community for development in peace, particularly of the countries of the South. The same is true of the need to boost commodity prices and to ensure equitable access to markets — to all markets — to allow our countries to develop genuine and effective trade policies. My country, Senegal, wishes unreservedly to stake its claim to this dynamic process. 8 On the occasion of this fiftieth anniversary of the creation of the United Nations, from this rostrum I wish to make a solemn and heartfelt appeal on behalf of the development of Africa. This appeal reflects a major concern of African leaders and peoples. The United Nations, as we know, has devoted much fruitful attention to this matter, as witnessed by the convening in Geneva last July, within the framework of the session of the Economic and Social Council, of a high-level debate on African development. Today, it is a truism to stress the dangers of Africa’s marginalization. It is a danger, a real one, painful and serious. Although it is real, the danger is none the less unacceptable. It is therefore absolutely essential, for all those for whom solidarity and international cooperation continue to hold meaning, that it be averted. I welcome the fact that the Secretary-General of the Organization that shelters us today is one of those who believes that there is no historical inevitability which Africa cannot overcome. Has not Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali decisively proved this by deciding to launch a special initiative for Africa, with the clear aim of breathing fresh life into international cooperation? Through me, Senegal reiterates its total support for this initiative, which is particularly fortunate since it dovetails with all the priorities Africa has set for itself — namely, food security, water control, social and human development, democracy, mobilization of resources and, finally the struggle against poverty. It should also be recalled that the Head of the Senegalese State, His Excellency President Abdou Diouf, has been tirelessly devoting himself for a long time now to seeking global solutions to the problems of Africa, particularly the excruciating question of debt which is delaying the development of African countries. Thus, during his first term of office as Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, he was the initiation of the convening in 1986, for the first time in the annals of the United Nations, of a special session of the General Assembly devoted to Africa’s critical economic situation. Similarly, Senegal welcomed the conclusion in Paris in 1994 of the international Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa, and would like to stress here that this Convention must be put into effect very soon and that the allocation of the considerable resource that would be needed to uproot this scourge from the African continent should be accelerated. This is the task which for years now has been the special concern of the Interstate Committee for Drought Control in the Sahara. We cannot speak about development without addressing the question of respect for and protection of, fundamental human rights and freedoms, which have today become a universally recognized requirement. Everyone is aware of how wedded Senegal is to this requirement of our modern times that, in view of the changes which have affected the world since the end of the 1980s, all African countries, integrate this policy into their development policy as an unavoidable dimension of progress. To conclude, may I emphasize once again that the new international context and the multi-dimensional nature of the problems that must be solved require concerted action by all of us: integrated action, solidarity among all partners — Governments, agencies and bodies, public or private — that mould the life and the evolution of the human international community. Solidarity is the cement and also the guarantee of this common approach, which is inspired by what is needed for mankind to survive. Solidarity is first and foremost a profound conviction that we all belong to one and the same world, whether it be developed or underdeveloped. Solidarity also entails a duty to face up to our common problems and our common challenges, whether we come from the North or from the South. Solidarity is, finally, a collective will to build the future on the basis of a partnership from which none are excluded. Solidarity is also a common commitment voluntarily to promote the collective progress of all mankind. It is in the name of all the nations that are so greatly devoted to the mission of man on earth that we must nurture solidarity, cooperation, friendship and brotherhood. In this spirit and at this juncture in the history of our planet when hope has been rekindled by the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of an organization — the United Nations — without which the world would not be what it is today, we solemnly express our ardent hope that this 1995 session, the fiftieth in the history of the United Nations, will be the dawn of a new era in which we shall witness the realization of all our ideals of peace, justice and progress, to the greatest benefit of future generations, to which it is our duty to hand over a world of peace, a world of security and a world of development. Let me first convey to you, Sir, my delegation’s and my own congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly. Your appointment to preside over the Assembly at such an important session constitutes a recognition not only of your personal abilities but also of the important international role that Portugal plays on the international stage. As we commemorate half a century of the existence of the United Nations, we do so with renewed hopes for the purposes and principles of the Organization, and we wish to reaffirm our country’s commitment to it. The major processes taking place in the modern world have transcended national borders and taken strong root in the multilateral sphere. Like never before in the history of humankind, the solution of the problems of the peace and security of States and the people inhabiting them, as well as the protection of the individual, his welfare and his environment, depend more on collective decisions and action than on any one country. Our multilateral system may still have major defects and shortcomings, but there is no replacement that has the political legitimacy of the United Nations to take up the challenges facing us as we approach a new millennium. Hence, it is important, during this session of the Assembly, to engage in a broad debate on the functioning of our system, in order both to adapt its objectives to the new realities and to introduce far-reaching changes in the structures of the Organization, which were designed to meet the challenges of a post-war world that no longer exists. My country aspires to occupy a seat in the Security Council as a non-permanent member in 1996 and 1997. From this rostrum I wish to express our gratitude for the unanimous endorsement we have received from the Latin American and Caribbean Group, as well as for the support to be provided by other countries of the United Nations in the election, which is to be conducted at this session of the General Assembly. Chile is in a position to assume this responsibility and contribute to the search for the consensuses required to strengthen the Organization and make its decisions really effective. We shall do so on the basis of our 17 principles of international policy, seeking always to reflect the views and interests of the region we wish to represent. We believe that the primary objective of a security policy is to reduce the insecurity of the international community as a whole, of its Member States and of individuals, families and the communities in which they live. Helping to reduce these insecurities is the main task of the United Nations. We are experiencing the combined effects of the ending of the cold war and of the process of increasing globalization. Both have positive consequences in the economic and political spheres, but at the same time they face us with new situations and uncertainties. The fear of the nuclear destruction that might have resulted from the world-wide ideological confrontation between the major Powers has disappeared, and the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), to which Chile is now a party, has been indefinitely extended. Nevertheless, the nuclear Powers and those aspiring to that status still do not acknowledge that the very existence of nuclear weapons capable of destroying mankind is a source of insecurity for us all. To believe that nuclear weapons confer greater security on the State that possesses them is an illusion. What they produce is profound unease in other nations and in the population of the nuclear- weapon State itself in the face of the possibility that the weapons, in an escalation of folly, might end up being used. The renewal of nuclear tests by certain Powers — precisely at a time when, in the wake of the recent Conference on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, there should have been a moratorium on such tests so that a definitive test-ban treaty could be prepared — shows insensitivity in this regard. Nevertheless, China and France, countries for which we profess respect and friendship, have opted to continue such tests. We condemn their attitude, and we see this as a clear setback for the cause of disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, which we all claim to share. For Chile, France’s decision to renew its nuclear tests on Mururoa Atoll, in the Pacific Ocean, is of particular concern. As a Pacific country and a member of the Asia- Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC), has categorically condemned those tests, and President Frei has made our opinion known to President Chirac. We are concerned lest the South Pacific region, in which Chile has vital interests, should become a zone in which it is regarded as legitimate to engage in activities that are unthinkable in other parts of the world. We wish to state clearly our willingness to work together with other States of the region to prevent the proliferation, emplacement, transit or testing of nuclear weapons and other radioactive materials in that region and throughout the world. On the other hand, we appreciate the positive attitude of those nuclear Powers that have declared and maintained unilateral moratoriums. Chile, along with other countries, believes that the General Assembly should take a stand on this issue in order to promote an immediate moratorium on all nuclear tests, as proposed by the Heads of State of the Rio Group and the States parties to the Treaties of Tlatelolco and Rarotonga at their recent meeting. The end of the cold war has given rise to a genuine ideological decolonization that has opened the way for greater freedom and democracy in various regions of the world. Nevertheless, the hope that this change would lead to a more peaceful world has been thwarted. The new world disorder has encouraged the development of ethnic, religious, cultural or simply group differences. The former Yugoslavia, Rwanda and Somalia remind us that hatred that still festers in various parts of our world. People rightly look to the United Nations to bring its political and moral weight to bear in helping prevent such atrocities. Consent to barbarism in any part of the world weakens the moral fibre of all human beings. That is one of the great lessons of the cold war; after the overthrow of fascism, the world also had an opportunity to expand democracy and freedom. Nevertheless, the systematic abuse of human rights which tactical allies were allowed to engage in, and which also characterized the Soviet Union and its areas of influence, reduced the ethical quality of the world inherited after the ending of the cold war. What alarms us today was just yesterday promoted or consented to for “reasons of State”. Thus, the promotion of human rights, freedom and democracy cannot be seen as unwarranted interference in other people’s affairs. There cannot be political, cultural, ethnic or religious reasons for trampling on human dignity. This is the core of the emerging international 18 humanitarian law which Chile regards as a cornerstone of the world order for the twenty-first century. In addition, the need to promote the security of the individual has recently acquired particular prominence. The main factors that today affect such security are unemployment, hunger, poverty, marginalization, crime and discrimination on grounds of class, sex, religion, culture or ethnic origin. People are demanding to be included in a process of development which affords opportunity, and asking that shared progress should ensure increased equality for all. Societies today are aware that social polarization is becoming their main source of uncertainty. The world economy also recognizes this fact. As President Eduardo Frei has said: “We know today that there can be no stable investment in unstable societies, and that economic prosperity cannot prosper amidst human insecurity. On the contrary, it is becoming increasingly apparent that one of the main sources of growth and development for the future is, in all countries, the incorporation of today’s marginalized people into the worldwide production system that is coming into being.” Heads of State and Government from all parts of the world ratified these views at the World Summit for Social Development, when they stated: “We acknowledge that the people of the world have shown in different ways an urgent need to address profound social problems, especially poverty, unemployment and social exclusion, that affect every country. It is our task to attack both their underlying and structural causes and their distressing consequences in order to reduce uncertainty and insecurity in the life of people.” (A/CONF.166/9, annex I to resolution 1, para. 2) The same problems stemming from the processes of globalization and internationalization have led to the emergence of a new set of problems relating to security. These include the corrosive influence of drug production and consumption, and the corrupting effect of the movements of vast amounts of money that this traffic involves; the degradation of the environment, from its global impact on the ozone layer to its local effect on the health of children and the elderly; the large international migrations resulting from insecurity in the countries of origin; the expansion of international terrorism; and the increase in transmissible diseases such as AIDS. One immediate conclusion emerges: there is no substitute for the multilateral system to tackle this interrelated set of problems. The areas for purely national action are shrinking, while the need for international agreements and understandings is growing on a daily basis. Another important conclusion is that to deal with this multifaceted constellation of problems, we need to make use of the United Nations system as a whole. If we want to resolve the problems of security, as they are experienced by people and as we have described them here, not only the Security Council, but also the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the specialized programmes and agencies have a vital role to play. We must give them greater responsibilities in relation to these issues. In this context, I wish to outline a number of general principles by which our activity in the Security Council will be guided. We shall: First, focus on preventive diplomacy and on peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with Chapter VI in order to reduce to the minimum the use of force, in accordance with Chapter VII of the Charter. Secondly, promote confidence-building measures and regional solutions based on the capacity for action of countries in the region; the regional option can be effective, as the case of Latin America is demonstrating, and should precede and complement recourse to the Security Council. Thirdly, always maintain a special concern for the victims of the conflicts dealt with by the Council, encouraging the fullest use of humanitarian law. Fourthly, protect, in cases where sanctions have to be applied, the interests and needs of the most disadvantaged sectors of society; we do not believe in unilateral sanctions or in sanctions that ultimately hit only the weakest. Fifthly, promote greater transparency in the procedures and decisions of the Council, so that the other States Members of the United Nations, civil society and public opinion at large can exercise democratic oversight over its actions; the more widely the complexities of the issues it deals with are known and understood, the greater the support for its work will be. 19 Sixthly, monitor the growing cost of peace-keeping operations with a view to rationalizing use of the available resources and making them more efficient. We believe that one of the essential tasks for the United Nations in striving to attain the goal of increasing global stability is to promote the progressive establishment in various parts of the world of regional zones of peace and cooperation that is, geographical areas, defined by the participants themselves, in which are applied agreed rules for coexistence and the strengthening of peace and security. The United Nations has already declared the Indian Ocean and the South Atlantic to be zones of peace. The same objective has been pursued by the Treaties of Tlatelolco and Rarotonga in relation to nuclear weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean and in the South Pacific. We need to draw the main lessons from the benefits and limitations of the experience they afford. It is important to stress that the ending of the cold war leaves the concept of a zone of peace devoid of any ideological implication and makes it possible to acknowledge its practical usefulness. The Government of Chile considers that many regions, including ours, are in a position to follow this example. We intend to request the Secretary-General to engage in consultations with the Governments of United Nations Member States regarding the interest in and possibilities of promoting zones of peace in various regions of the world and to report thereon to the General Assembly next year. If we wish to make an effective response to the challenges we face, we need to improve the representativeness and efficiency of our Organization. This Assembly will also have to discuss important aspects relating to the reform of the system in these two directions. Chile shares the view of many other countries regarding the need to restructure the Security Council to make it more representative. That entails bringing in as new permanent members countries which over the past 50 years have acquired much greater weight than they had when the Second World War ended. The new realities of the international system have not affected only the developed world. Other regions have increased their influence in a world which — although “globalized” — is still extremely diverse. While maintaining its capacity for rapid decision-making, which implies a small number of members, the Security Council needs to be expanded to take all these factors into account. That will mean making the present categories of membership more flexible, while always maintaining geographical balance. Of course, we agree with all the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean that any expansion of the Council should provide for an increase in the representation of our region, which in recent decades has acquired a greater international presence and has shown itself always ready to undertake responsibilities in the strengthening of international security. Nevertheless, the reform needed in the United Nations goes far beyond the Security Council. Important reforms also remain to be carried out in the economic and social sphere, through which it will be possible to promote greater efficiency in the discharge of the major tasks of eliminating poverty, protecting the most disadvantaged social groups, creating employment, protecting the environment and strengthening free trade. In these and other areas, we also expect important initiatives from this Assembly. Finally, the financial situation of the United Nations has been a cause of concern to us all. This situation is largely due to the many additional tasks the Organization has had to take on in recent times. But we share the idea that, rather than endlessly increasing contributions, it is important to take up the urgent task of rationalizing expenditure and setting adequate priorities for our activities. We greatly value the initiatives the Secretary- General has been taking in this direction, and we assure him of our full support in his efforts to adapt our Organization to the new realities. Over the past 10 years, Latin America has undergone far-reaching structural changes in the direction of democracy, respect for human rights and economic reform. Now we are also making an effort to attack the major problems of poverty and inequality that blight us, and to eliminate once and for all the scourges of drug trafficking and corruption. Chile, as an integral part of the community of Latin America and the Caribbean, is a country of social peace and continuing development. Our economy has experienced sustained growth rates and our country is determined to consolidate the democratic process and attain justice and social equity. 20 As a country that is open to the world, we have expressed our readiness to assume in full the international responsibilities incumbent on us in the common task of bringing about peace, security and development. We are convinced that this Organization, which we helped to found fifty years ago, will continue to be the main multilateral vehicle for our proposals, our contributions and our dreams. On behalf of the delegation of the Kingdom of Morocco, I am pleased to extend to the President my sincere congratulations on his election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that his diplomatic experience, excellent knowledge of international issues, and the many responsibilities that were assigned to him will ensure the success of our work and help us achieve the best results. I also wish to assure the President that the delegation of the Kingdom of Morocco will spare no effort in cooperating with him and in providing every support to facilitate his task. I also salute in him the representative of a country which shares strong ties of friendship, cooperation and good-neighbourliness with Morocco. I should like to avail myself of this opportunity to pay tribute to the outgoing President, Mr. Amara Essy, for his excellent conduct of the work of our previous session. I should like also to express my deep appreciation to Mr. Boutros-Boutros Ghali, the Secretary General, for his untiring efforts towards the promotion of peace and security and for his constant endeavours in facing up to the tremendous responsibilities shouldered by the United Nations as a result of the developments that took place in the world over the past few years. Those efforts of the Secretary-General acquire greater importance at a time when our Organization faces an unprecedented financial crisis. This session stands out by the fact that it coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization. We may recall the day, 50 years ago, which gave rise to hope that we were embarking on an age of emancipation, liberty, independence and the maintenance of peace and security. That day heralded, for all humanity, the dawn of a new era that was received with joy as it was to be the beginning of a path of dialogue and cooperation that affected an alternative to violence and confrontation. The important changes in international relations witnessed by the world over the past few years did usher in a new world situation. However, the fact that, in the new situation, the economic interests of the major Powers continued to have the upper hand frustrated the hopes of the developing countries that a new era of genuine solidarity between the rich and the poor was about to emerge and serve the legitimate interests of all the members of the international Community. As we see it, the economic and social situation in most countries of the South gives no cause for hope or optimism. The gap between developed and developing countries is still widening, and the economic, commercial, and social problems of the developing countries are only worsening. This has thrown the doors wide open to such phenomena as extremism, fanaticism and terrorism, scourges that we must confront and curb. In order for us to do so, the world economy has to be restructured in the context of genuine cooperation between all nations and an earnest dialogue in which the rich countries would shoulder their full responsibilities towards the promotion of an international partnership whose aim should be to find viable solutions to this problem that would work in favour of men’s moral and material interests, wherever they may be: North or South. While we welcome the initiatives taken towards the restructuring of the world economy since the ratification of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the subsequent inception of the World Trade Organization, and the steps taken by numerous developing nations, including Morocco, to restructure their economies with a view to integrating those economies into the world economy, we believe that such initiatives, by themselves, will not be sufficient to lead to solutions to the economic, trade and financial problems that beset the third world. We hope that the World Trade Organization will adequately and fully discharge its responsibilities and that it will be provided with the necessary means that would make it an effective tool and enable it to translate into reality the commitments made. We hope that the current negotiations amongst the various international organizations concerned will lead to the desired coordination between monetary, financial and trade policies and thereby lead to the laying of genuine foundations for free international trade, wherein there would be no deterioration in the terms of trade or any decline in the prices of primary commodities. We also hope that those discussions will mark the beginning of a reconsideration of the concept of foreign debt from which the developing countries suffer. The African continent is in the grip of a disastrous economic and social situation. Morocco views with concern the deterioration of this situation as it is part of the African continent, and is a member of the African family that has a long history of shared struggle for liberation and emancipation which binds it to all the peoples of Africa. Given the gravity of a situation, that portends untold tragedies, Morocco calls on the international community to make a concerted effort to find a solution to the worsening problems of Africa. In our opinion, the strategic perspective and the approach adopted so far in tackling those problems will not lead to any improvement or substantial qualitative change so long as the international community does not commit itself to a long-term strategy that embodies concrete commitments in favour of Africa. Such a strategy, as we see it, should be part of a comprehensive perspective aimed at improving the level of social and economic development in Africa with a view to integrating the continent into the world economy and enabling it to benefit from its dividends. In this respect, Morocco calls for a speeding up of the implementation of the Convention to combat desertification in order to meet the needs of our continent at both the national and international levels. In spite of the efforts made by the United Nations and repeated calls from this rostrum to give pride of place to dialogue, and to solve conflicts by peaceful means and preventive diplomacy, some regions in the world continue to be the scene of armed conflicts and civil wars which crush our hopes of establishing lasting peace and security. By the same token, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, especially nuclear weapons, still threatens our world and should be addressed most earnestly in order to avoid irreparable disasters. 2 In this respect Morocco has effectively contributed to the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and hopes that all countries will accede to this important Treaty and thereby ensure its universality. Morocco also hopes that the Middle East will be exempt from all weapons of mass destruction, as has been the case for other regions of the world. This is one of the noble objectives that the Organization should work for so that all may channel the funds tied up in this field to development and to combating all forms of underdevelopment. It is indeed cause for optimism that progress has been made in the negotiations on the test-ban treaty, especially the pledge made by the Conference on Disarmament to conclude a treaty concerning this issue before the end of 1996. The era of colonialism is now a thing of the past. As a matter of fact, this has been one of the great achievements of the past 50 years. Unfortunately however, the two Moroccan cities of Sebta and Melilia and the neighbouring islands are still under Spanish occupation. These enclaves, which are part and parcel of Moroccan territory, and which overlook the Mediterranean sea, are thus the last remaining colonies in Africa. Such a situation is indeed a strange anomaly which neither reason nor logic can accept and which clashes head on with the spirit and the letter of the United Nations Charter. In this context, may I recall the major stages which Morocco has gone through in order to complete its territorial integrity. Since its independence in 1956, Morocco started negotiations with Spain in order to complete its independence, hence the withdrawal, in 1958, from the region of Tarfaya, which is part of the Moroccan Sahara, then the withdrawal from the region of Sidi Ifni in 1969. In 1975, after a period of alternating dialogue and tension, Morocco recovered its other southern provinces. The only parts that are still under Spanish colonization are Sebta and Melilia and the neighbouring islands. Morocco, which opted for dialogue as a fundamental principle in its policy vis-à-vis its neighbours, propounded that principle in international forums as the best means of avoiding armed conflict and sought to settle all problems by peaceful means, remains convinced that its historical ties with Spain, coupled with the two countries’ common economic interests, will help overcome the difficulties that stand in the way of a solution to this dispute. Morocco considers Spain to be one of its most important economic and political partners in view of the size of Spain’s investments in Morocco, the volume of trade between the two countries, the joint development projects, such as the intercontinental link between Spain and Morocco that would link the African and European continents, as well as the burgeoning cooperation in the areas of culture and tourism. We are convinced that if all this is taken into account, it would help resolve the disputes. We believe that the best framework for the desired settlement is to be found in the proposal made to Spain by His Majesty King Hassan II, to set up a reflection and consultation committee with the aim of finding a solution to the problem of Sebta and Melilia that would allow Morocco to exercise its sovereignty over the two cities and the neighbouring islands while preserving Spain’s economic interests. The Arab Maghreb Union has made considerable progress on the road to Maghreb unity. Morocco, which, like its neighbours, believes that the Union is a strategic choice, is determined to overcome the few remaining obstacles in the way of progress towards unity. In this era of economic blocs, the creation of the Arab Maghreb Union is an unavoidable necessity if regional integration is to be achieved, if challenges are to be met and if we are to ensure the progress and prosperity of our peoples, who are united by the bonds of common language, religion and history. I am sure that idea of establishing the Arab Maghreb Union, which reflects an ancient historical reality, will come to fruition as have other regional blocs that have achieved a high level of integration and unity even without enjoying the bonds that unite the Arab Maghreb Union. In recent years, the Middle East has witnessed many developments that have created an opportunity to achieve peace and to end the Arab-Israeli conflict on the basis of the principles of land for peace, respect for the national and political rights of the Palestinian people and the establishment of their own State, with Al Quds as its capital. One of the decisive events in the region was the conclusion of the Israeli-Palestinian Agreement signed at Washington D.C., which confirmed that the peace process in the region is irreversible, notwithstanding the obstacles it is encountering. The Jordanian-Israeli agreement also 3 confirmed that the logic of tolerance and coexistence in the framework of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace based on international legality is now an absolute necessity for all. In this connection we welcome with satisfaction the Taba Agreement that was signed in Washington D.C. between the Palestinians and the Israelis, an important milestone on the road towards the establishment of peace and security in the region. It is our fervent hope that the two parties will be able to overcome existing obstacles and show a firm determination to settle pending problems, bearing in mind the legitimate interests of all and respecting their commitments and the behests of international legality. Optimistic as we are about the progress on the Israeli- Jordanian and the Israeli-Palestinian tracks, we hope that positive development will materialize on the Israeli-Syrian and Israeli-Lebanese tracks which would lead to results acceptable to all parties on the basis of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and General Assembly, particularly Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). Last year, in an attempt to promote the peace process in the region, Morocco acted as host to the very first Economic Summit for the Middle East and North Africa, which stressed the need to establish economic programmes as part of an effective partnership that would create better living conditions for the peoples of those regions. The Summit also emphasized the need to assist economic development in Palestine to enable the Palestinian people to promote their economic and developmental institutions and to participate on an equal footing in the development of the region. We hope that the Amman Summit will be another milestone in the mobilization of the potential of public and private sectors to consolidate the peace process by promoting economic cooperation to help in the region’s development and by meeting the aspirations of the peoples of that region after progress, prosperity and just and lasting peace. The United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran have not yet arrived at a final settlement of their dispute over the future of the islands of Abu Musa and Greater and Lesser Tumbs. In light of our historical relations with those two sisterly countries, and given the relations of neighbourliness and friendship between the peoples of the United Arab Emirates and Iran, we look forward the day when there will be a final solution to this dispute so that the region may revert to the spirit of coexistence that once characterized it. The tragedy of the Bosnian people is almost without precedent in the history of mankind. It is even more alarming in light of the international community’s failure to stand up against murders, displacement of populations, ethnic and religious cleansing, mass rape and the destruction of the country’s culture heritage and civilization. It is regrettable that the world should be witnessing such procrastination under the new world order, which purports to be founded on respect for human rights. It is also somewhat amazing that that new world order, which had mustered all its resources to extinguish every hot spot outside the Western world, should now fail to protect a people in the very heart of Europe who are daily being subjected to Serb aggression. Morocco, which had been under the impression that the problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina would be settled in 1992, was surprised at the deterioration of the situation there and by the escalation of violence and massacres. In this connection, Morocco has consistently discharged its human and Islamic duty to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, mitigate the agony of the Bosnian people and provide humanitarian assistance to them. I am convinced that the meeting of the Islamic and International Contact Groups in Paris on 7 September 1995 and the meeting that took place between the two groups yesterday, 28 September 1995, are likely to open the way to coordination and consultation to achieve the expected objectives and strengthen the foundations for peace in the region on the basis of justice and international law. We welcome with hope the results of the 8 September 1995 meeting between the Bosnian, Serb and Croat ministers at Geneva. We hope that the agreement in principle concluded by the parties to the conflict last Tuesday, 26 September 1995, in New York will be a decisive step towards alleviating the sufferings of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it will help them achieve their hopes for peace, tranquillity, sovereignty, safeguard the territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina and thus ensure peace, reconciliation and stability in the region. 4 With regard to the question of the so-called Western Sahara, Morocco took the initiative of proposing the organization of a referendum and accepted the settlement plan presented by the Secretary-General. Morocco also agreed on the criteria concerning voter identification and made serious efforts in full cooperation with the Secretary- General, the Security Council and the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO). Morocco has also offered financial assistance and the necessary support to overcome difficulties and implement the settlement plan in good faith. In view of the obstacles we are now encountering in connection with the identification process with regard to all persons of Saharan origin, we appeal to the Security Council to take the necessary measures and to mobilize all the appropriate means that would safeguard the settlement plan against collapse and remove the spectre of tension from the region. I take this opportunity to renew our commitment and stress our firm determination to continue our full cooperation with the Secretary-General in order to complete all the procedures and take all necessary measures to organize the referendum early next year, as suggested by the Secretary-General in his latest report to the Security Council on the issue. We hope that the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization will be an opportunity to study all the ideas and suggestions put forth in order to improve and redress the structures of our Organization so that, given all the changes in the world, it can meet the actual needs of the international community. I refer in particular to ideas regarding the enlargement of the Security Council and improvement of its working methods, which must be carefully considered and given ample time so that results can be achieved and a consensus can be reached. We are confident that the perseverance and earnest determination we have shown in taking up challenges will be the best incentive for us to face up to the new challenge and enable our Organization to fulfil its duties adequately at the dawning of the twenty-first century, which we hope will be the beginning of a new era of peace, stability and life in dignity for humanity. Allow me first to say how pleased we are to see Ambassador Freitas do Amaral of Portugal presiding over this session of the General Assembly, a session that coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. His election to the presidency is a tribute that expresses recognition of his personal qualities. We welcome this unanimous election of a high-ranking representative of the friendly country, Portugal, whose skills and experience we value. I should like to assure him of the support and cooperation of Algeria. I should also like to express Algeria’s gratitude to his predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Côte d’Ivoire for his outstanding efforts and achievements throughout his mandate.We are very grateful to him for the manner in which he has honoured Africa and wish him every success in his work in the service of his country. 15 I should also like to say how grateful we are to the Secretary-General of the Organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and how much we appreciate his sagacity and resolve at a time when the role of the Organization vis-à-vis the call for peace, security and development, is becoming more urgent. I wish to renew to him assurances of our full confidence and continuing support. This session of the General Assembly is truly exceptional in that it takes place at a time when the international community is at a historic turning-point. Never before has there been such a need for stability and security, nor has there been a more pressing quest for a fairer, more equitable and balanced world. Herein lies the symbiotic significance of this fiftieth session of the General Assembly. It comes as a timely reminder of the importance of world peace and security and of the need for our nations to organize their common future on new foundations. Thus, when we take stock of the Organization’s activities over the past 50 years in all areas of international life, the transformations and shortcomings such stocktaking reveals make it incumbent upon us to make a special effort to identify the stakes and the challenges we must face up to as the century draws towards its end. How our world shapes up will depend on our doing so. Therefore, the ambition of the world Organization should be to give true content to collective security and to promote the creation of a new paradigm for development. The United Nations must adapt to a changing and singularly complex world reality by going back to the source, to the principles upon which it was founded if it is to forge a new future for all. At a time when the international order has lost its regulatory capability and the international community lacks the frames of reference that could help guide its action, it is up to the United Nations to regulate inter-State relations, to promote a stable and equitable order and to foster a model that would be acceptable to all. At a time when it is becoming clear that trade globalization and market integration respond only partially to the growing need for justice, equity, stability and security, the United Nations must take its position at the forefront of the drive towards harmonization which is a must for conflict prevention, crisis management, rapprochement between peoples and the promotion of cooperation between States. However, if the Organization is to perform its role, it must be given the means that would enable it to better organize international society and equip it to face up to the upsurge of intolerance, the escalation of terrorism, the exacerbation of tensions and conflicts, the aggravation of the economic situation of the most deprived countries, the social malaise in the industrialized countries and an overall decline. In short, the United Nations must be equipped with the means that would enable it to defend freedom, law, justice and equity. This means that nothing could be done in the absence of the political will of States that bear the responsibility of dispelling doubts and remedying the disaffection that is noticeable today vis-à-vis the United Nations by giving true meaning to the Organization’s invaluable and multifarious contributions towards the promotion of an international society that is more just, better organized and better structured. Whether it is a matter of democratizing international relations, completing the process of decolonization, upholding human rights, strengthening the disarmament enterprise or ensuring the continuity of international efforts to promote development, the contributions of States and their awareness of their responsibilities remain indispensable if the United Nations is to be able to perform the ever-developing role it has to play in this context. Proceeding from this, it is only by improving the collective capabilities of the international community to face up to the urgent and most intolerable injustices that a true meaning could be given to preventive efforts of diplomacy, to peace-keeping operations and to the elaboration of a genuine structure of international cooperation. It is only with a new vision, a new thinking and new modalities of action that the international community would be able to surmount obstacles and ensure future success. As we approach the end of the century, it is important to rethink our practices with a view to elaborating long-term complementarities that would rise up to future challenges, spare the world new crises and establish the regulatory rules our world needs. It is this vision that inspires Algeria in its thinking of the need for international action that should be made more palpable in order to ensure greater consultation 16 among nations, and greater understanding among peoples as well as greater courage in striving to achieve peace and development. It is this vision that guides Algeria’s national renewal endeavour which aims at establishing on firm foundations the rule of law, promoting economic reform and strengthening the democratic process. The democratic presidential elections, the first round of which will take place on 16 November 1995, will translate into actual political reality, the will and desire to promote the sense of responsibility of all Algerians and to hasten the laying of firm foundations for an open, free and democratic society. This democratic process, an ever-renewed experiment, is bound to contribute to the achievement of stability, the concretization of democratic freedoms and development in our region, and, as it truly expresses the aspirations of our peoples, it will be the appropriate retort to all attempts at subversion, of which terrorism is the most abhorrent manifestation. To us, combating terrorism is a battle in defence of democracy. As any complacency vis-à-vis terrorism would be an absolute negation of democracy, it follows that we cannot remain indifferent to this scourge which poses a really serious threat to international peace and security. Thus, the struggle against terrorism does not allow of any laxity but must be pursued most vigorously in the context of decisive international action whose aim should be the total eradication of this scourge from all our societies. If we are to rise up to this challenge, there is a need to accord a high priority to economic and social development. This is a need that is more urgent than ever before. Its relevance has been recognized today by all the Governments of one region. Awareness of the threat of the scourge of terrorism and the interest shown in the Algerian proposal regarding the need for a response in solidarity within the framework of the Euro-Mediterranean region demonstrate fully the strength of this conviction. In the context of the newly emerging political, economic and social realities, Algeria has accorded special priority in the context of its immediate environment, to the problems of security and development and to the sort of contributions required in resolving such problems. Proceeding from this, Algeria is convinced that the unitary Maghreb project is necessary, not only for the security and stability of the Maghreb region, but also for the prosperity of the Euro-Mediterranean region, as well as the Arab and African regions. It is precisely within the context of the need to establish a unified, strong and stable Maghreb region that Algeria makes its contribution towards the achievement of a just and lasting settlement to the question of Western Sahara. Part and parcel of this policy is Algeria’s support of the efforts of the United Nations Secretary-General aimed at a transparent and credible implementation of the settlement plan through a genuine referendum, which would ensure the free exercise by the people of the Western Sahara of its right to self-determination and independence. Any violation of the settlement plan, especially through the moving foreign populations to the Western Sahara, would have very serious consequences for the peace process. All obstacles that impede the implementation of the settlement plan should be dealt with through direct dialogue between the two parties to the conflict, the Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front, with the aim of creating the proper conditions for a peaceful settlement to the conflict that would realize the aspirations of the peoples of the region. A just and lasting settlement to the question of the Western Sahara would contribute to the strengthening of the Maghreb unitary edifice, thus making it a fundamental element of success for medium- and long-term cooperative strategies in both the Sahelian-Saharan and Mediterranean regions. In this connection, to lift the sanctions which continue to severely afflict the brotherly Libyan people and to search for urgent solutions to the relevant differences, is an urgent need that acquires particular significance and should make part of any forward-looking strategy. Here, as elsewhere, political will underscores the need for an intelligent understanding of the situation and for a positive dialectic that would contribute to the building of a community of stability and progress. It is in this spirit that we continue to deploy efforts that aim at consolidating cooperation in the sahelian-Saharan region, an enterprise which we shall endeavour to pursue to success at the forthcoming Euro-Mediterranean conference in Barcelona. In the Middle East, where the building of peace requires from all parties sincerity, determination and respect for the commitments undertaken, Algeria continues to make its contribution towards the establishment of a lasting peace based on a just and overall settlement consistent with the rights of all the 17 region’s peoples. That is why, while supporting the peace process, Algeria has continuously underscored the need for withdrawal by Israel from all Arab territories occupied since 1967, including Al-Quds Al-Sharif and respect for the national inspirations of the Palestinian people. In this context, Algeria welcomes the conclusion of the agreement on the extension of Palestinian national autonomy in the west bank of the Jordan as a new positive step and calls for its translation into concrete reality. The search for a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East calls for full awareness of the fact that the challenges which face the peoples of the region require more wide-ranging and more efficacious solutions. From this standpoint, since Iraq is fulfilling its commitments which arise from the Security Council resolutions, the sanctions which severely afflict the people of this country should be lifted. By the same token, Kuwait’s internationally recognized borders must be fully respected. Finally, the restoration of the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates over the islands of Abou-Moussa, greater Tumb, and lesser Tumb must be reaffirmed. By meeting these conditions, new prospects for stability and security in the region can emerge. The alarming situation in Africa, where instability and uncertainty are symptomatic of a protracted crisis and where the fundamental elements of a new solution are being sought against a backdrop of disorder, the hotbeds of tension that persist in Angola, Liberia, Burundi, Rwanda and Somalia must now be quenched. However, any return to stability will only take place through economic recovery and escape from the economy of indebtedness that has severely damaged social cohesion, to a new type of economic organization that would foster growth and guarantee the modalities of international integration. As of necessity, this calls for dealing, as a matter of urgency, with the social costs of structural adjustment and implementing the new United Nations programme for Africa in order to avoid the tragedies and sufferings that beset the peoples of Africa and to put an end to the marginalization of the African continent. This is the price- tag on stability and peace in Africa and security in the world. We are equally concerned at the latest developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina where an entire people, whose very survival is threatened, face hatred, exclusion and the insanity of ethnic cleansing. It is no longer possible to tolerate this savage onslaught on the conscience of humanity. It is the international community’s duty and responsibility to put an end to this situation which is politically unacceptable and morally intolerable. From this rostrum, I would like to reiterate Algeria’s solidarity with and support for Bosnia and Herzegovina in exercising its right to defend its unity and territorial integrity and to protect the dignity and values of its citizens. In this spirit, Algeria has supported the current peace initiatives aimed at a just and lasting solution that would ensure respect for the constitutional principles that the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina wish freely to choose. In addition to these concerns, Algeria has commitments relating to peace throughout the world, as entered into in the framework of United Nations peace- keeping operations in Angola, Cambodia and Haiti, and participation in the election monitoring process that led to the birth of the new South Africa. All this reflects Algeria’s posture and its commitment to the maintenance of international peace and security. This is reflected in the comprehensive and coherent policy Algeria has always pursued with regard to disarmament issues, a policy that has led to its accession to the major disarmament instruments. Its recent accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), its effective contribution to the promotion of consensus solutions in the negotiations on the Treaty’s extension, and ratification, several weeks ago of the Chemical Weapons Convention, are significant moves that reflect Algeria’s desire to play an active role in achieving general and complete disarmament. The need for a viable international order based on solidarity has never been as urgent as it is now at a time when the world is in the throes of a phase of systematic transition. If it acknowledges how far we are interdependent, the international community will be able to usher in an orderly world society of solidarity that respects the diversity it enjoys. That is the reason why we must reduce the widening gap between North and South that, in the long term, are anathema to both international peace and security, and put our minds to the establishment of new balances based on renewed international relations. Such relations, if they are based on consultation and openness to the solidarity interests of the international community, will promote credible solutions to development problems. They must 18 validate the efforts of developing countries to regulate domestic adjustment processes, restore social balances and ensure all the conditions for meaningful integration into the new international order. In the face of rapid changes that threaten social fabric across the board, it is essential to promote a stable, predictable international economic environment that would be conducive to development efforts. In this context, more equitable financial, monetary, trading and technological relations must provide the basis for re-establishing trade as an effective instrument for mutual development, for reconciling peoples and strengthening the international community. In the face of these challenges, the United Nations, with its experience and credibility in terms of global issues, can provide inspiration, encouragement and help to elaborate and follow up future strategies. It is therefore our duty and responsibility to ensure that the United Nations Organization reasserts its authority, makes its structures more democratic and rationalizes its working methods. Such an endeavour should be founded on the reaffirmation of Member States’ commitments to the kind of renewal that is based on and inspired by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. This means that any restructuring of the United Nations system must meet the requirements of true democracy in international relations and should focus on the revitalization of its bodies, improving coordination between them, rehabilitating the General Assembly and ensuring transparency in reforming the Security Council. Whether it is a matter of establishing order among the essential elements of action or global decision-making, the prerequisite of democracy is now at the very heart of the problems of peace and development. In this context, “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development” are of the utmost importance. Thus, if we look clearly at the international situation and what is really at stake, this adaptation process will lead to new hope for humanity and ensure a lasting foothold in history for international peace and security. I have to confess to my usual excitement and pleasure at addressing the General Assembly, exceptionally crowded and patient even at this late hour. Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. Mr. Freito do Amaral represents a country with a long history of global achievements. With his personal qualities and experience, he is a very natural choice to guide the work of this Assembly at such a critical moment. Let me also pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, for his dedicated and distinguished stewardship during the last session of the General Assembly. I want also to record the gratitude of my Government to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the measure and quality of the leadership that he continues to provide in the direction and work of the Organization. 28 Barely three weeks ago Hurricane Luis wrought devastation on several island countries in the Caribbean, causing major setbacks to economic and sustainable development, as well as the loss of lives. As we ourselves recently experienced two similar disasters, our thoughts and sympathy are with the people of the Caribbean nations devastated by Hurricane Luis, and we pray for their speedy recovery. The President of the General Assembly, in his opening remarks, reminded us of the scope of the membership and the universal character of this Organization. Samoa is proud to note that a sister nation of the Pacific, the Republic of Palau, is the newest Member of the United Nations, and I am delighted to extend to Palau the warmest of welcomes. Two weeks ago the Republic of Palau was acclaimed to membership — becoming the sixteenth member — of the South Pacific Forum. That too was a moment of great pride for all of us. We come together at a special moment for this Organization and in the history of international cooperation. Undeniably, this is a session of exceptional importance. We need to take stock of where we, the United Nations, are and to set new goals and priorities for the future. Samoa believes that any stocktaking must be rooted in the Charter, which proclaims the purposes and principles of the Organization. Regrettably, the Charter pledges that we have made to succeeding generations remain largely unfulfilled. It is right, and it is natural, therefore that at this fiftieth session, we, the peoples of the United Nations, should seek to renew our commitment to those pledges. But first, it must be remembered that they are pledges that carry the attendant duty — a most sacred duty — to make them realities. It is a duty imposed upon us all and accepted upon membership in our Organization. Far too often, this is forgotten, or seemingly ignored. This session will also be the natural occasion on which to reaffirm our support for, and our faith in, the United Nations. I speak positively and unhesitatingly about reaffirmation because, quite frankly, what else is there to take the place of the United Nations? What we have is certainly not perfect. And given its almost universal make-up, the range of issues before it and the increasing demands being made of the United Nations, it would be surprising if this were the case. Indeed, in recent years, all of us in this Assembly have been engaged in various activities aimed at making the United Nations more relevant, more efficient and more cost-effective and at preparing the Organization for the twenty-first century. We welcome in particular resolution 49/252, which was recently adopted, on strengthening of the United Nations system, and we look forward to taking part in the discussions in the Open-ended High-level Working Group established. If and when we have devised changes and improvements in the United Nations system, I dare say that in years to come it will be necessary to persist in monitoring and putting into place further needed reforms to ensure the sustaining vigour of the Organization. That being the case, there is clearly room for criticism and fault-finding, from among ourselves as well as from those who look on. We do not however think the shortcomings of the United Nations warrant uninformed cynicism and unfair blame, nor the charge of irrelevance that is sometimes levelled at it. But clearly, the standing and the very role of the United Nations is at risk if the Members continue to deny the Organization the funds and resources it needs. The Secretary-General has spoken of this matter time and again, and once more in his report on the work of the Organization (A/50/1). The Organization is in a most critical financial state, but it is also clear that the situation can be substantially improved with the early payment of arrears and by the full and timely payment of assessed contributions. We can only urge the most immediate action on the part of those who know they must act. Samoa is a small and least-developed country. We are deeply committed to the United Nations, and we will continue to meet our financial and other responsibilities, notwithstanding the budgetary problems we face. We share the view that the strongest measures must be taken to achieve sound financial viability for this Organization. It would be essential for this purpose that there be a fair, more equitable and realistic scale of assessments, one which would take full account of the principle of capacity to pay. This must also take into account the predicament of some countries, including my own, which are assessed at the floor rate of the scale, at levels far beyond their capacity to pay. We believe there is a just case for abolishing or reducing the current floor rate. This is a matter of importance to many small States and we would hope that the High-level Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations would continue to give it due consideration. 29 There is a second aspect, which touches on the emphasis now being given to United Nations peace-keeping activities. While Samoa recognizes the necessary and traditional role of the United Nations in promoting global peace and security, it seems to us that ultimately no amount of force and no measure of peace-keeping can sustain peace and security without attention to the root causes. Our own view is that human misery brought about by poverty and the denial of human and democratic rights are often the real and fundamental problems. Unless these are removed or minimized, there can never be the substratum that we need for lasting world peace and security. Put simply, Samoa believes firmly that social and economic development must remain a major preoccupation of the United Nations, as pledged in the Charter. Development priorities spelt out in recent global conferences for the sustained economic and social advancement of the developing countries should be effectively implemented. They should not be ignored while the Organization’s attention and its focus, in terms of human and financial resources, is diverted elsewhere, largely on peace-keeping activities. For Samoa and other small island States disadvantaged by their size and geographical location, the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development on Small Island Developing States must remain a centrepiece of our attention. We welcome steps taken by the various organs of the United Nations system to implement the Plan of Action. We appreciate, in particular, what is being done by the Department for Policy Co-ordination and Sustainable Development and the Unit set up to monitor the implementation of the Programme of Action. These steps will complement efforts undertaken by our regional countries in the South Pacific region to further advance the commitments made in Rio, Barbados and elsewhere. Samoa’s commitment to the pursuit of global peace and security is unwavering. We will continue to do what we can. Conflicts which continue to rage in many regions of the world today cannot be ignored. They affect us all, for they impact directly or indirectly on the ability of the United Nations and the international community to respond to the development needs of others. We welcome the latest initiatives with a view to bringing a peaceful end to the conflict in Bosnia. A settlement acceptable to all parties must be reached. Another milestone in the Middle East peace process was reached in Washington yesterday. With the rest of the world, we celebrate and commend the enduring efforts and commitments made by the Israeli and Palestinian leaders to lasting peace and security for all in that region. Our environment is of vital importance, and of singular concern to my Government. Our actions in the region and at the international level are dictated by a deep commitment to preserving it. Together with other countries in our region, we have initiated and concluded a series of treaty regimes, including those designed to protect the natural resources and environment of the South Pacific region and to establish the South Pacific nuclear-free zone to keep our region free of environmental pollution by radioactive wastes and other radioactive matter. We will continue to supplement these efforts as the need arises. Indeed, leaders at the recent South Pacific Forum meeting in Papua New Guinea adopted the Treaty on the Control and Movement of Hazardous and Toxic Wastes in the South Pacific. Samoa did not hesitate to sign it. Consistently over the years Samoa, together with our regional partners, has called for a permanent end to nuclear testing, the dumping of chemical and toxic wastes and the transportation of these materials in our waters. From this account you will therefore understand our deep shock and distress when it was announced in June that France proposed to resume the testing of nuclear weapons in the Pacific. We sought, at the highest level, as many others did, to persuade the Government of France not to do so. We took action to register our concern and to protest and we sought to intervene in the proceedings brought by New Zealand against France in the International Court of Justice. Together with other Forum countries we moved to make direct representation to the Government of France — all to no avail. The explosion of a nuclear device at Mururoa atoll early this month brings to close to 200 the number of underground nuclear tests France has carried out in the Pacific since 1975. Of the whole United Nations membership, Samoa is the closest to the test site. The resumption of nuclear testing by France has been made in the face of strong and persistent protest from countries of the region, and equally strong and overwhelming condemnation from all parts of the world. 30 The current tests are being conducted in the absence of any environmental impact assessments that we know of or have been advised of, and in the opinion of my Government in disregard of France’s existing regional treaty obligations. Like other members of the South Pacific Forum, Samoa is outraged at the resumption of French nuclear testing in the Pacific — and, as I say, in the vicinity of my country. In the strongest possible terms we condemn it. We do so because of the extreme danger it poses to our environment and health, now and in the long term; and because the tests are completely contrary to the undertaking at the recent Non-Proliferation Treaty review Conference that nuclear States exercise utmost restraint in nuclear testing pending the completion of negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty that would ban nuclear tests for all time. We do welcome France’s commitment to a comprehensive test-ban treaty, but that should not be used as an excuse for France to continue its nuclear testing in our region. For the sake of our environment and all who live there, we call on France to stop. We call also, and once more, on the three nuclear Powers which have not yet signed and ratified the Protocols to the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty to do so. It is also out of deep concern for our environment that Samoa has taken every step possible to be engaged in the negotiations and in the implementation of the international conventions relating to climate change, biodiversity, marine pollution and the conservation of straddling and highly migratory fish stocks. Global warming and the threat of sea-level rise are matters of the gravest concern to my country and our region. Recently, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported that the warming of the global atmosphere is unlikely to be entirely due to natural causes. In other words, human activity is a definite cause that cannot be discounted. While this is not entirely unexpected, the latest indication from the IPCC bears out the inadequacy of current Convention commitments for Annex I parties, and underlines the essential correctness, and the urgency, of the Berlin Mandate issued from the first Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. For its part, Samoa will continue to work together with countries of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) towards the early acceptance of clear emission-reduction targets of the type advanced in the draft AOSIS Protocol. In respect of fish stocks, let me take the opportunity to pay tribute to all the countries that worked so hard to produce the truly remarkable triumph in the form of the draft Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. In particular, we express our gratitude to Ambassador Satya Nandan of Fiji for his exceptional skill and chairmanship. This has been a landmark year on many counts; with the fiftieth anniversary commemoration we will celebrate next month the crowning event. The Fourth World Conference on Women, in Beijing, is one such landmark. Samoa warmly applauds the unanimous adoption of the Platform for Action, and the remarkable degree of international consultation and cooperation that was employed to produce it. What is needed now is the highest degree of commitment and action, in close consultation with women at all levels. There would be little point in having yet another fine document without any prospect of implementation, and without the effort and the will to make concrete changes and improvements. And let it be remembered that such changes and improvements are not for women alone, but for the full development of mankind. Without doubt, the extension of the Non- Proliferation Treaty was a major achievement for the world community this year. We congratulate Ambassador Dhanapala of Sri Lanka on his remarkable role and leadership in ensuring the successful outcome of the Review Conference. The decisions we took then are essential to international peace and security, and the attainment of the ultimate goals of the complete elimination of nuclear weapons and a treaty on general and complete disarmament under strict and effective international control. The successful conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty by 1996 is a specific goal for the attainment of which all Member States of this body should strive with the utmost effort. We pray that at the end of the presidency of Ambassador Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, the world community will be able to celebrate the accomplishment of that objective. First of all, I would like to extend my sincere congratulations and best wishes for success to Mr. Freitas do Amaral upon his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. We are convinced that, with his profound knowledge of current global problems and his open attitude to the realities of international life, he will make a very important contribution towards the achievement of the objectives of this session. At the same time, I should like to address my sincere thanks to Mr. Amara Essy for his productive work during his presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I should also like to convey to Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, the Secretary-General of our appreciation for his efforts to improve the functioning of the United Nations and to assure him of the full support of the Republic of Moldova. In this anniversary year, Moldova celebrates the passage of four years since the proclamation of its independence and three years since its admission to the United Nations. Over these years of complex structural changes, we have preserved our aspiration of becoming a democratic State with a market economy, despite the difficulties of transition. Our country has already taken the first steps in this direction by embarking irreversibly upon the path of democracy. It is worth mentioning that the process of democratic transformation in Moldova has been supported and is being supported by the international community and, primarily, by the United Nations and its specialized agencies. Therefore, I wish to express our gratitude to the United Nations and its Member States for their substantial support in the promotion of the ongoing reforms in our country. In this context, I should like to describe the main developments which have taken place in our society this year, as well as our most important present concerns. 15 In its foreign policy, the Republic of Moldova, a neutral State not involved in political-military alliances, is developing mutually beneficial relations of friendship and cooperation with all States. It also intends to extend its bilateral links with neighbouring States, as well as with its traditional partners. In our domestic policy we have had two main priorities: to develop and consolidate the legal and institutional framework of a State of law and the smooth functioning of institutions appropriate to a modern democratic society on the one hand, and, on the other, to ensure economic restructuring and the transition to a market economy. So far, our country has succeeded in setting up a number of basic institutions for the rule of law. A modern constitution that guarantees political pluralism, private ownership and respect for fundamental human rights, including rights for persons belonging to ethnic minorities, has recently been adopted. Likewise, it assures the exercise of political liberty, a fact that is proved by the existence of numerous political parties and by the possibility of the free expression of political opinions. The Parliament has drafted and adopted a number of laws of major importance. The progress achieved by our country in the process of transition has been facilitated, to a certain extent, by bilateral cooperation with other States and in the framework of various international bodies. Among the positive effects of this cooperation have been a quickening in the pace of internal reforms and the process of integration into European political and economic structures. In this respect, a major event in the external relationships of the Republic of Moldova has been its admission to the European Council. This is both a recognition of the progress achieved by our country on the way towards democratization and an encouragement to further build up the rule of law and a democratic society. As for economic restructuring and the transition to a market economy, I can state that a number of difficulties are in the process of being overcome. This year new measures have taken aim at halting the decline in industrial output, which constitutes an important prerequisite for the relaunching of economic growth. Through a new monetary and fiscal policy, we have managed to reduce inflation and stabilize the national currency. Moreover, it is worth restating our willingness to continue our fruitful cooperation in this field with the international financial institutions, primarily the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. At present we are engaged in a crucial stage of the reform, particularly that dealing with wide-scale privatization. My government is mostly concerned to speed up privatization in the hope that this will spur economic reform and encourage not only internal investment, but also foreign capital and credits. In this context, I should emphasize that the difficulties encountered in carrying out economic reforms are linked, to a great extent, to the shortage of financial, energy and raw materials resources. The assistance we have received so far from the international financial institutions and from some developed countries has had a visible positive impact. Nevertheless, substantial and sustained external financial support is still needed for the creation of a modern restructured economy. That is why we are counting, in particular, on the support of the European Union for securing the success of our transition. Our efforts aiming at building a market economy and integrating our country into the European political and economic structures would be strongly helped by its supportive signals and actions. The signing of the agreement of partnership and cooperation with the European Union towards the end of last year and the recent signing of the Interim Commercial Agreement have been major steps in this direction. The difficult process of transition is being adversely affected by the anti-constitutional actions undertaken by a separatist regime which exerts temporary control over eastern districts of the Republic of Moldova. The Assembly may remember the armed conflict which was unleashed in 1992 by the separatist movement, with external support, in the east of Moldova. Although this conflict ended, its consequences still persist. We cannot but note the gross violations of the fundamental human rights of the Moldovan population in this area. Mention should also be made of the group of political detainees, known as the “Ilascu group”, which was illegally convicted and jailed by the anti-constitutional authorities of the Transdniester three years ago, and is still in prison. Nor can we omit mention of the obstinate refusal of the separatist leaders to allow the Moldovan parents and children to use the Latin alphabet in the study of their mother tongue. That is why the representatives of the competent international organizations in the field of human rights have noted a series of abuses and violations of the rights of the Moldovan population living in the eastern districts of the Republic. 16 Although the situation of the Transdniester is no longer in the forefront of international public opinion, it should be noted that no acceptable solution has been identified so far. Despite the reasonable compromises proposed by the constitutional authorities, separatist tendencies still persist. I should like to stress that the political leaders of my country have repeatedly demonstrated their willingness to solve this conflict exclusively by peaceful means by negotiation, in conformity with international law and in cooperation with international organizations, primarily with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), as well as with Russia and Ukraine in their capacity of mediators. In a spirit of compromise, my Government also firmly believes in the principle that any proposal or initiative to settle the conflict must provide for the maintenance of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Moldova and for its sovereignty over the whole country. It was this spirit that led this year to the solution of the conflict situation in the southern region of Moldova, which is populated by over 100,000 Gagauz who obtained, under the Constitution, the status of administrative territorial autonomy. As for the latest developments in the negotiations with Tiraspol, I should mention that a certain amount of progress has already been made, particularly in the matter of the re- establishment of economic links between Transdniester and the rest of the country. At the same time, we believe that a political settlement of the conflict in this area could be achieved through the orderly and unconditional withdrawal of military troops of the Russian Federation from the territory of our country, in conformity with the Moldovan-Russian agreement and the resolutions of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). In this regard, we are still concerned that, although the Moldovan-Russian agreement was signed last year by the Heads of Government of the Republic of Moldova and the Russian Federation, in the presence of Presidents Mircea Snegur and Boris Yeltsin, it has not yet been brought into force by the Russian side. I take this opportunity to voice our sincere hope that the competent authorities of the Russian Federation will speed up the procedure for the ratification of this document, in accordance with their obligations. I must emphasize that any possible failure to implement this important agreement might incur the risk of destabilizing the situation in the eastern districts of Moldova, as well as the real danger that a part of the armaments of the Fourteenth Army will be seized by the separatist forces of the Transdniester. We hope that the competent authorities of the Russian Federation will as soon as possible set up effective machinery for the withdrawal of Russian troops and armaments from Moldova, in accordance with the bilateral agreement I have mentioned and the decisions adopted by the OSCE Budapest Summit. The jubilee year of the United Nations is not only an anniversary but also an occasion for a lucid assessment of the achievements and failures of the first 50 years of the Organization’s existence. In this respect, I want to emphasize that the United Nations has made an important contribution in the search for and identification of solutions to the numerous urgent problems at the global, regional and national levels. Even if it has not managed to prevent or eliminate regional or local conflicts, the Organization has played an essential role in preventing the outbreak of a world conflagration. The evolution of international relations over the past years has provided favourable conditions for redefining the role of the United Nations and for adapting it better to the new realities of international life in the context of the next millennium. If this is to be achieved, there will have to be a new vision, as well as a redefinition of concrete machinery for achieving the fundamental objectives of the Organization, as inscribed in the Charter. Along the same lines, I should say that recent years have been marked by the appearance of new concepts, which could serve as a basis for the diversification of machinery for action in various fields of United Nations activity. With regard to the maintenance of international peace and security, there have been unprecedented qualitative and quantitative changes. As is well known, the peace-keeping operations currently being undertaken on four continents, and their mandates, continue to diversify — electoral and humanitarian activities, support for institutional reconstruction, monitoring of the observance of human rights, and so on. At the same time, new methods of dealing with crises have been proposed — for example, stand-by arrangements and rapid-reaction forces. In this context, we expect that there will be a considerable increase in the operational capacity of the United Nations in the field of the maintenance of peace, provided that Member States support the adoption of these new proposals. 17 We support unreservedly the importance the Secretary- General, in his report “An Agenda for Peace”, attaches to conflict-prevention machinery. All these initiatives confirm the preoccupation of the United Nations with regard to the adoption of a coherent approach to problems of peace and security. At the same time, noticeable attention is being paid to the study of development topics. The particular interest of Member States in the Agenda for Development confirms the topicality of these problems and the need to revitalize the world Organization in this area. In this context, I should like to make the point that, in view of the interdependence between peace and security, on the one hand, and social and economic development, on the other, it would be worthwhile for the United Nations to create an integrated system for implementation of the strategies and polices agreed upon by States. All United Nations activities, including peace-keeping and social and economic development programmes, should be complementary. At the same time, the decisions of high- level international conferences should find concrete expression in the actions of States and of United Nations agencies. In our opinion, in the attainment of these aims it is necessary to avoid excessive politization of certain specific aspects of each field and, at the same time, find the areas that are of interest to all Member States. The United Nations system must, through its expertise and global vision, ensure a climate of cooperation and mutual confidence, without which there will be no solutions to the problems of peace and development. The Republic of Moldova, which is deeply committed to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, is prepared to make its contribution and to support the Organization’s efforts to adapt better to the fast and profound changes in the modern world. We are fully aware of the major role of the United Nations in consolidating the positive trends of recent years in the international arena and of the need to increase the effectiveness of its activities. We therefore welcome the proposals aimed at enhancing that effectiveness. Naturally, we ourselves are well aware that the Organization cannot attain these objectives unless the Member States put the necessary resources at its disposal. That is why we pay special attention to this question and try to do our utmost to fulfil our obligations. We consider it necessary that the responsible United Nations structures adopt adequate measures to avoid waste, to ensure better use of the resources entrusted to it. In this context, I want to refer to the problem of contributions. I am obliged to point out that for four years our country has carried the burden of a quota inequitably calculated and set at too high a level in relation to its real capacity to pay. The artificiality of this calculation is also proved by the paradox that certain countries at a similar level of development and with populations and territories twice or three times larger than ours make contributions smaller than or equal to that of the Republic of Moldova. I imagine that some other recently independent States are experiencing the same situation. This, together with the costs of transition, could explain our current arrears. We believe that this matter needs to be taken into account at meetings of working groups of the General Assembly when they examine the possibility of introducing penalties against the countries that are in arrears. In our view, the process of diversifying the relations and the collaboration between States has enhanced the development of regional and subregional cooperation. As a matter of fact, the Charter itself puts particular emphasis on the regional organizations. Documents laying the bases for collaboration between the United Nations and regional organizations in various fields have been drawn up and adopted in recent years. Several General Assembly resolutions relating to cooperation between the United Nations, on the one hand, and the OSCE, the League of Arab States and the Organization of the Islamic Conference, on the other, are relevant in this regard. At present such cooperation is becoming increasingly diversified, covering new areas. Some regional organizations have acquired new competencies, including in the field of peace and security, and have thereby become partners of the United Nations in the settlement of some local conflicts. We hope that in the near future recently created regional organizations and groupings will be able to set up a cooperation framework with the United Nations, similar to the one already existing with other regional organizations. The Republic of Moldova thinks this trend should be encouraged. At the same time, we consider that any decision of the United Nations to transfer various activities within its sphere of competence to other international organizations, especially in the maintenance of international peace and security, implies major consequences for the security, integrity and independence of States in the respective regions. That is why the United Nations should continue 18 to exercise its competence under Articles 34 and 35 of the Charter, according to which the Security Council and the General Assembly are the main organs for dealing with and settling conflicts having regional implications. In conclusion, I should like to express the hope that the proceedings of the fiftieth anniversary session of the General Assembly of the United Nations will be carried out in an atmosphere of solidarity, of a realistic and constructive approach to the complex issues confronting the world at the end of this century. The delegation of the Republic of Moldova is prepared to contribute, alongside other Member States, to the fulfilment of the lofty goals of the United Nations. The meeting rose at 12.25 p.m. 19 Please permit me to offer you, Mr. President, our congratulations on your election to your high office and to assure you of our support and cooperation. To the Secretary-General we wish to express our highest regards and admiration for his leadership; and to the President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, our deep appreciation for his contribution. This is also a most fitting occasion for me personally to congratulate our brother and neighbour in the Pacific the Republic of Palau on becoming a full Member of the United Nations. My delegation eagerly looks forward to working closely with that country. Today, as we celebrate the passing of 50 years since the creation of the United Nations, we must also reflect on the events associated with the purpose for which this body was created. The havoc wreaked upon humanity by the Second World War prompted the founding fathers to devise an instrument to ensure a stable world and a better future. My purpose today is, first, to recognize those areas in which this body has undertaken some major initiatives in various sectors that are of great and direct significance to us in the Marshall Islands. I also will state briefly some of our concerns with respect to our membership in the United Nations, and then I intend to raise those issues whose implications have critical consequences for our survival in our country. As members will note, some of these have been raised a number of times in this forum during the past sessions of this body. This year, the completion of the United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks is of particular importance to my country, and my Government intends to sign and ratify the agreement, which was finalized this summer. We are indebted to the very able leadership of the Chairman, Ambassador Nandan, from Fiji. The Marshall Islands has given its full support to the Ambassador in his candidature to the post of Secretary General of the International Seabed Authority. I wish to acknowledge the support we have received from the Intergovernmental Panel of Experts of the Climate Change Convention. The scientific evidence we received from them in order adequately to address the Convention confirmed our belief in the existence of such phenomena as sea-level rise in many of our low-lying islands and in our region. We are particularly concerned by the strong possibility that the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) Protocol, now known as the Berlin Mandate, might be derailed because of intransigent short-term economic interests. Such a possibility, arising solely from the desire to facilitate the selling of more oil, if real, imperils our very survival. We will not accept such a condition and we urge that interference and delaying tactics that hamper the work of AOSIS and other concerned countries should cease. The increasing level of destruction caused by hurricanes and storms is a clear signal that the matter is urgent. We have deep sympathy with our friends in the Caribbean countries and in the United States who were recently struck by this devastation. The follow-up of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States that was held in Barbados last year will be looked at during this General Assembly session. The comprehensive and ambitious programme involved has received the wholehearted endorsement and support of the Marshall Islands Government. In this regard, may I extend our warm thanks to the Chairman of AOSIS, Her Excellency Ambassador Annette des Iles of Trinidad and Tobago, for all her efforts. My Government also looks forward to receiving the recommendations of the Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing last month. We will work closely with the United Nations to ensure that the recommendations articulated in the Conference are appropriately addressed. Mr. President, we endorse without hesitation the concern expressed in your statement in September of this year, in which you stated: “Efforts must be made to ensure that all States that are not yet Members should seek to be admitted in the near future” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 1st meeting, p. 7) In the light of this view, the reasons underlying the inability of many of these nations to become Members of the United Nations should be examined. My delegation feels that the unfair burden that is borne by many of the less developed countries with respect to the current system of assessing the scale of contributions to the regular budget and for peace-keeping operations deters others from seeking their rightful place in this community of nations. The Marshall Islands participated actively in the High- level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations, and we concur fully with the recommendation that the current floor rate should either be abolished, reduced substantially, or be designed according to a formula by which a country is assessed on the basis of its capacity to pay. A decision to that effect by the General Assembly at this session will undoubtedly help expedite the realization of the goal that you, Mr. President, envisioned. The current inequities with respect to the existing floor rate have also been noted in a number of reports, including that of the Committee on Contributions. My delegation strongly urges the United Nations to take action on the recommendations made by that Committee as soon as possible. The need to undertake certain structural reforms within the United Nations in order to make it more efficient and responsive to the changing needs of present- day society is critical. One such area which should be closely looked at is the Security Council, where the concept of permanent membership does not, in our view, constitute fair democratic representation. We are, however, aware of the differences in capabilities which exist among nations. We are aware, too, of the need for this issue to be carefully weighed and believe that possible solutions, including Italy’s proposal for a more formal set of subgroups or constituencies, should be seriously studied. This would be particularly helpful within our own regional group. We are hopeful that the High-level Working Group on the Security Council will act with wise expediency to devise viable and acceptable solutions to this important issue. We are also carefully studying the various reports and proposals developed by different groups on the work of other agencies of the United Nations. One aspect which we consider to be of great importance is the need to determine whether the existence of some of the agencies realistically justifies the resources provided for their support. We must arrive at a frank assessment of whether the tasks entrusted to an agency are actually carried out in a meaningful way, and what that work produces in terms of results. As long as this issue remains inadequately addressed, the climate of resentment and suspicion will persist and may give rise to adverse effects on the level of contributions needed to support the work of the United Nations. We must make urgent progress to complete this task of reform. The Convention on Biological Diversity and its fundamental tenet regarding the conservation and sustainable use of our resources is under serious threat from human activities. Evidence derived from data gathered in our country suggests in no uncertain terms 2 that nuclear contaminants resulting directly from nuclear- weapons tests conducted in our country have entered our basic food chain, upon which our very livelihood depends causing, among other things, extensive health risks. We must also pause and reflect on the plight of those groups of victims who, while the rest of the world was enjoying the benefits and freedom of the post-war period, were themselves caught between the crossfire of super- Power rivalries. One such unfortunate group was the people of the Marshall Islands. We are steadily unravelling the large amount of information now available to us on the nature and consequences of nuclear testing activities carried out in the Marshall Islands. We are deeply disturbed and alarmed at what we are uncovering. For in addition to the unfortunate nuclear tests, we unearthed something just as horrifying as the nuclear tests themselves, if not more so. It grieves me immeasurably to report today that in one of the Trusteeship documents we discovered it was confirmed that in a meeting held in New York on 10 May 1954, the Secretary- General of the United Nations agreed at the urging of the then United States Ambassador, Mr. Lodge, to withhold from circulation to Member States a petition from the Marshall Islands. The Marshallese petition, which pleaded with the United Nations to put an immediate halt to the tests was to be withheld by the Secretary-General pending the completion of the test series. In this petition, the people of the Marshall Islands, through their leaders, had expressed their genuine fears and concerns to the only world institution they believed could help them. In return, however, the high executives in this institution not only failed to consider this a matter of any significant importance, but actually engaged in an act most unbefitting the integrity of this august body. The ethical implications of this act, unimaginable as they may be, are obvious. Nevertheless, I am raising the issue, and I can assure the Assembly that we shall continue to do so in various United Nations and other international forums. We shall do so until the international community takes action to address our concerns and until this Organization acknowledges the support lent by high officials to nuclear testing in the Marshall Islands. We want to bring to the attention of the international community the reality and the magnitude of the effect of these tests on our health, our environment and our future development as a nation. We also want it to become aware of our daily struggle to cope with a situation whose radiation-induced nature continues to haunt us, whose complexity in terms of solutions is far beyond our capacity to handle and whose conception was solely for the purpose of countering hostilities and tensions that bore no relationship whatsoever to the Marshall Islands. And so I ask Member States, when they hear us speaking out about the perils of radiation, to think about these in terms of human suffering and to try to visualize Marshallese children being born faceless, with no bones, or with missing or extra limbs — the jellyfish babies, as some have come to call them — and the irreparable damage wreaked upon the reproductive health of their mothers. It would be remiss of me, however, not to acknowledge some of the efforts made by the former Trustee in addressing our health and environmental problems caused by radioactive contaminants. We also feel that the international community has an obligation to take serious note of our concerns, as well as to undertake a leading and active role in ensuring that an acceptable process, designed to restore the Marshall Islands to habitable conditions, is effectively and expeditiously set in motion. We were, after all, entrusted by the United Nations itself, and so this body had the moral obligation and the irrefutable responsibility at the time of testing to oversee these activities and to make our safety its primary concern. The same moral obligation, in our view, remains binding even today. Perhaps one of the most gratifying things occurring — which, I might add, is giving us a ray of hope — is that there is now a growing consciousness of the fact that nothing short of a collective effort is needed in order to focus on this issue. That some nations are beginning, although slowly, to understand and sympathize with our plight is most encouraging. This consciousness is clearly reflected in their willingness to incorporate our concerns into pertinent and relevant international texts. I should like to cite some examples. The Review and Extension Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, for example, took special note of the international community’s responsibility to assist the inhabitants and restore the environment of the former United Nations Trust Territories that were adversely affected by nuclear-weapons-testing programmes. The Fourth World Conference on Women, held this year in Beijing, recognized that the concept and practice of environmental degradation are incongruent with 3 development and that the use and testing of nuclear weapons are undeniably one factor in the destruction of the environment, the displacement of people and the creation of high health risks. The South Pacific Forum, held last month in Papua New Guinea, called upon all Governments and international organizations with expertise in the field of clean-up and the disposal of radioactive contaminants to give appropriate assistance for remedial purposes when so requested by affected countries. The Forum also noted the existence of a special responsibility towards those peoples of the former United Nations Trust Territory administered by the United States that had been adversely affected by nuclear-weapon tests conducted during the period of the Trusteeship. This responsibility includes the safe resettlement of displaced human populations and the restoration to economic productivity of affected areas, the provision of adequate health care and compensation for the loss of life, land and health. During the post-Forum dialogue in Papua New Guinea our former Trustee — the United States — took the position that it would not stand in the way of the Marshall Islands’ exploring the question of or soliciting assistance from other countries or organizations for the purposes of the disposal of radioactive contaminants, the resettlement of affected populations and the economic restoration of the environment. Our sincere hope, however, is that the United States will not take its advocating of such a position as an opportunity to bow out of its obligations. It is our hope that it will, instead, redouble its efforts and, with the assistance of other nations and international bodies, lend its full support for the goal of making our country free of radioactive contaminants. I should also like to take this opportunity to thank the current Administration for its willingness to acknowledge the United States Government’s role in using human beings for radiation experiments, including at least two confirmed instances of medical research, which did not provide any direct benefit to Marshallese subjects. The unearthing of these horrendous activities is an act of political courage on President Clinton’s part. For the Marshall Islands, the White House Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments uncovered vital information about the effect of radiation on people and the environment. The Marshall Islands appreciates the United States Government’s recognition that the now infamous Bravo blast was not the only weapon that exposed the Marshallese people and environment to radiation. It is worth bearing in mind that, while Bravo was the equivalent of 1,000 Hiroshima bombs, the total megaton equivalent of weapons tested in the Marshall Islands exceeded 7,000 Hiroshima bombs. It is an important step in our countries’ bilateral relations that we can now begin to broaden our discussion of exposure. Exposure will never again be defined in terms of fallout from Bravo alone, but will now incorporate the cumulative effects of all the tests and the effects of residual contamination in the environment. The Marshall Islands looks forward to continuing to work with the United States Congress and the Clinton Administration to ensure that the recommendations of the Advisory Committee are fully implemented — including the recommendation concerning whether it would be appropriate to add the populations of other atolls to the south and east of the blasts that have shown excessive thyroid abnormalities. We hope that the international community will give these efforts its full support. As if our own four decades of painful experience with the dreadful business of nuclear testing were not enough, there appeared once again this year in our beautiful Pacific the trauma of yet a further series of nuclear tests, intended to continue until May next year. I refer of course to the French resumption this year of nuclear testing at Mururoa. It is probably because we are far removed from metropolitan centres that there is a tendency for certain people to look at the Pacific as the “ideal desert” for nuclear testing, as one French official recently put it. Often overlooked too is the fact that all island nations spread out across the length and breadth of the Pacific are connected by this mighty ocean. Nuclear damage to one island nation poses immense long-term implications and dangers to others in the region. As people who are living the nightmarish experience of nuclear testing, we cannot and will not accept the weak argument that the current tests are safe for any of our Pacific neighbours and friends. Nor can we accept the continuation of this irresponsible practice in the region. We have denounced its resumption from the beginning and will continue to do so. We joined in support of New Zealand’s case against France in the International Court of Justice. We took this action with great regret since France has always been a constructive partner in our relationship with the developed world. It is simply incomprehensible to us that this great nation of culture, science and fine arts could visit this abomination upon us in the Pacific region. We protested 4 to the French authorities, but the first tests went ahead anyway. Although the International Court of Justice declined to hear the case, the decision was entirely based on technicalities. France should not think that this is a victory for it, as many of the judges pointed out that there was a strong moral and legal background for halting the tests. I strongly disagree with the claim made by the French Foreign Minister here a few weeks ago — that the tests were environmentally safe. Look at the situation I have just described in the Marshall Islands. We have also received documentation from a number of eminent scientists which would, at the very least, warrant exercising caution. Furthermore, France is a State party to the Noumea Convention for the Protection and Development of Natural Resources and Environment of the South Pacific Region as well as the Convention on Biological Diversity. The principle of environmental-impact assessment and the precautionary approach are not compatible with the activities that it is carrying out today. The offer to carry out an impact assessment after the tests are finished is a ridiculous offer, since by then it might be much too late. The tests are violating treaties and they are violating our environment, and I also think that they are a violation of our human rights. The tests must stop. They must stop now. The collective voice of the leaders of the countries of the South Pacific Forum was heard when a statement was issued during its meeting in Papua New Guinea expressing extreme outrage at the resumption of French nuclear testing in the Pacific. They demanded that France desist from any further tests. The outrage was especially compounded by the intransigence of France, and the People’s Republic of China, in persisting with their nuclear tests in the face of the strong views of the Pacific region. My Government stands by the decision announced last week by the Chairman of the Forum, Sir Julius Chan, that France is no longer invited to the post-Forum dialogue. We are in full support of the extension of the Non- Proliferation Treaty. We will also work actively to achieve a breakthrough in the negotiations for a comprehensive test- ban treaty. We also acknowledge the support of just, fair- minded and world-conscious leaders and peoples, who have condemned and continue to condemn this anachronistic series of tests in the Pacific. We join our voice to theirs in support. This session provides the community of nations with a unique opportunity to examine our past performance record. As a world-governing institution, the United Nations must look closely at its strengths and build upon them. Likewise, it must pay particular attention to its shortcomings and weaknesses so that it can continue to provide much-needed hope, strength and direction to the nations of the world. I wish to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. His experience and proven diplomatic skills will guarantee the success of this important event. I wish also to congratulate his predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, for the brilliant way in which he guided the work of the Assembly at its forty- ninth session. I take this special opportunity also to acknowledge the extraordinary work of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to promote peace, development and understanding among peoples. In conformity with the premises of the moral revolution led by the President of the Republic, Mr. Carlos Roberto Reina, today’s Honduras is making a unique effort: to consolidate a State truly based on law; to fight corruption at all levels; to encourage active participation among all citizens in a framework of national convergence that will define the guidelines for a new country; to emphasize absolute respect for human rights; and, in the context of a dynamic process of modernizing the State, to adopt substantive institutional legal measures and changes, with a view to strengthening our democratic, pluralistic system of government. Those changes include strengthening the judicial branch; placing the national police under civilian jurisdiction; transforming our compulsory military service into voluntary, educational and humanistic service; allocating 35 per cent of the national budget to health, education and social welfare, which reflects the interest of the State in combating poverty, overcoming social problems and establishing a system of government marked by justice, solidarity and participation; adopting fiscal correction measures to decrease the negative impact of serious long-standing macroeconomic imbalances; beginning the privatization of State-owned enterprises; undertaking financial reform; and taking the action needed to attract direct foreign investment and encourage joint investment. Those are some of the most relevant actions taken by the Government of Honduras; they show that, although our democracy was painfully stricken by the Central 27 American crisis of the 1980s, it has had the courage to face up the unique challenges of today and of tomorrow. Today, Central America is seeking true participation in the new international economic order with an agenda of integration firmly based on the Alliance for the Sustainable Development of Central America. This endeavour is rooted in history, tradition, solidarity and, above all, an awareness of the common destiny of our Central American homeland. In that connection, we were pleased that last year the General Assembly recognized “the importance of implemented, updated and pending programmes, and, in view of the fact that the resources assigned to the Special Plan of Economic Cooperation for Central America have been used up, request[ed] the agencies of the United Nations system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, and international institutions to mobilize the necessary resources to set in motion new national and regional programmes in support of the content of the Declaration of Guácimo, the Alliance for the Sustainable Development of Central America concluded at the Managua Summit, and the Tegucigalpa Commitments on Peace and Development adopted at the International Conference on Peace and Development in Central America”. (resolution 49/137, para. 23) We were grateful for the adoption of that resolution, and hope that its mandate will be renewed at this session of the General Assembly. In pursuance of our efforts at integration, my country will host the next summit of Central American Presidents, where the central topic will be the establishment of a regulatory framework for the security of individuals and their belongings, and the signing of a treaty on Central American democratic security. In our region we can no longer delay the creation of short-term programmes of direct investment, industrial revitalization, transformation of technology and foreign trade, with the necessary support of developed countries. That support can come through the alliance of States friendly to the Alliance for the Sustainable Development of Central America, as was the case initially with the Central America-United States agreement (CONCAUSA). Central America supports open regionalism; as set out in the plan of action of the Summit for the Americas, we believe that free trade is the most appropriate way to establish the world’s most extensive free-trade area. The Central American Integration System (SICA), which resulted from our own efforts and from important cooperation by the international community, hopes that the General Assembly will grant it the status of permanent observer in accordance with relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. That status would facilitate and broaden cooperation between the United Nations system and the Central American Integration System; I am grateful for the support for the draft resolution that Central American countries have jointly submitted to the Assembly for consideration. It is my country’s tradition always to try to solve its international conflicts by peaceful, diplomatic means. I am therefore pleased to announce that, in compliance with the opinion of the International Court of Justice at The Hague concerning the boundary dispute between Honduras and El Salvador, a binational commission has been established to resolve the humanitarian implications of its implementation; its work is being carried out parallel to that of boundary demarcation. It is the honest wish of the people and the Government of Honduras to conclude these priority tasks without delay. Nor is Honduras indifferent to the problems of our sister Republics, especially those of Guatemala. We wish to acknowledge the achievements and commitments of the Government of that country and of the Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca (URNG) towards peace. We urge them to persist in a peaceful, negotiated quest for a solution to their internal differences. My country endorses all the principles set out in the Secretary-General’s “An Agenda for Development”, which recognizes that equitable development removes many of the social and political conditions that result in threats to peace. Most important, it stresses that the human being is the ultimate beneficiary of all efforts towards development and international cooperation. Clearly, “An Agenda for Development” must encourage the implementation of agreements reached in the economic and social sphere. In that context, my country has decided to endorse the principles and implement the commitments set out in the Declaration adopted by Heads of State or Government at the World Summit for Social Development, held at Copenhagen, Denmark, in March this year. We consider that implementation of the Programme of Action is urgent, 28 with a view to establishing a framework for economic growth and sustainable development, and a national and international climate favourable to social development, to the elimination of poverty, to increasing productive employment, to reducing unemployment and to fostering social integration. Only by attaining these goals can we achieve lasting peace and security, economic progress and the social emancipation of all mankind. We therefore appeal to the international community, and especially to developed countries and international organizations, to fulfil their commitment to transfer significant economic and technological resources to developing countries. Similarly, the Government of Honduras gives high priority to speedy compliance with commitments and recommendations made at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro in 1992. We note, however, the lack of adequate resources to implement the programmes and projects adopted as part of Agenda 21. We hope that developed countries will meet their commitments, to enable developing countries to meet their own. Honduras reiterates its commitment to meet the goals of the World Declaration and Plan of Action adopted at the World Summit for Children. My country is a signatory of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and, as part of its national programmes, has adopted policies aimed at attaining the goals set in the Plan of Action. Our Government considers that all boys and girls must enjoy fundamental human rights such as access to education and to health services. One of our priorities is to eliminate family poverty, which is a principal cause of the exploitation of children and infant mortality. The Government of Honduras also participated in the Fourth World Conference on Women, held at Beijing. We are convinced that the Declaration and Plan of Action adopted there will make a further contribution to women’s participation in political, civil, economic, social and cultural life and in sustainable development. The recent conference on review and extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) came at important time in history: when the international community is marking the end of the cold war, an event which eased international tension and strengthened confidence between States. My country reiterates its commitment to the principles and objectives adopted at the review Conference. We remain convinced that the ultimate goal is the complete elimination of nuclear weapons and the adoption of a treaty on general and complete disarmament under strict, effective international control. The Government of Honduras attaches great importance to preventive diplomacy and to the peaceful settlement of international disputes. We believe it is better to prevent conflicts through early warning machinery and good-offices diplomatic efforts than to use political and military action to try to stop them once they have started. We attach equal importance to the building and maintenance of international peace and security, especially through humanitarian activities that involve the urgent solution of the tragedy of thousands of persons displaced and uprooted from their homes and land. Hence, we reiterate our support for the proposals and recommendations made by the Secretary-General in “An Agenda for Peace” and in the Supplement to “An Agenda for Peace”. The Government of Honduras considers that the strengthening of peace, the fundamental objective of the United Nations, can be achieved only through complete respect for the provisions of the Charter. For peace- keeping operations to be successful, they must be based on the principles of international law: non-intervention in the internal affairs of States, and the non-use of force except in self-defence. Moreover, they should be controlled by the United Nations; peace-keeping operations and their mandates must be clearly defined. They should be funded in a timely way and must above all have the consent of the States involved, which in turn must not raise obstacles and must cooperate fully with these operations. In the context of the peaceful solution of international conflicts, it is vital to encourage greater cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and regional organizations. International crises can be resolved effectively if we strengthen the various mechanisms and procedures through which such cooperation takes place. We know that the United Nations continues to face financial problems with a direct impact on peace-keeping operations. Hence, the current machinery for financing must be reformed, taking account of the capacity of States to pay and ensuring that the availability of resources for economic and social development is not endangered. In January this year, with particular interest and in a constructive spirit, we began participating for the first 29 time in the work of the Security Council. Our participation is shaped by respect for sovereignty and for the principle of the self-determination of peoples, and by our commitment to the defence and promotion of human rights and peace. Aware of its responsibilities and within its modest means, Honduras has from the outset contributed to the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO). We have also sent an infantry contingent to help with the humanitarian activities of the United Nations Mission in Haiti (UNMIH). We are determined to continue our participation in such missions in support of peace, security and international humanitarian law. In the Security Council we have given our full support to the Middle East peace process. We hope that the ongoing negotiations will lead to the establishment of lasting peace in the region. We are deeply saddened by the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in particular, and in neighbouring countries as well. We condemn the attempts at “ethnic cleansing” and genocide against the civilian population. We therefore hope that recent peace efforts in the region will bear fruit, especially following the agreement reached at Geneva on basic principles for the peaceful settlement of the conflict. Progress in Angola, Liberia and Rwanda makes us optimistic about peacemaking in those countries. United Nations participation has been vital in that progress, and we therefore unreservedly support it. We hope that in the end these countries will achieve the reconciliation that will enable them to begin their tasks of national reconstruction and development. On 26 June 1945, 50 nations, including my own, with high hopes, signed the Charter of the United Nations at San Francisco. In 1995 we are full of joy at commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of an Organization that has unquestionably served the interests of universality through its gradual expansion. This is also an apt occasion to ponder why all the expectations and dreams of the founders have not yet been met, and to define the mission the United Nations must carry out on the threshold of a new millennium. To address the question of the efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations system with greater dynamism and realism, the international community has made unprecedented demands for redefinition of the tasks of the system in the areas of international security and the promotion of the economic and social development of Members. The end of the century approaches; a new millennium awaits us. We must therefore assess all that has come before; make an in-depth analysis of the weaknesses and strengths, the successes and failures of the Organization; and with realism and fairness set an agenda for the future that will topple injustice, exterminate poverty and throttle warlike tendencies and that will bolster the foundations of a truly unified, humanistic and fair world order. It is painful to see the weakening of the high expectations created by the collapse of bipolar relations. There have been no substantive changes in the behaviour of highly developed countries towards the less developed areas of the planet. We note with concern a wish to replace the old order with a new, ominous bipolar world: a world of countries that enjoy plenty, and of countries that are enmired in poverty and destitution. We must not permit this fatal design to be carried out. Let us show that we can still imagine and create a different, prosperous world that will include us all. Let us hope that the new millennium will see the miracle of international coexistence based on peace, brotherhood and universal well-being. Otherwise, there will be no further chance to see the light of hope for a better future; to use the words of the Honduran poet Roberto Sosa, we will live forever in “a world divided for all”. On behalf of the delegation of the United Arab Emirates, it gives me great pleasure to extend my sincere congratulations to the President on his election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. This demonstrates the esteem the international community holds for the President and his friendly country. We wish him every success and good fortune. We also wish to express our deep appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency Amara Essy, the Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, who presided over the last session with wisdom and competence. I should like to seize this opportunity to express anew our confidence in the strenuous efforts made by Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General, to enhance the role of our Organization in today’s world. This session coincides with the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the foundation of the United Nations. This is an important political event in the history of this Organization, particularly in light of the rapid changes that have taken place in international relations. These changes have contributed, in varying degrees, to the achievement of some progress with regard to a number of issues that relate to disarmament, economic and social development, and to the containment of some regional conflicts. In spite of this, our international community remains far from the desired world peace. New challenges have emerged and have entailed suffering, extermination, expulsion and famine to thousands of people. These, in turn, have affected international life as they have impacted on the economic, political and social situation in the world. Such a situation, of course, does not measure up to the expectations the new regional and international changes gave rise to when they followed on the heels of each other. The hope of witnessing the emergence of a new world order that would favour development, peace, growth and justice has not yet taken a concrete shape that would affect the future of mankind. The emergence of such an order requires a wider framework of regional and international cooperation which would work in favour of finding peaceful solutions to world problems. Such solutions should aim at elaborating a comprehensive approach designed to promote and enhance human, economic and social development, encourage harmony, tolerance and communal solidarity, ensure respect for the customs, traditions and religious beliefs of each community and country, in addition to combating terrorism and its manifestations, combating drug trafficking, and strengthening the role of the United Nations in the areas of peace-keeping, conflict prevention and the mitigation of the human suffering of many peoples of the world, especially in the developing world. We believe that the establishment of such a world order requires a stronger political will and a much wider framework of regional and international cooperation in order for it to be compatible with the thrust of the new international changes. The stability and security of States and the settlement of disputes have become high priorities of today’s world. To achieve stability and security, new practices are needed. Such practices should be based on the provisions of international law and the principles of the Charter, especially the principles of sovereignty, regional peace, non-interference in internal affairs of States, the settlement of disputes and conflicts by peaceful means and the promotion of relations of good- neighbourliness. On this basis, the United Arab Emirates reaffirms its position which calls for direct bilateral and unconditional negotiations with the Islamic Republic of Iran to put an end to its military occupation, which has lasted since 1971, of the three Arab islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Moussa, as those islands form an indivisible part of the territorial sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates. If this is feasible, my country renews its initiative, announced at the last session, which calls for referring the dispute to the International Court of Justice, in view of the fact that the Court is the international body entrusted with the settlement of disputes and that many countries, including Iran, have had recourse to it in seeking to settle similar disputes. 11 Our peace initiatives have received support from sisterly countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council, the League of Arab States and other friendly, peace-loving nations, since what is at stake here is one of our legal sovereign rights. In spite of this peaceful approach, the Islamic Republic of Iran not only rejects those initiatives but also imposes a policy of fait accompli by military force. It has adopted a set of illegal measures with the aim of entrenching its occupation. Those measures conflict, not only with the principles of peaceful coexistence and good- neighbourliness, but also with the provisions of the Charter of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law. Over the past decade, the Arabian Gulf region witnessed a number of conflicts and wars that resulted in devastation and loss in terms of human, material and environmental resources. It would have been wiser to benefit from such resources by striving for economic and social integration and sustainable development in the interests of the region’s peoples who enjoy common bands of history and religion and have common interests. The question of building confidence between the countries of the region has become one of the most significant and focal issues for the Governments of the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council. Over the past few years, those Governments have spared no effort in trying to ease the suffering caused to their peoples by past events whose consequences have demonstrated that the use or threat of force by certain parties will never lead to the achievements of their aim of changing the immutable historical and geographical realities of the region. On the contrary, the use or threat of force creates new crises and disputes that threaten international and regional peace and security. It is our belief that the best way of avoiding such a situation is to opt for dialogue, bilateral and multilateral negotiations, confidence-building measures and to comply with international legality. In this context, we welcome all peaceful efforts and initiatives aimed at the demarcation of boundaries between the sisterly countries of the region. While we wish to put on record our firm position regarding the need to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq, the need to ease the suffering of the Iraqi people and not to interfere in its internal affairs, we call upon the Iraqi Government to meet all its international obligations set out in relevant Security Council resolutions, especially those relating to the release of Kuwaiti prisoners and detainees and the nationals of other countries, as well as the return of Kuwaiti property still in its possession. The United Arab Emirates welcomes the progress made in the negotiations between the Palestinians and Israelis, which led to the Declaration of Principles and complementary agreements, the latest being the agreement on the second phase of expanded self-rule in the West Bank. Implementation by the Israeli Government of those agreements would be an important and essential step towards enabling the Palestinian people to exercise its right to self-determination and to the creation of its independent State on its national soil, like any other people in the world. In the same context, we are of the view that the achievement of a just, comprehensive and permanent peace in the Middle East is contingent on making tangible progress on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks. This will require a greater international effort, especially on the part of the two sponsors of the peace process, to encourage the Israeli Government to comply with its undertakings and obligations in the context of the principle of “land for peace” and of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), which stipulate complete and unconditional Israeli withdrawal from all the occupied Arab and Palestinian territories, including the holy city of Al-Quds, the Syrian Golan and southern Lebanon. The maintenance of international peace and security is a collective international responsibility that requires the existence of political will, a new approach and the adoption of transparency, instead of the application of double standards, if the declared intentions in the field of disarmament and the elimination of weapons of mass destruction are to be translated into concrete realities. In this field, it behoves the international community to take firmer steps to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the possibility of their use in any region of the world. Proceeding from the importance we attach to the achievement of common security, we announce that on 25 September 1995, the Government of the United Arab Emirates completed the legal procedures for acceding to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This is in conformity with our position which calls for the creation of zones that are free from all weapons of mass destruction, especially in the Middle East. This is a goal that cannot be achieved so long as Israel continues to refuse to submit to the system of international monitoring and safeguards or to accede to the Treaty on the 12 Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, a posture that weakens the credibility of the Treaty. In spite of regional and international efforts to rescue Somalia from its plight, conflicts between the disputing factions continue. We therefore call on those factions to end the bloodshed, to renounce conflict and to work towards a settlement that would restore Somalia’s national unity, security and stability. After more than three years of crimes of murder, destruction and “ethnic cleansing” that have continued to be committed by the Serbian forces against the people of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a new turning-point has emerged in the form of the recent peace negotiations that have led to a preliminary agreement on the fundamental principles for a comprehensive settlement based on the decisions of international legality. The United Arab Emirates, which has continued to call upon the parties, since the outbreak of the conflict, especially on the Serbian side, to resort to peaceful dialogue instead of military force, today renews its support for all the efforts undertaken by the international community, especially the Contact Groups of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the European Union and the United States of America, to solve this crisis peacefully and to guarantee respect for the territorial sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, we stress the need, in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, to lift the arms embargo imposed on Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to prevent the repetition of the acts of aggression, massacre and “ethnic cleansing” that the Serbian forces have perpetrated against Bosnian civilians, particularly Muslims. In spite of the positive situations which the changes in economic and social situations at the national, regional and international levels gave rise to over the past few years, the developing countries have continued to suffer from hunger, poverty and an aggravated debt burden, side by side with the decline in the prices of primary commodities, and the inequitable measures that the developed countries continue to apply as part of their economic and trade policies and that contribute to widening further the economic and social gap between them on the one hand and the developing countries on the other. In view of this situation, responsibility for the resumption of dialogue between the countries of the North and the South rests with the international community, in order for it to serve equally the interests of the developed and the developing countries alike. In the midst of the celebrations on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the United Arab Emirates supports the international call for evaluation, reform and development in the structures of the United Nations, especially with regard to increasing the membership of the Security Council and ensuring the transparency and equitable geographical representation needed if the Organization is to face up to the great challenges, whether at the level of consolidating international peace and security or at the level of promoting economic and social development. We should like also to emphasize the need for cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations with a view to creating a wider framework of coordination and consultation, and with the aim of reaching joint peaceful solutions to current conflicts based on international law, with a view to strengthening security and stability and promoting development. In conclusion, we hope that these aspirations will help shape and strengthen the commitment of all States to the principles of the Charter and the provisions of international law and will form a framework for the renewed unification of the power and determination of this Organization, which over the last fifty years has remained a symbol of hope in the ability of humanity to free itself from the scourges of war, hunger and disease and to live in lasting peace and security. On this important occasion, allow me to extend to the President the congratulations of the people and the Government of Zambia upon his well- deserved election to preside over the work of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. We are confident that his broad experience and ability will afford us sure guidance at this historic session of the General Assembly, which marks half a century of the United Nations. I would also like to pay tribute to the outgoing President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, who so successfully presided over the session with great skill and expertise. He leaves the presidency with a record of successes that has enhanced the Assembly’s deliberative role. My delegation would also like to put on record its appreciation for the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has continued to lead the Organization with skill and tenacity under trying circumstances. As we observe and celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, we should also take this opportunity to take stock of the Organization’s past performance, evaluating its achievements and failures, and then proceed to map out our future direction. It cannot be disputed that the United Nations has made outstanding contributions to world peace and security and the promotion of development throughout the world. The United Nations has conducted successful peace- keeping operations in various parts of the world, including Cambodia, Mozambique, Haiti and, very recently, Angola. It is also as a result of United Nations engagement that the world is now entering an era in which the ideals of human rights and democracy are gaining support in many countries. The United Nations is on record as having provided electoral assistance to over 40 countries. 5 This has gone a long way in ensuring free and fair elections. The United Nations has been a strong source of relief from human suffering. Through the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations has provided food, shelter, medicine and education for millions of refugees the world over. Very recently, in 1990, through the efforts of our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and the personal dedication to children of the late James Grant, the World Summit for Children was convened here in New York, where the Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted. This Convention has become the first to receive universal acceptance. This is a remarkable achievement in itself. Against this background of achievements, the Organization has had to deal with many formidable problems, such as the super-Power rivalry of the cold-war era, which resulted in a long period of paralysis in terms of the Organization’s ability to take quick and effective decisions and in the increasing number of ethnic conflicts and tensions around the world, as evidenced by conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Rwanda, Burundi, Somalia and Georgia, among others. The continued unfavourable international economic situation and environmental degradation are serious challenges that the United Nations has had to deal with. Zambia is convinced that the United Nations remains the only world body with the capacity to galvanize political will to face these challenges as we approach the twenty- first century. As a country and Member State, we take this opportunity to reaffirm and renew our commitment to the United Nations. It is quite clear that the United Nations will require a renewed vision for the next 50 years. The agenda to disarm throughout the world is not complete. My delegation strongly feels that as long as there is continued proliferation of weapons, there can never be any hope for lasting peace and security in any corner of the world. My delegation, therefore, welcomes the successful conclusion, early this year, of the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT); the Treaty was extended indefinitely. My delegation wishes to express our grave concern that, soon after the extension, some of the signatories to the NPT have resumed nuclear tests. This is not in the spirit of nuclear disarmament. We also congratulate those that have continued to observe their moratoriums and hope that they will not be swayed by those that are embarking on nuclear testing. Zambia takes note of the ongoing negotiations in Geneva on a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty (CTBT), and urges a speedy and successful completion of that treaty. We also welcome the efforts to strengthen the Biological and Toxic Weapons Convention. However, in spite of all these positive developments in the area of disarmament, there are, of course, other critical areas, such as complete and general disarmament, nuclear technology, nuclear-weapon-free zones, mine clearance as well as peaceful uses of nuclear energy, that remain unresolved. We therefore urge all concerned to give special attention to such issues, in the hope that this will enhance security guarantees. The issue of specific concern to southern Africa, which has emerged from a long period of conflict, is land mine clearance. Many of our people continue to die from uncleared land mines. Accordingly, we call upon the international community to increase its support for the regional efforts being carried out through the Southern African Development Community to de-mine the affected areas in the southern Africa region. In this regard, we wish to express our appreciation to the European Union, which continues to support our efforts in mine clearance. In the area of peace-keeping, Zambia realizes that pursuing peace has not been an easy task for the United Nations and is not likely to be so in the foreseeable future. The Organization needs a clear vision of what must be done in each particular case. The Secretary- General’s Agenda for Peace, we believe, provides that vision. It is an important agenda, which has already assisted in many areas of our peace-keeping operations. We are aware that a quick and effective response in time of conflicts depends on a number of important factors, especially the political will by the Member States to meet resource requirements. In this respect, Zambia supports the establishment of a rapid- reaction-capability force, which we believe will enhance peace-keeping operations and save lives. The protection, promotion and enjoyment of human rights is an obligation Governments and peoples the world over must uphold. The dignity of life cannot be enhanced 6 without full observance of human rights. Zambia therefore believes that the United Nations must continue to give high priority to human rights issues. In this regard, Zambia is gratified that the Fourth World Conference on Women, recently held in Beijing, China, recognized that women’s rights are human rights, and that Governments committed themselves to the implementation of that human rights agenda. The Beijing conference and the other recent United Nations conferences — the World Conference on Human Rights, the International Conference on Population and Development and the World Social Summit — will all need active and integrated follow-up throughout the United Nations system. In this follow-up, the roles of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council are crucial not only for the efficient implementation of the programmes of action, but also for strengthening the Organization in the social and economic fields. Zambia recognizes the urgent need to revitalize the Council’s functions, including improved and enhanced utilization of its various functional committees. Harmonization of institutional arrangements in the entire United Nations system will need to be undertaken as a matter of priority. In terms of the reform of the Security Council, Zambia believes it is necessary to expand the Security Council to enable it to become more representative. It is also our view that the Security Council needs to become democratic and transparent. Zambia would like to see the United Nations give priority to addressing developmental issues in the new millennium. In this regard, I wish to state that Zambia attaches great importance to the realization of the Agenda for Development. Development is a critical area of concern for my own continent, Africa, where poverty, unemployment and social exclusion affect virtually every country. As we approach the twenty-first century, the international community should give added emphasis to the fight against poverty. By fighting poverty, we can assure the progress of individuals, which is essential to the sustained progress of all nations. Zambia is therefore gratified that the World Summit for Social Development committed itself to accelerating the economic, social and human resources development of Africa and the least developed countries. The World Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen, Denmark, in March this year, has, through its Declaration and Programme of Action, challenged Governments the world over to create opportunities through employment generation and social integration that should eradicate poverty. My delegation hopes that Governments will implement its Programme of Action. The poverty obtaining in many developing countries is being exacerbated by the onerous debt burdens most of these countries have continued to carry since the early 1980s. The Naples terms, with the potential to achieve a 67 per cent debt reduction on either export credits or debt service, is only the beginning in offering durable debt relief to developing countries, especially with regard to those with very high debt service ratios. The creditor countries should move beyond modesty and offer terms that can in the shortest possible time frame reduce debt service ratios of the poorest developing countries to 21 per cent of their export earnings. This is the level recognized by the United Nations as the basic minimum requirement to ensure that the poorest developing countries overcome their debt problems and re-establish credit-worthiness. Coupled with the sustained underfunding of many structural adjustment programmes, a modest approach on promoting debt reduction can only have the ultimate result of undermining opportunities for growth, development and prosperity in developing countries. As the World Trade Organization begins its formative years, a new challenge from this institution is emerging in developing countries that will add to the challenges of external debt burdens and poverty. This is the challenge of registering early net losses from the new system of multilateral trade as preferences are removed, food prices rise, subsidies decrease and commodity exports continue to face marginalization. This is especially pronounced for Africa, which, as we all know, has already recorded more than a decade of austerity. While we recognize the long-term opportunities developing countries will gain from the World Trade Organization, it still remains the duty of developed countries to make good their pledges reaffirmed at Marrakesh to compensate net losers in the new system of multilateral trade, by quickly specifying the terms of compensation. Zambia realizes that establishing the foundations of international competitiveness is the key to getting a foothold in the world economy. Our reform measures, which started in 1991, are gaining momentum. The challenge now is to move away from concerns over stabilization and liberalization to the stimulation of production, employment and labour productivity as the 7 basic foundations for poverty reduction. This is being done at the same time as we are building on complementarities already established in the regional integration mechanisms of the Southern African Development Community and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, of which Zambia is a member. However, our domestic reform efforts can only be sustained by generous debt reduction that improves our cash-flow position to levels which regenerate business confidence in Zambia. The debt overhang remains the single biggest barrier to recovery and development in Zambia. In conclusion, I would like to state that Zambia will remain actively committed to achieving these priorities in the framework of the United Nations. We believe in the United Nations and have every confidence that our Organization will lead us into a new era of full of hope and prosperity. First of all, let me express to His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral my sincere congratulations on his election to the responsible post of President of the General Assembly. There can be no doubt that his rich experience, both in life and in diplomacy, will serve to enhance the productive work of our anniversary session. Mr. Traoré (Mali), Vice-President, took the Chair. Five decades ago, having achieved victory over the forces of evil in the Second World War, the international community evinced the wisdom and political will to build together the universal home of peace and common security: the United Nations. And perhaps the main result of the past few decades has been that, with the help of the United Nations, we managed to save the world from another world war. All of us can be proud of that. Although the “big” war spared us, this in no way diminished the increasing danger of small wars in the world, which have caused intense suffering and misery. Economic and social development in the countries where these wars take place is set back for decades. And although the civil war in Tajikistan is now behind us, it is still necessary to pursue the final settlement of the civil conflict. It was the dialogue initiated by the Government of Tajikistan, rather than violent confrontation, that began to yield tangible results. A significant role here was played by international interaction and by joint efforts on the regional level. A perceptible acceleration in the process of dialogue resulted from the meetings between the President of the Republic of Tajikistan, Mr. Imomali Rakhmonov, and the leadership of the armed opposition in Kabul and Tehran. This incontestably demonstrated our good will and our sincere aspiration for the early achievement of complete stability and accord on Tajik soil. We are sincerely grateful to the leaders of the Islamic State of Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran for their personal contribution in arranging the meetings between the President of Tajikistan, Mr. Rakhmonov, and the leader of the opposition, Mr. Nuri. The efforts of these and other countries acting as observers in the inter-Tajik negotiations tangibly supplemented the mediating activity of the United Nations. We are grateful to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, his Special Envoy, Ambassador Píriz Ballón, and also the regional and intergovernmental organizations that acted as observers at the inter-Tajik negotiations for their substantial contribution to the resolution of the conflict. The results of these multilateral efforts have already become apparent. Signed by the sides in the middle of August this year, the Protocol on the fundamental principles for establishing peace and national accord in Tajikistan, which contains, inter alia, the decision to extend the term of cease-fire agreement until 26 February 1996, has created a solid basis for the attainment of general agreement for peace and national accord in Tajikistan. 20 The Government of Tajikistan is in favour of the earliest possible start to an ongoing round of negotiations with the Opposition. We plan to begin this very soon. The intention is that in the course of the forthcoming dialogue the Government and its opponents will agree upon a complete set of issues for a comprehensive peace settlement. A prerequisite for that is that the Opposition agree to act with the Government on a common legal basis. What is important is that, having signed the protocol to which I have referred, the Opposition undertook to conduct its political struggle exclusively by peaceful means and in accordance with current legislation in the Republic of Tajikistan. We cannot ignore the fact that there are difficulties in this process. Among the representatives of the hard-line wing of the Opposition there are forces whose attitude favours terrorism and political and religious extremism. To achieve their own narrow, selfish ends they are inclined to stick to the policy of keeping strong pressure on the Government. Their arsenal includes terrorist acts, intimidation of people inside the country, constant violation of the Tajik-Afghan border, which is protected by border guards of Russia, Kazakstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan, as well as by our own soldiers. The continuous interference from outside in the inter-Tajik conflict has had a negative impact on the settlement process. Evidence of that is the continuing explosive situation on the Tajik-Afghan border, which tends to destabilize the situation in Tajikistan as well as in all of Central Asia. The unstable situation makes it possible for criminal elements to engage in the illegal supply of drugs and arms on a large scale across the southern border of Tajikistan. The consequences of these criminal acts have a negative impact, not just in our country or in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), but also far beyond the borders of the CIS. In this connection, it is appropriate to recall that the leadership of Tajikistan and the States whose military contingents comprise the peace-keeping forces of the CIS have repeatedly requested that these forces be given the status of a United Nations operation. An important reason for that is the accumulated experience of close and constructive collaboration between the United Nations Mission of Observers in Tajikistan and the collective peace- keeping forces of the CIS, as well as the border-guard forces in Tajikistan. This collaboration is already one of the most important factors in stabilizing the situation. The completed process of constitutional reforms and the concomitant peaceful transformation in State power have also contributed to the inter-Tajik settlement. Independent Tajikistan has now acquired a Constitution; the President of the country, who is its guarantor, came to office as the result of popular elections; legislative power is vested in a newly elected Parliament, the Majlisi Oli; all branches of power at the centre, as well as locally, have been strengthened and are working effectively; and the principle of the primacy of the law has made active headway in the country. It is not sufficient simply to note that all these processes took place in the period between the forty-ninth session and the fiftieth anniversary session of the General Assembly: it is fair to note also that much was achieved with the assistance of the United Nations institutions and specialized agencies. While there may have been significant progress in the political process, it has proved quite difficult to improve the situation in the national economy in the period of transition without any support from outside, despite the concrete steps that are being taken towards market reforms. A national currency has been introduced, prices have been liberalized, the process of accelerated privatization is under way, and so on. In other words, the conditions have been created for the development of the economy in the transition period. At the same time, restoring those aspects of daily life that were destroyed by the civil war of 1992 has been extremely difficult. Our health care, education and social security are in critical condition. The question of the return and settlement of refugees and displaced persons and their social rehabilitation remains crucial. We are grateful for the efforts of specialized agencies of the United Nations and other international organizations for their generosity to our country in helping to resolve the refugee problem. As is known, Tajikistan does not have access to the sea. However, it possesses significant quantities of natural resources, and it has substantial industrial potential. If our country were to be approached by international financial organizations this would significantly ease the situation and accelerate the process of reform in the economy. We call upon the States Members of the United Nations to cooperate in mutually beneficial partnership. Stabilization in the economy of Tajikistan will not only 21 serve to satisfy the socio-economic needs of our people; it will become an important factor for further development of democratic institutions in our country, strengthening the machinery for the defence of human rights and the process of national accord and the consolidation of society. As an equal member of the world community, the Republic of Tajikistan, to the extent of its potential, will strive to participate actively in international political life. Tajikistan actively supports the strengthening of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to which it is a party, as well as a comprehensive nuclear-test ban. My country attaches great importance to the development of broad cooperation, not only with the United Nations but also with regional organizations. The Republic of Tajikistan is a striking example of successful practical interaction between two influential international organizations — the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) — in their common interests. The ties between Tajikistan and the OSCE are developing in all major areas of that organization’s activity. We also attach great importance to the activity of Tajikistan within the Organization of the Islamic Conference. Our country pays particular attention to the state of affairs in the Commonwealth of Independent States and to the consistent development of that organization’s ties with each of its members. The development of the situation in the central Asian region is of vital importance to our Republic. The Government of my country is a staunch advocate of the parity approach to the settlement of regional political problems and of the closest possible economic integration of the States in its region. Finally, I should like to say a few words about the situation in a neighbouring country — Afghanistan, which is one of the most dreadful casualties in the aftermath of the cold war. There appears to be no end to the internecine conflict in the territory of this long-suffering nation. We believe that the United Nations and the world community have sufficient political and moral weight to exert a meaningful influence on the parties to this fratricidal conflict with a view to ending the bloodshed as soon as possible. This would undoubtedly be one of the most significant contributions by the United Nations to the establishment of universal peace and security. The 50-year history of the United Nations has enriched us with the invaluable capacity to live in peace with each other despite our differences. Applying this experience, we must give our peoples high hopes for life in the third millennium. In this sense, we share very much the concept of the Secretary-General’s report “An Agenda for Development”. Consonant with this are the joint initiatives of the CIS States at the fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly — initiatives in which Tajikistan has participated. The most relevant of these is the convening of an international conference on refugees and migrants in post-Soviet territory. The package of documented initiatives from the CIS States confirms our will to further integrate the Commonwealth into the international community, and to seek more active participation in the work of United Nations institutions and its specialized agencies. Our joint efforts do not mean that we wish to work in isolation. They simply testify to the fact that there is a great deal that unites us, and there is much we share in common with respect to our development besides having many similar problems. The entire civilized world, with great concern and indeed with growing alarm about what will happen to future generations, has been observing increasing incidents of international terrorism, religious fanaticism and ultra-nationalism. The task of the world community is to unite efforts to counteract the forces of evil. The tragic events in Tokyo, Oklahoma and Budenovsk show that the world must intensify the struggle in those directions, including foiling the attempts of terrorists to get access to weapons of mass destruction, whether they be nuclear, chemical or any other kind. International terrorism, drug trafficking and the illicit traffic in weapons, the emergence of “hot spots” here and there on the planet: these are all interconnected phenomena. The pain and suffering of the people in these “hot spots” call for urgent and joint steps to be taken to wage uncompromising war against these demons of the end of the twentieth century. As the situation now stands, either the principles of high morality and humanity will prevail or the world will be doomed to further suffering. We have no right to allow society to return to the epoch of barbarism. On the eve of the end of the Second World War the founders of the United Nations dreamed about ruling out any global catastrophes in the future. The 50 years of our 22 Organization’s history provide convincing evidence of the constant antagonism between the forces of reason and light and those of injustice and hatred. Today we bow our heads in respect before the tens of millions of people who sacrificed their lives for the sake of peace and justice. Over the 50 years of its existence the United Nations has essentially saved the world from new universal slaughter. Our common task is now to step into the twenty- first century having learned wisdom from the experience of the past, and having provided our children and grandchildren with durable peace, the right to free development and spiritual progress. Mr. President, it affords me great pleasure to congratulate you on your election to direct the work of this historic session of the General Assembly. Such an honour bears testimony to your undoubted dynamism and diplomatic skills, which will in no small measure bear on the outcome of the work of this Assembly. Permit me also to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, of Cote d’Ivoire, for his outstanding leadership of the forty-ninth session. We congratulate him also on the many initiatives that he took in the furtherance of the work of our Organization. Lastly, may I refer to the sterling work that the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Boutros Ghali, continues to do against great odds. His report on the work of the Organization in 1995 has painted in sharp relief the awesome task that faces us at the threshold of a new millennium and as we enter the second half-century of the United Nations existence. The United Nations has been, and will always be, the symbol of humankind’s fervent desire to conduct its affairs with the purpose of eternal survival. When the dark clouds of war threatened to engulf the world with a catastrophe of unimaginable proportions, humankind found strength within itself to negate the Armageddon. The pattern of large-scale wars involving many nations has been reversed, and the worst that we suffered in recent years was a cold war that was more psychologically than physically damaging. Happily, that is now behind us. But, even as we stop to ponder and reflect on the past, a new pattern of ethnic intra-State conflagrations has emerged and continues to threaten the very survival of humanity. This new scenario has posed a serious challenge to the initiatives and peace-keeping capabilities of our Organization. The record of the United Nations in the recent past in peace-keeping has been mixed. We have had unqualified successes in some places, but then in others 4 success has eluded us. Our resolve, therefore, has to be to shift the balance in favour of greater success. Our machinery for peacemaking and peace-keeping needs to be fine-tuned to maximum precision. The implications of this requirement are far-reaching and need to be appreciated in their amplitude. First, the financing of peace-keeping operations must be put on a more secure footing. Persistent arrears, such as those we are currently experiencing, especially when they are incurred by major Powers, cannot but have an adverse effect on the morale of the small countries, such as my own, that make great sacrifices to meet their obligations to the Organization. Secondly, greater attention should be paid to peace- making and preventive diplomacy, thereby reducing the prospects of conflicts, with their attendant costs. In this regard, the ideas contained in the Secretary-General’s Supplement to An Agenda for Peace merit our close attention. The strategy of pre-empting the eruption of conflict is, of course, closely linked to the United Nations efforts in the fields of social and economic development, because it is in the soil of poverty that the seeds of national upheavals take root and sprout. Last, but not least, the changed nature of the challenges facing the Security Council call for the restructuring of that organ to reflect the changed realities of present-day international relations. All the international peace-and-security matters of which the Council is currently seized pertain to developing countries or countries in transition. Thus, it is reasonable to suggest that the composition of the Security Council should include an appropriate proportion of developing countries in both the permanent and non-permanent categories. My delegation therefore supports the view that the reform of the Security Council should be in accordance with the following principles: one, the reform of the Security Council must not put in danger its effectiveness, but, on the contrary, should strengthen it; two, the enlargement of the Security Council should enhance its representative character, taking into account the emergence of new economic and political Powers as well as the increase of United Nations membership; three, the enlargement of the Security Council should enhance equitable geographic representation; four, the possibility of smaller Member States serving on the Security Council should not be diminished; and, lastly, the enlargement should take place in both categories of permanent and non- permanent members. The Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council has continued to address the question of the reform of the Council. It is encouraging to note that discussions have shown a general support for the need to increase the membership of the Security Council, especially of developing countries, and a subsequent need to review the Council’s composition. The general view is that the size and composition of an expanded Council should reflect more accurately the universal character of the United Nations and present-day realities. It has further been recognized that the principle of the sovereign equality of all Members of the United Nations and the concepts of equitable representation and distribution, legitimacy, effectiveness and efficiency should serve as guiding principles for the reform of the Security Council. A number of political questions continue to preoccupy us. In this regard, the leaders and people of Israel, Jordan and Palestine deserve our congratulations on having transformed the hopes and goals embodied in the Middle East peace process into tangible achievements. The people of Israel and the Palestinians have overcome formidable obstacles. Yet the most difficult and divisive issues still remain unresolved. The peace process in that area of the Middle East is of the utmost importance and must therefore be negotiated against a backdrop of continuing and satisfactory progress. Only that will help give both Israel and Palestine the further confidence needed to make the political decisions that will ultimately achieve a lasting solution. We also need to urge the international community to respond quickly, appropriately, generously, practically and flexibly to the needs of the Palestinian people. Achievements must match expectations. In the tragic situation of the former Yugoslavia, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina must be commended for accepting the peace proposal of the five- nation Contact Group, which has been endorsed by the Security Council. This peace proposal, as recent developments have indicated, does not sufficiently respond to the requirements of justice and equity, but we are none the less encouraged by a number of positive developments that have taken place. 5 We therefore urge the international community, in particular, the Security Council and the member States of the European Contact Group, to respond effectively to the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We hope that the logic of peace will finally overcome the logic of war, on the basis of the cease-fire, which is yet to come into effect. In Africa, many significant developments have taken place in respect of peace-keeping that have to be understood in the context of changes in the international environment. The changes include the fatigue and reluctance of the leading world Powers, especially those in the Security Council, to participate in peace-keeping operations in Africa. That reluctance was exemplified by the events in Burundi, where the Organization of African Unity (OAU) had to deploy a limited observation mission because the United Nations could not. On the other hand, however, some of the Western countries have launched several initiatives aimed at identifying ways in which the international community can assist Africa to cope with the challenges of conflict prevention and management. While Africa, in keeping with its determination to combat conflicts on the continent, is appreciative of these gestures from its outside partners, we wish to remind the international community of the United Nations primary role as the guardian of world peace and stability everywhere, including in Africa. Africa remains part of the international community, and the notion that “African problems need an African solution”, as some countries advocate, is erroneous. The determination of Africa to address, through the OAU, the problem of conflicts on the continent should not be misconstrued as absolving the United Nations from its responsibility for peace and security where Africa is concerned. The Sahraoui people have a right to self-determination. We therefore appeal to all parties to respect the decision to hold a referendum in Western Sahara, to be held as scheduled in January 1996. My delegation believes that the key to attaining nuclear disarmament and a nuclear-free world continues to be the universality of the non-proliferation regime. In this connection, therefore, I wish to register my delegation’s strong rejection of nuclear tests, which are clearly inconsistent with the decision of the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) regarding the principles and objectives of nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament, which committed all States to work towards the elimination of nuclear weapons and to exercise the utmost restraint with respect to nuclear testing. We call on all nuclear-weapon States to refrain from any further testing. We express our deep disappointment at the lack of concrete results on the question of the review and appraisal of the implementation of the declaration of the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade. It is important to note that at its forty-ninth session the General Assembly adopted resolution 49/75 B of 15 December 1994, in which it decided to undertake, at its fiftieth session, such a review and appraisal. The Assembly requested the Disarmament Commission, at its 1995 session, to make a preliminary assessment of the implementation of the Declaration and of suggestions that might be put forth to ensure appropriate progress. We regret to note that despite extensive efforts to agree on consensus language, there was a divergence of views and it was not possible to reach a consensus. It is disappointing to note that delegations were not willing to engage in serious negotiations to find even small areas of common ground. In recent decades the Organization of African Unity (OAU) has also adopted a number of other resolutions on disarmament and on the denuclearization of the African continent. Convinced that the establishment of nuclear- weapon-free zones can contribute to the strengthening of the international non-proliferation regime, the sixtieth ordinary session of the OAU Council of Ministers adopted a resolution in which the OAU Secretary-General was requested to convene a joint meeting of the Organization of African Unity inter-governmental group of experts and the Group of Experts to Prepare a Draft Treaty on an African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone set up jointly by the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations. This initiative needs the unrelenting support of the international community, in particular that of the nuclear-weapon States, through their accession to the protocols that concern them in connection with the reduction and prohibition of the use and testing of all weapons of mass destruction. My Government, like the Governments of all African States, is convinced that the establishment of nuclear- weapon-free zones worldwide, through the encouragement of the United Nations — especially in the Middle East, as already proposed by Egypt — would enhance the security of Africa and the subsequent viability of the African nuclear-weapon-free zone. 6 In the social and human rights field, the United Nations continues to make some progress. The World Summit for Social Development, held at Copenhagen in March, was a milestone in humankind’s quest for consensus on universal standards for social development. The implementation of the undertakings which the Heads of State or Government made needs to be monitored closely in order to assess the degree of progress being made in achieving those undertakings. In this regard, the 20/20 compact is an important step in the direction of international collaboration to achieve balanced development of the social sector. It is the intention of my Government to fulfil its commitment to allocate 20 per cent of its development budgetary allocation to the social sector; we expect our development partners to meet us half way in this endeavour. The outcome of the Fourth World Conference on Women is still very fresh in our minds, having been achieved only a few weeks ago. Although it was unfortunate that some countries found it necessary to enter reservations in respect of certain paragraphs of the Platform for Action, we are encouraged that a significant step forward was taken towards the goal of recognizing the right of women to be equal partners with men and to have complete control over all aspects of their lives. The triple goals of equality, development and peace, enunciated 20 years ago in Mexico City, underscore the undeniable truth that development and peace are not feasible while half of the world’s population is discriminated against and not allowed to realize its full potential. My delegation reaffirms our Government’s determination to forge ahead with vigour with the implementation of the Platform for Action until the full emancipation of women is attained. In this connection, I should like to call for an early follow-up and review conference lest the momentum generated in Beijing be lost. There is a widely held myth that the developing world is experiencing a high growth rate because of the remarkable economic performance of East Asia. How can this be true when a total of 47 developing countries classified as least-developed countries continue to fight for survival? These countries account for 10 per cent of the world’s population but earn only 0.1 per cent of the global income. For over two decades now, they have continued to experience serious declines in per capita income. Their share of world trade has declined from 0.6 per cent in 1980 to 0.2 per cent in 1992. Africa continues to be the region most in need of help. The 1995 economic growth indicators, however, present an encouraging picture. For the first time in over six years, the economic-growth rate is projected to match the population-growth rate, which is, unfortunately, the highest in the world. Africa has been used over the past 20 years, and is still being used, as a policy laboratory for the Bretton Woods institutions. It is regrettable that today, as the United Nations celebrates its fiftieth year since the signing of the Organization’s Charter in San Francisco, many people in Africa continue to live under even harsher conditions of poverty, hunger, disease, civil war and natural disaster. The plight of the African continent remains a major challenge for the emerging world order. There is an urgent need for a stronger consolidated effort to pull the continent out of the poverty trap into which it continues to sink. A few months ago at Geneva, the Economic and Social Council, at the high-level segment of its 1995 substantive session, deliberated an item entitled “The development of Africa, including the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s”. The high-level segment recognized that, among all the five regions of the world, Africa continues to be the only one lagging far behind in terms of development and that it remains the most marginalized in the world economy. Allow me at this juncture to take this opportunity to applaud the Government of National Unity of the Republic of South Africa for having embarked on a reconstruction and development programme as a strategy for tackling the thorny issue of the economic imbalances created by the policies of apartheid. It is important for the international community to realize that the entire southern African subregion was as much affected and that it still suffers from the impact of the apartheid legacy. Any international support for the implementation of the reconstruction and development programme in South Africa should take this fact into account. The southern African States members of the Southern African Development Community continue to pay priority attention to closer and stronger integration of their economies. The international community should make its best endeavours to ensure that our efforts are adequately supported through complementary financial and technological support, including improved terms of trade, increased flows of direct foreign investment and appropriate debt relief measures. 7 Lesotho, as a land-locked and least developed country, attaches great importance to issues of concern to the least developing countries, particularly their transit transport problems. We welcome the adoption by the intergovernmental meeting of the land-locked and transit developing countries, donor countries and financial institutions of a framework for cooperation to alleviate transit transport problems of the land-locked States and of their transit neighbours. It is our sincere belief that this session of the General Assembly will seriously address itself to the provisions of this framework, with a view to speeding up their implementation. The Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s remains largely unimplemented. Lesotho, as a least developed country, is seriously concerned about this. In Lesotho, as in many other countries in Africa and other regions, we have undertaken far-reaching political reforms, thus heeding the international clarion call to restore democratic administration, popular participation, accountability and good governance. These reforms have been undertaken amidst painful but necessary structural adjustment programmes intended to improve our macroeconomic policies and structures. The international community needs to realize that the success and sustainability of all these reforms cannot be guaranteed unless they bring about tangible results and satisfy the expectations of our people, particularly the most disadvantaged. Our cooperating partners, in the forefront of advocates of democratic rule, seem to be relinquishing their responsibility of seeing to it that democratic institutions are sustained. In most of our countries our fledgling democracies face the serious challenge posed by lack of resources initially promised by our friends. We see emerging in each of our countries pockets of discontent which in essence challenge and destabilize the very shaky foundations of our young democracies. We in Lesotho understand very well the complementarity of democracy and development, and it is on this basis that we call upon our partners to carry out as a matter of urgency their international responsibility, particularly in this area. For two consecutive years now, Lesotho has been experiencing an unprecedented devastating drought, which has adversely affected food production. This year the quantity of acreage cultivated was substantially reduced, due to lack of rainfall. As a result of the drought, the Government had to declare a state of food emergency and send urgent appeals to our traditional and new food donors for a helping hand. Unfortunately, not very encouraging responses have so far been received. It is therefore my humble duty and responsibility to renew this appeal to the international community through the Assembly. Today’s world is increasingly being made smaller and smaller by technological advances. Developments in one part of the world are of direct relevance and interest to other parts of the world. Closer cooperation and collaboration between partners is more urgently needed than ever before. South-South cooperation has to be further strengthened and universalized. In this regard, the importance of triangular arrangements for promoting and expanding South-South cooperation cannot be over- emphasized. Furthermore, increased transfer of modern productive and efficient technologies is a necessary condition for all the nations of the world to be able to fulfil their obligations and commitment to leave man’s common heritage — the Earth — in a condition that will enable future generations to sustain life on it. Many of us are doing our best to develop the full potential of our human resources through education, good health, a clean living and working environment and nutrition. We have put in place appropriate policies to ensure the realization of this noble objective. We are worried about slow progress towards the discovery of a permanent cure for the HIV/AIDS pandemic, and would urge all humankind not to spare any effort or resources until this menace has been vanquished. We therefore join the appeals for increased political commitment and financial and material support for scientific and other research that will lead to the discovery of a cure for this disease. For a long time the nations of the world have expressed their desire to enhance the international justice system. The recognition that an international criminal court was an essential element in building respect for human rights throughout the world led the Members of the United Nations nearly half a century ago to pledge to create a new system of international justice. Progress in this regard has, however, been slow. The atrocities in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda provided an impetus to establish a permanent international criminal court. Lesotho supports the view that a permanent international criminal court should be established by 1996. We believe that the most practical method of establishing such a court is by a multilateral 8 treaty that would enter into force following ratification by a reasonable number of States. It is our fervent belief that such a court would be the living embodiment of the fundamental principles of international criminal law. Besides being able to hold individual perpetrators of human rights violations personally liable, the court would complement prosecutions in national courts by acting when States were unwilling or unable to bring perpetrators to justice. The commendable efforts of the International Law Commission in preparing the draft statute for the court are to be applauded. It now remains for Governments and other organs of civil society to strengthen the draft statute to ensure that it is a model of justice, fairness and effectiveness. In a few days the United Nations will be marking the first half-century of its existence. This historic occasion, which the world with its different races, ethnic groups, religions, and creeds will celebrate, will reach its peak here at United Nations Headquarters, where world leaders and Heads of State will meet. This occasion, while it should reaffirm the need for the United Nations, and underline its importance and the importance of its principles, objectives, and activities, will, at the same time, pose certain questions about the current state of the Organization and where it stands today. Such questions must be viewed in the context of the principles that governed the establishment of the United Nations and the objectives it was meant to achieve. For it must be recalled that mankind wanted the United Nations to be an enterprise for peace, harmony, solidarity, dialogue, and rapprochement amongst peoples and cultures of the world. Through this legitimate dream, mankind sought to build an edifice for rights, justice and peace. The United Nations was meant to be an arbiter, a forum where people could seek to defend their rights whenever they are denied, and to redress injustice whenever oppression prevails. By establishing the United Nations, humanity 4 wanted to put an end to the era of war and to open the door to peace, national sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity, and to protect peoples’ freedom of choice. In the era of the communications and transportation revolution, when political, economic, demographic, security and cultural barriers are lowered, people need the United Nations more than ever. They need a forum for constructive dialogue and an effective and permanent mechanism for consultation, cooperation, and coordination. We are witnessing a scientific and technological revolution that intensifies the need for a greater synergy that would enable us to meet increasingly complicated demands and challenges, to bridge the widening gap between nations and, together, to do what no nation can do alone. The world’s demographic explosion has put the Earth’s environment under constant pressure to cater to the increasing demands made upon it. Competition for the world’s resources is on the rise, as is the imbalance between human needs and disposable resources. The accumulation of lethal and sophisticated nuclear, chemical, and bacteriological weapons, and the concomitant increase in their destructive capabilities across continents, increase peoples’ risk of annihilation. Their proliferation and possession by some States that lack even the absolute minimum of credibility and fail to provide any political guarantees regarding the decision to use such weapons, increases the world’s need for guarantees and controls on armament. The information revolution is contributing to the rapid dissemination of information about political, scientific, and economic achievements across boundaries. Unequal access to information by some societies is accentuating their isolation and causing them to be bound by their traditions, either because they want to protect their national identity, or because they are unable to assimilate such achievements. Extremist and fundamentalist tendencies express the fear haunting these societies against what are often perceived as threats to their national identity. All these risks make it more important than ever before to reactivate United Nations machinery and to reinvigorate confidence in its justice and credibility, to free its decisions from hegemony, to redress its imbalances, and to apply the same standards in its approach and commitment. That is the path we should take if the United Nations is to remain a world authority and an alternative to heated confrontations. So, where do we stand at present with regard to the moral authority and credibility of United Nations resolutions? How can we apply one standard across the board? The world has witnessed and continues to witness a number of local and regional crises. Lebanon, which has suffered from the scourge of war, follows what is happening around the world with grave concern and interest. Rwanda and Bosnia and Herzegovina are two clear examples of our inability to act in the face of horrible atrocities. More than 20 years have passed and the Cypriot problem still awaits settlement, despite numerous relevant resolutions adopted by the General Assembly and Security Council to unify the island and to protect its independence and territorial integrity. The question of the islands of the United Arab Emirates still awaits a solution that would ease tension in the region. Four years ago the Madrid Conference was convened. We were optimistic about the invitation, the content, and the sponsorship. As the co-sponsors were super-Powers, and the Conference was to be convened on the basis of establishing a just, comprehensive, and lasting peace anchored in the principle of “land for peace”, and on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), and 425 (1978) respectively, we accepted the invitation, assuming that those who accepted it were also in agreement with its content and that what remained to be done was to discuss the questions of mechanisms and schedules. However, years have passed and months have gone by while some waited for the results of elections and for the arrival of the opportune moment at the domestic level. Time has passed while some awaited circumstances that, they bet, were bound to strengthen their positions, or conducted secret negotiations that they expected to weaken, isolate or single out some other side. The result has been that we are still discussing today the basic principles which were supposed to have been settled at the very beginning of the Conference. The principle of land for peace still awaits the materialization of the concept of “land”. The principle of withdrawal is still being obfuscated by the term “redeployment”. We are told that resistance must cease, without any guarantee that withdrawal or liberation will ever take place. We are told that the boycott must end, but no guarantee is given that usurped rights will be 5 restored. We are required to engage in multilateral negotiations on complementary subjects while the fundamental bilateralism remains frozen and while we know not whether there will be peace, or what the form and content of that peace will ever be. We are required to shake hands and to celebrate before we know what exactly we are supposed to celebrate. We, the victims of aggression, are required to give security guarantees to the aggressor. Those who do not possess weapons are required to reassure those who possess one of the largest nuclear and chemical arsenals which the world could not make subject to the Non-Proliferation Treaty when the Treaty was extended. The media hype that surrounded the recent signing of the second Protocol between the Palestinian Authority and Israel, which glorified the event and amplified its content, makes us wonder about the extent of the authority that will be exercised by the Palestinian people, the size of the territories that would be returned and, ultimately, to wonder about the fate of three quarters of the Palestinian people who were displaced from the land of Palestine. What about their right to return, their right to a nationality, to an identity? What about those whose status was never discussed either at Oslo or at Taba? We wonder: Could those tiny specks of land — in which an authority less than that of a municipality will be exercised — be called the Palestinian homeland? Doesn’t the isolation of those tiny specks into so-called security islands mean additional prisons in which anger and rancour will fester? Will the 400,000 Palestinians who are now in Lebanon and others who are elsewhere in the world ever enjoy their long-awaited right of return? How can we have faith in a country that boasts of its desire for peace and its intention to restore legitimate rights to people while it continues to violate those rights, to build settlements and to occupy and confiscate land? It cannot be credited unless it desists from such actions forthwith, particularly in southern Lebanon, where it has recently confiscated lands. Could this bloated glorification by the media serve as an alternative to the restoring of legitimate rights? Could this anaesthetization of international public opinion, this illusion of a solution, actually put an end to the problem? We in Lebanon are patiently and diligently continuing to rebuild our homeland after the destruction of a ravaging war. We are continuing to build our institutions and our security. Those who had emigrated are continuing to return to their homeland, and those who were displaced are continuing to return to their villages. Laws are being enacted so that Lebanon may regain its natural place in the Middle East on the economic, political and cultural levels. Lebanon has suffered for far too long from the consequences and reverberations of the Middle East crises. Lebanon has paid its heavy dues. Once again it proves that it is capable of facing difficulties and rising up to challenges and that its unity formula is much stronger than was once believed, because it is the only definitive reality. Lebanon will once again prove that certain nations have a history that is more extensive than their geography and a role that is much larger than their physical size. As long as Lebanon’s sovereignty and independence continue to be compromised; as long as major parts of its land continue to be out of its control; as long as the Lebanese State continues to be unable to extend its full sovereignty over all its national territory by its own legitimate national forces; as long as Israel continues to occupy Lebanon’s territories 17 years after the adoption by the Security Council of resolution 425 (1978) which demanded Israel’s complete withdrawal from Lebanon; as long as Lebanese citizens continue to languish in Israeli prisons and detention camps, ignored by the international community in clear violation of their human rights — as long as all this continues, the wounds will never heal and the bleeding will never stop. So long as the occupation of more than one eighth of our national territory continues; so long as Israeli raids daily sow our land with cluster bombs, fission bombs, scatter bombs and booby traps for the killing of children; so long as such criminal acts continue to be perpetrated against a people that refuses to surrender; so long as our women continue to mourn the loss of their loved ones and so long as our children cry out, the cries of anguish will continue to haunt the world and the voices raised against injustice will grow louder than the roar of the guns that defend a senseless occupation. The occupier has used all the means available to it, but has failed to contain this anger. Israel’s logic of security zones inside Lebanese territories and security belts has failed also. The cost has by far outweighed the returns. The Security Council’s method in dealing with Lebanon’s complaints does not represent the optimum means of performing the role of that important body. We 6 have waited so long for the implementation of Security Council resolutions. Instead, the Council has refrained from condemning aggression, and if it happens to do so, it tends to equate the aggressor with the victim of the aggression. When it fails to condemn, it uses as a pretext the desire not to cause any distortion to the peace process. The peace negotiations, however, do not absolve the Security Council from the obligation to perform its appointed role at any given moment, especially when an act of aggression is committed in the shadow of a peace process. Nor do they absolve the Council from its responsibility towards international peace. Discriminating in the application of United Nations resolutions for some and depriving others of the right to call for implementation; discriminating in the application of the stipulations of Chapter VII of the Charter on some trouble-makers while refraining from such application on others in a sort of cover-up for the practices of those protected others, will deprive the United Nations of credibility as an arbiter to whom the nations of the world have recourse in search of justice. The days when the problems of people were confined to their own countries are over. The days when State boundaries were barriers that contained a country’s crises are over as well. Regardless of how distant any country may be from a crisis area, it can none the less remain subject to repercussions of such crisis. Thus every country remains vulnerable to the political, economic, environmental, demographic and security problems of other countries. The Middle East must not forever be a fiery volcano that threatens international peace and security. This way, the region will not see better days nor will time be forever on the side of those who seek peace. We have to realize that peace must be equitable, not biased; just, not unjust; genuine, not ceremonial; balanced, not deficient. Peace must help the refugee to return rather than consecrate his displacement. Peace must satisfy those who rebel against injustice, not provoke their anger. The new tendency to weigh the suitability of resolutions, to selectively enforce some and freeze some, to elaborate different interpretations to different resolutions, an enterprise that is engaged in, from time to time, in the wings of the Organization under the pretext of having to interpret resolutions with reference to the circumstances under which they were adopted, all this threatens credibility of the United Nations as a whole. This then is the situation we face today, and it is against the backdrop of this situation that I congratulate the President on his election at this session and extend appreciation to his predecessor, to the Secretary-General and to the commanders, officers, and soldiers of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), whom I wholeheartedly thank for their valuable efforts under difficult circumstances. May God guide us to peace and to acquitting ourselves in the eyes of the generations to come. Let me first congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I wish you a successful presidency. Appreciation is also due to your distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, who provided the leadership during the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. The General Assembly is meeting in the midst of hectic schedules of events to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. Some of us have become preoccupied with these celebrations. We should ask whether these activities are merely media events or could seriously contribute to a better United Nations. Will the high point of the fiftieth anniversary be reduced to a special commemorative meeting condensed into a declaration of good intentions which no one seriously cares for, or should we resist the tendency to celebrate, to expend millions on galas and parties and to eulogize through rhetorical speeches the anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations? After all we cannot even answer the basic questions of where we stand and what the United Nations is, whipping boy or serious, enduring player. Admittedly it is easier to raise questions than to find answers. But these questions must be raised and they deserve to be answered. In its fiftieth year the United Nations system finds itself criticized for being unable to handle basic and critical political, economic and social issues. Despite earlier hopes of a just world order following the end of the cold war, what we still see is a United Nations which dances to the grating music of the major Powers, in total disregard for the high principles and objectives pledged at its formation. We will have to conclude that the narrow national interest of the few is still what the United Nations is all about. Also, the principle which largely moves the major Powers, that what they need for themselves must influence their dealings with the needs of others, is fully operative, making nonsense of interdependence, social compassion and justice. And so we must forget the promise of an international political leadership that can collectively come to grips with the myriad issues for a shared survival. Confrontation between States, intra-State conflicts, economic and military threats, the dehumanizing effects of poverty: all these are heightened rather than diminished by the end of the cold war. The contradictory impulses of interdependence and isolationism are more evident than ever before. Not only is humanitarianism drying up fast, but what survives is replete with conditionalities. The United Nations presents a shattered image with a threadbare moral authority, despite the important early successes in decolonization and the subsequent elimination of apartheid. The victors of 1945 have clung tenaciously to the levers of power. They control the high ground, exercising influence and power as nakedly as when they were colonial Powers. Only the masks have changed. The multilateral organizations created on the eve of war’s end were and still are structured to further their economic interests and the pursuit of their strategic political goals. The Security Council, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have merely become the instruments of power perpetuation. Less than six months ago, we witnessed the use of the United Nations to push through, draconian-like, the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty. Before the ink was dry, some of the nuclear Powers proceeded to test their diabolical weapons. What, may I ask, qualifies some countries to possess the means of mass destruction in perpetuity? It is time that the nuclear-weapon States committed themselves to nuclear disarmament through a programmed reduction of their nuclear arsenals within a specific time-frame, beginning with the immediate cessation of all nuclear tests and culminating in their total elimination. Soon it may be too costly and too late. Perversely, the major Powers not only continue to compete in developing ever more destructive conventional weapons but also compete to sell arms. And when some developing countries buy arms the Western-controlled media accuse them of indulging in arms races. We seem to have inherited a world in which moral considerations have no real role to play in which acts of realpolitik have no moral consequences. Tears appear to be shed about the human tragedies in Bosnia, Rwanda, Liberia, Somalia and Chechnya, but many have become desensitized to the horrors that flash across our screens. The Charter incorporating the idealism and dreams of 1945 is more honoured in violations of it than in adherence to it. Tell us: How have the principles of the Charter on the non-use of force and the illegality of claiming territory acquired by aggression been of help to the Bosnians? What protection or solace has the genocide Convention been to those slaughtered in Rwanda, Bosnia, Cambodia and Chechnya? The lesson for the peoples of these countries is clear: no international order or international ethos will be defended unless the major Powers see that their vital interests are at risk. The United Nations has been party to the double talk in Bosnia, insisting that morality has no place in peace- keeping since the impartiality that peace-keepers had to maintain required them to eschew making any judgement about the rights and wrongs of the situation. I ask the United Nations whether there can be a middle ground where genocide and “ethnic cleansing” are concerned. I ask the Secretary-General of the United Nations whether he is obliged to defend the moral principles in the United Nations Charter or whether he should console the dying and the bereaved by saying that there are others elsewhere who are suffering worse fates. Is there not, in the context of the larger picture, a special role for the United Nations to provide international leadership? Clearly the major Powers have failed to provide leadership, choosing only to act in furtherance of their national or domestic political interests. They continue to harp on human rights and the sanctity of human life but they act only when they run no risk. Admittedly, blame must also be apportioned to many of us in the third world. Some of us have led our people down the path of despair and misery. With the demise of colonialism there was the promise of freedom and development. Yet many succumbed to the temptations of creature comfort, failing to further the rights and welfare of our own people. But then, when we were colonies, the only form of government we knew was authoritarian colonialism. It is too much to expect some of us, at the midnight flag-lowering, suddenly to become democratic and sophisticated. The threat of a brutalized world has never been more evident than in the Serb programme of “ethnic cleansing” in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the massacres in Rwanda. For a long time the major Powers were opposed to taking strong measures against the Serbs. We are seeing belatedly some sense of purpose in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) bombings and efforts to negotiate a solution. However, we should be cautious about rushing towards solutions that reward aggression and genocide. It is possible that some in the West and in the United Nations had longed for Bosnia’s quick defeat. It would have saved them from making any decision. But 2 the Bosnians refused to oblige. In Rwanda the European troops withdrew when the massacres began. And in Somalia failure to understand the situation led to the victims fighting their United Nations saviours. The United Nations Secretariat must take some of the blame for all these brutalities. In Rwanda it truly shirked its duty, while in Bosnia it sent in a protection force which was instructed not to protect the Bosnians. Why it should be called the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) has been a mystery until recently. It was there to protect itself. It makes a distinction between peace-keeping and peace-enforcement. If there is peace to keep, why are military forces needed? Are not the forces put there because of the possibility of breaches of the peace? And when there are breaches the forces must stop them, if peace-keeping is to be meaningful. But, instead, when peace is broken the United Nations threatens to withdraw and leave the victims to their fate. Fortunately, in Palestine, another historical flash point, efforts continue to be made towards durable peace. That peace process must result in a Palestinian homeland, a viable State at peace with its neighbours. The attempts to weaken the present Palestinian leadership by undermining its credibility will only result in the rise of extremism and a protracted and bloody intra- Palestinian conflict which will spill over into Israel and elsewhere. The absence of international leadership and commitment is evident in the area of development as well. The rhetoric of development is increasingly devoid of meaningful content. The North has turned its back on commitments relating to development assistance. Yet such is the concern for the survival of insects and plant life that human development must be stopped if it is suspected it might endanger a few animals or plants. That there are plenty of the same species elsewhere is considered irrelevant. And so one-fifth of the world’s population remains mired in poverty, having been denied development assistance by the rich and the powerful. The latter have retreated into their regional clubs and cosy arrangements for perpetuating unconscionable levels of consumption. Some of the countries of the South have tried to pull themselves up literally by their bootstraps. But the moment they appear to succeed the carpet is pulled out from under their feet. Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) privileges are withdrawn and their records on human rights, democracy, and so on, are scrutinized in order to obstruct their progress. Some among the more successful countries of the South have been enticed to join the rich and the strong, so they may not lend what little strength they have to their compatriots. Commitment to the environment should not be turned into an occasion for recrimination and the pointing of fingers. Worse, it should not be politically instrumentalized to disadvantage the South. Development can take place without irreparable damage to the environment. Forcing the developing countries to remain undeveloped in order to preserve the environment for the rich is manifestly unfair. Yet the environmental obstacles placed in the way of the poor South will do just that, beggaring the poor to enrich the already rich. Poverty itself creates an environment that is as damaging to humanity as any other kind of environmental pollution. Obviously, we need to determine our priorities. Do we keep the poor permanently poor so that the rich can enjoy the environment, or do we sacrifice the environment a little in the interest of relieving poverty? We in Malaysia accept that economic development should not be at the expense of other groups or future generations. Environmental sustainability, social equity and a culture that allows for the fulfilment of human needs must replace the culture of materialism. The Western consumer society, which is spreading world wide, requires ever-increasing consumption to keep production and profits continually rising. For this, more fuel is needed, and the trend in the use of fossil fuels in recent years is alarming. Yet very little is being done to curb such wasteful use of a depleting resource, while the development of renewable resources, such as hydropower, meets with all kinds of objections. Progressively industrializing Malaysia has the capacity and the resources to design and implement a model of development sensitive to the needs and cultural values of developing countries without imitating the flawed Western model. We ask only that misguided crusaders should keep out. These modern-day imitations of the Communist agitators would do well to look to their own countries’ wasteful consumption and carbon-dioxide emissions. Social disintegration is a serious problem as the world’s population becomes more urbanized. This is not helped by the West’s seeking to impose its moral values. The institutions that hold society together are now being undermined. At the Beijing Women’s Summit, despite a consensus cobbled together to alleviate the sufferings of women, the mad quest for personal freedom took one more tradition-bashing step. People, it seems, cannot be free unless they have sexual freedom, a freedom that 3 rejects the inhibitions of traditional and religious values, of marriage and family as institutions of society. Sexual freedom will render fidelity meaningless as much as it renders marriages anachronistic. The new liberalism extends to a new definition of the family, which is to include homosexual pairs, unmarried women with children by unknown fathers, groups of men and women living together with no fixed partners, and many other combinations. If the West wants to be liberal and sexually free, that is its right. What is wrong is the attempt to impose its morality, or lack of it, on the rest of the world, and in Beijing that was what it tried to do. The United Nations should not lend itself to this kind of undemocratic disregard for the rights of others. Of late there has been much talk about reform of the United Nations. Clearly, there is a need for this after 50 years of the United Nations carrying the tattered baggage of the last world war. Surely the results of that war cannot be reflected in the structure and procedures of the United Nations for ever. It has to end some time, and the fiftieth anniversary is as good a time as any for burying the relics of past follies. Since democracy seems to have displaced religion as a faith, it is fitting that there should be democratic reforms in the United Nations. Some of those countries which had vested themselves with infallibility and permanency have now become second-raters. New players have emerged that should be accorded recognition. A more equitable representation on the Security Council is a must. This means that permanent seats should be given to regions, possibly determined by a regional mechanism. The veto power should be dropped. Under no circumstances must the Security Council be made an instrument of any one country. Reform must also extend to the financing of the United Nations. It is wholly unacceptable that Member States, especially the rich ones, should fall into arrears with impunity and yet exercise special rights and influence. The membership rules must be applied to one and all. New bases for assessment should be laid down, taking into consideration the wealth, or lack of it, of Members. Various global taxation schemes, including modest levies on global air travel, a tax on global speculative flows of capital, a tax on the exploitation of mankind’s common assets on the seabed and a tax on the trade in weapons of war, have all been proposed. Of those, the last one, based on the principle that he who profits from the tools of war must contribute to the maintenance of peace, merits urgent attention and adoption. Reform of the United Nations also requires the cleansing of the bureaucratic Augean stables in the Secretariat. The morale of the international civil service is at its lowest ebb. The excesses and the fat must be trimmed, but failure to do so must not be used as an excuse for not paying dues or for opting out. It is heartening to note that the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and other United Nations economic agencies have now acknowledged that linking trade and non-trade issues serves no useful purpose either for the developed or for the developing countries. Unemployment in the developed countries is due not to workers’ in developing countries working hard to compensate for their lack of other competitive advantages, but, rather, to the profligate ways of the developed nations, with their high wages and unemployment benefits. Why it is assumed that workers in developed countries would work when they are to be paid for not working is a mystery on a par with the idea that people would be happy and productive if the diligent were paid as much as the indolent. The reform of global institutions must encompass the Bretton Woods institutions. Their energies and resources must be channelled towards the battle against the pollution caused by poverty worldwide. The Bretton Woods institutions have to cease acting as debt collectors for the mighty and the rich bankers, who, in turn, must learn to live within the rules of their own creation, with regard to taking commercial risks which go hand in hand with the pursuit of gain. A return to their original mandates — to promote balanced development, in the case of the World Bank, and to enforce monetary and fiscal responsibility in all countries, irrespective of their status in the global economy — is a first priority. Reform must include a re-evaluation of the governance arrangements at the Bank and the Fund through a realignment and reallocation of quotas and shareholdings that take into account the changed structure of the world economy. New arrangements for governance must recognize the growing clout of the newly emerging economies that now contribute to a rising share of global output, to trade and to capital flows. The debt millstone weighs heavily on the poor. This burden must be eased, especially for the poorest nations of Africa and Asia. Malaysia hopes that effective actions will be taken forthwith, taking into account decisions made at the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly on finding a durable solution to the external-debt problem of developing countries. While bilateral debts extended by donor countries have over the years been restructured and rescheduled — though with humiliating conditions imposed by the Paris Club of creditors — multilateral institutions, led by the World Bank, have steadfastly refused to consider restructuring debt owed to them. The World Bank continues to increase its profit levels and amasses reserves which today stand in excess of $16 billion. Why are these reserves, built from payments by developing countries, not used for debt relief? And why do we allow the intransigence of one or two countries to preclude the issuance of special drawing rights by the International Monetary Fund? These and other issues must feature in a reform of the Bretton Woods institutions. The conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the establishment of the World Trade Organization offer a glimmer of hope for rule-based trading relationships. Malaysia applauds and welcomes the underlying principles, and we pledge ourselves to play by the mutually agreed undertakings. Regrettably, powerful trading nations threaten, through unilateral actions, to undermine the carefully negotiated agreements. The deliberate creation of regional trading blocs, the introduction of managed trade and the attempts to link human rights, environmental considerations and labour codes to trade are major threats which, if implemented, would dim the hope of a free environment for trade. We reject such attempts. The new protectionism will return the world to a bygone era when trade wars led to military confrontations. Finally, we have the new threats with the advent of the information age. The poor countries have long suffered from biased reporting by the world media, controlled by the developed world. Now the computer network created for the spread of knowledge and information has become polluted by the irresponsible dissemination of filth through it. Someone is making money from this filth. The world community must find a way to keep out such filth and to provide for legal action to be taken against its purveyors by aggrieved countries, even when they broadcast from outside their borders. They should be allowed to bring these miscreants to trial in the aggrieved countries, under their laws. After all, we have already had many instances of extraterritorial application of the laws of some countries without so much as a by-your-leave. Freedom of information is fine, but even in this age of freedom we cannot allow morals to be completely undermined in order to enrich the merchants of porn and filth. When all is said and done, we still have to admit that the United Nations is the only truly multinational Organization where the voices of small nations can be heard. We support the United Nations, but we must correct the tendency to make it an instrument of the rich and the powerful. The United Nations must stand on the side of the collective needs of people and nations in order to serve all mankind. I should like, on behalf of the Government of Japan, to begin my statement at the General Assembly by extending my felicitations on the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. I also wish to offer my sincere congratulations to Your Excellency, Professor Freitas do Amaral, on your assumption of the presidency of this commemorative session of the General Assembly. Half a century has passed since the United Nations was founded. When we recall that its predecessor, the League of Nations, endured for just a little over 20 years, we should consider the very longevity of this Organization a blessing. But that is not the end of the story. As we look ahead to the future, the mission of the United Nations will become increasingly important. I am thus particularly moved to have been given the honour and privilege of representing the Government of Japan at this historic and significant session of the General Assembly. Although during the past 50 years confrontation between the super-Powers at times paralysed the peace- keeping functions of the United Nations, the structure of the international community has recently undergone tremendous change. Within this span of time, the world population has more than doubled, and this explosive increase has resulted in serious problems on a global scale. Moreover, with the rapid proliferation of regional conflicts in the years since the end of the cold war, there are an estimated 30 million refugees in the world today. And, as Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali pointed out in his recent statement in Geneva, as we approach the end of the twentieth century, 1.3 billion people are living in absolute poverty and more than 1.5 billion do not receive even the most basic health care. Needless to say, there remain the increasingly grave problems of environmental degradation, including global warming, deforestation and marine pollution. The United Nations is the only universal international organization that exists to cope with these grave problems to ensure that the international community enjoys peace and prosperity. Thus it is necessary at this time for the United Nations genuinely to strengthen its functions and to take concrete action for reforms in the financial, economic and social, and political fields. Cooperation with the United Nations has always been an important pillar of Japan’s foreign policy. I should like at the outset to state that Japan is resolved hereafter to strengthen further such cooperation and to contribute actively to the strengthening of the Organization’s functions. The first point I wish to make with regard to the crucially important international challenges in this new post-cold-war era is that the development of developing countries should be pursued from a new perspective. The achievement of greater economic self-reliance by developing countries through development is conducive to the growth of the global economy as a whole and will, in turn, help stabilize the new international order. Development issues have until now tended to become politicized in the context of East-West confrontation and have not been addressed from the essential perspective of development. Today, however, an environment is emerging in which the problems of the economic and social development of developing countries can be squarely addressed from a perspective of cooperation and partnership. On this occasion, I should like to reaffirm the need to formulate a more comprehensive development strategy for achieving peace and prosperity throughout the international community. In addressing development issues, I believe that official development assistance will continue to play an important role. Japan, recalling the assistance it received from other countries in the past, and now as the world’s largest aid donor, will continue its efforts to expand its official development assistance. On the other hand, however, the development strategy that we are to pursue hereafter cannot be concerned simply with development assistance. For example, when one considers the extraordinary economic performance of the East Asia region, one cannot but clearly recognize the importance of fostering the market mechanism and of promoting the liberalization of trade and investment. I should also like to emphasize once again the need to maintain and strengthen the multilateral open-trading system, at the centre of which is the World Trade Organization, established earlier this year. In this connection, I wish to refer to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) as a good example of open regional cooperation that rejects exclusive regionalism. As the presiding nation at this year’s APEC conference, to be held in Osaka in November, Japan intends to contribute actively to the further promotion of such regional cooperation under APEC. The concept of social development is increasingly important in ensuring that economic development and growth will lead to the enhancement of individual welfare and the security and prosperity of society as a whole through the promotion of education and training, respect for human rights and the advancement of the status of women. Japan is working to enhance its international cooperation in all of these areas. It attaches particular importance to the role of women in development and thus, at the recent Fourth World Conference on Women, in Beijing, it announced a new policy to expand its development assistance in the three priority areas of raising the educational standards, improving the health and promoting the economic and social participation of women. In the formulation of the new development strategy which I proposed earlier, a comprehensive approach is needed. Such an approach would include not only official development assistance, but a variety of policy measures in such areas as trade, investment, macroeconomic policies, technology transfer and building social infrastructure. In addition, it is also important to take a differentiated approach which applies the best policy mix according to the respective country’s stage of development. Based on this fundamental philosophy, I should like to present the following three concrete guidelines. First, realistic development targets which clearly indicate the anticipated results of development should be established, and developing countries and donor countries should work together to achieve those targets. I should like, for example, to propose that the United Nations, with the cooperation of such bodies as the United Nations University, undertake a study to establish development targets. These targets would combine indices measuring the economic growth of a developing country by, for example, an increase of its gross national product to a fixed level within a certain time-frame, with indices showing the degree of social development according to, among other things, literacy and infant mortality rates. Secondly, it is important to promote participatory development that involves, in addition to central Governments, new development actors such as non-governmental organizations and local governments. Thirdly, South-South cooperation should be further promoted. I would propose that necessary financial measures be considered, including the establishment of an effective mechanism for this purpose within the United Nations Development Programme. 2 While there is a diminished likelihood of a large-scale confrontation or conflict between nations today, as compared with the cold-war era, regional conflicts which stem from religious or ethnic rivalries are of increasingly serious concern. Because poverty is in many cases a cause of these conflicts, it is essential that development issues be urgently addressed. At the same time, it is also the case that a conflict itself poses a major obstacle to the achievement of development, resulting in a vicious circle. The efforts of the countries concerned, as well as those of other countries in the region, are, of course, basic to the settlement of regional conflicts. But, in addition, the international community too must seriously address itself to the resolution of conflicts, and for this purpose the functions of the United Nations should be strengthened. Peace-keeping operations, building upon the efforts of the parties concerned, are an effective means of helping to settle disputes. Their deployment can also play an important role in preventing conflicts. It is thus essential that the international community continue to support such operations and work for their further reform. Japan actively cooperates with United Nations peace-keeping operations and intends to participate in the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force in the Golan Heights. Moreover, responding to the rapidly expanding refugee problems resulting from these numerous conflicts, Japan continues to support the activities of such organs as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. It is also important that the United Nations, as well as its Member States, place greater emphasis on conflict prevention. Japan supports the strengthening of United Nations efforts in the area of preventive diplomacy, including the dispatch of fact-finding missions and the offer of political support through its good offices or mediation efforts. It is for the purpose of promoting conflict prevention and settlement that Japan, with the United Nations and the United Nations University, is co-sponsoring the High-Level Symposium on Peace and Development: Problems of Conflict in Africa, which will be convened next month. Of all the regional disputes being witnessed in the world today, particular reference should be made to the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. Peace will not be achieved in that conflict through the use of force by the parties concerned; it must be sought through negotiation. And now there is a window of opportunity for the parties to engage in peace talks. It is essential that that opportunity not be lost but that all concerned spare no effort to achieve peace. Japan continues to support the efforts towards peace being made by the countries concerned as well as the activities of the United Nations. It is also extending appropriate cooperation, including humanitarian assistance. Once the conflict is brought to an end and peace is restored, Japan intends to cooperate in the rehabilitation of the region in conjunction with other concerned countries and relevant international organizations. I turn now to the situation in the Middle East. Japan has been actively contributing to efforts towards a peaceful settlement. Japan welcomes the agreement reached on 24 September in the negotiations on the expansion of Palestinian interim self-rule and believes it will be a major step forward in the peace process. Promoting disarmament and strengthening the regime for the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are essential to the maintenance of international peace and stability. As countries curtail excessive military spending through arms-reduction efforts, the resources thus saved can be allocated to development objectives. Conversely, progress in economic development must not lead to arms build-ups, and for this reason too it is necessary to redouble disarmament efforts. In this year that marks the fiftieth anniversary of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan welcomed the decision to extend indefinitely the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which is an important contribution to strengthening the basis of the non-proliferation regime and represents significant progress towards the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons. As an important step towards nuclear disarmament, renewed efforts should be made to complete negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty by next spring and to sign it by the autumn of 1996, at the latest. Japan, with firm political will and together with other countries, will do its utmost to attain this crucially important goal. As for the scope of the treaty’s provisions against nuclear testing, we deeply appreciate the announcements made by France, the United States and the United Kingdom indicating their support for a total ban on all nuclear testing and we hope that the other nuclear-weapon States will likewise adopt that position without delay. I should like to reiterate here the proposal which I made in my address to this body last year that, once the treaty is concluded, the signing ceremony be held in Japan. 3 I cannot but deeply deplore the nuclear tests conducted by certain countries immediately after the indefinite extension of the NPT was approved unanimously by the States Parties to the Treaty and just as the international community has begun to make further progress towards a nuclear-free world. I should like on this occasion to reaffirm that the nuclear-weapon States, which are accorded a special status under the NPT, have an obligation to respond to the trust shown in them by non-nuclear-weapon States by engaging in genuine nuclear-disarmament efforts. Japan has consistently called for the cessation of nuclear testing and at this session of the General Assembly intends to sponsor a draft resolution calling for the cessation of nuclear testing. I hope that it receives the support and cooperation of all Member States. In addition, I would appeal to all States to work vigorously for the reduction and control of conventional weapons. The United Nations Register of Conventional Arms, the purpose of which is to enhance the transparency of arms transfers, has proved a great success, recording more than 90 per cent of the transfers of conventional weapons that have taken place throughout the world. I strongly encourage many more States to participate in the Register. The prompt establishment of an international mechanism for controlling the export of conventional weapons is also an important issue. The problem of uncleared land-mines is not only a humanitarian issue but one that poses a serious obstacle to economic rehabilitation. International cooperation and the development of technology for clearing these mines are urgently required. As we look to the future, it is equally important to consider and strengthen the framework of international regulations with respect to the use, production, transfer and so on of anti-personnel land- mines. Another serious problem facing the international community is that of the proliferation of small arms. It is Japan’s intention to submit to the General Assembly at this session a draft resolution on the establishment, under the Secretary-General, of a panel of experts to address this issue. As I stated at the beginning of my remarks, we should seize the historic opportunity presented by the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations to realize concrete reforms aimed at strengthening the functions of the Organization, the importance of which continues to grow. I should like on this occasion to present my views concerning reforms to be undertaken in three areas, namely, financial reform, reforms in the economic and social fields and reform of the Security Council. Unless the efficiency of its bodies is enhanced and its financial base is made sound and strong, a genuine strengthening of the functions of the United Nations will not be achieved. At present the unpaid contributions of Member States to the United Nations amount to well over US$ 3 billion. It is imperative that we as Member States recognize this situation as an impending crisis and face up to it. I call upon all Member States to make every effort to pay in full and as soon as possible their assessed contributions that are in arrears. At the same time I should like to stress the need for a comprehensive review of the method by which the financial burden is shared among Member States, in a manner that does not place excessive burdens on any of them. As the second-largest contributor to the United Nations, Japan, despite its severe financial situation, has assumed considerable responsible for United Nations financing. On this occasion I wish to emphasize that serious discussion of the fundamental reform of United Nations financing and the realization of a fair and equitable system of burden-sharing are key to the strengthening of the functions of the United Nations. Now, with the situation more conducive to addressing development issues from a new perspective, it is imperative that we tackle global issues more effectively, particularly those relating to the environment, but also human rights, refugees, population, AIDS and narcotics. In so doing we must work with greater earnestness to strengthen the United Nations system in economic and social fields. Specifically, it is necessary to improve the efficiency and review the mandates of the various organizations and agencies active in these fields and to promote more effective coordination between them, including international financial institutions. From this point of view, Japan attaches great importance to the discussion on “An Agenda for Development”, and by contributing actively to that discussion it is endeavouring to promote reform in economic and social fields. In particular, there is an urgent need to revitalize the functions of the Economic and Social Council, including the further utilization of its various functional committees. The reform of the Security Council is of the utmost importance in strengthening the United Nations in the political field. The primary objective of Security Council 4 reform is to strengthen its function by enhancing its legitimacy and effectiveness. Towards this end, Japan believes it is necessary to expand the Security Council by adding to its permanent membership countries in a position to assume global responsibilities, and also to increase by an appropriate number the non-permanent membership. As I stated here last year, Japan, with the endorsement of many countries, is prepared to discharge its responsibilities as a permanent member of the Security Council, in accordance with its basic philosophy regarding international contributions, including the non-resort to the use of force prohibited by its Constitution. On this point, I should like to take this opportunity once again to express my appreciation to the many countries that have indicated their support for Japan’s permanent membership on the Security Council. Building on the results of the discussions conducted in the Working Group over the past two years, particularly on the substantive progress made during the last session of the General Assembly, and also taking advantage of the momentum provided by the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, I would urge all Member States to redouble their efforts to reach an agreement on a broad framework for reform by the end of the current session, in September 1996. This year, which marks the fiftieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War, Japan has looked squarely at its past history and has renewed its commitment to peace. Japan is among the countries that have benefited most from the peace and stability of the international community over the past 50 years. I earnestly hope that other countries throughout the world will likewise enjoy the blessings that have accrued to Japan as a result of international peace and prosperity. I should like to conclude my statement today by reaffirming Japan’s determination to contribute to the best of its ability to the building of a stronger United Nations for the future, as well as to establishing a new international order for peace and prosperity based upon the principles of freedom and democracy. I am pleased to begin my statement by extending to you sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the present session of the General Assembly. I am confident that your high competence and profound experience will contribute effectively to the success of the work of the present historic session. This session coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization. There is no doubt that such an important occasion calls for examining the course the Organization has taken in order to draw the best object-lessons that would enable the international community to proceed to the building of a better future in which peace and stability would prevail on the basis of justice, the balance of interests of all peoples and genuine international cooperation that would be free from selfishness and hegemony; a future which would open the doors towards the solution of economic, social, cultural and humanitarian problems that continue to cause suffering to the overwhelming majority of States, especially in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Members of the international community welcomed the end of the cold war. They view it as the harbinger of a new age. However, many representatives of many Member States did point out the dangers of imbalance in international relations. They warned that the supremacy of one super-Power would make international life hostage to that Power and, thereby, lead to the imposition of its views, interests and policies on the rest of the world. The correcting of this imbalance in the international situation requires a great deal of care in upholding equality between States, restructuring the United Nations in line with well- balanced formulas, revitalizing the work of its institutions in a manner that would ensure balance and genuine participation in responsibility, prevent hegemony by one or certain parties over the international community and over the United Nations with its institutions. Although these objectives have not been achieved so far, to work towards their achievement and to develop an understanding of what they involved continue to be urgent needs of the highest priority. We believe that the imposition of a unipolar standpoint on the work of the United Nations totally contradicts the purposes and principles of the Charter. The persistence of such attempts would lead only to more anxiety and deterioration in international relations. This conviction stems from Iraq’s actual experience over the past five years. It is an experience that relates to the implementation of the resolutions of the Security Council on the so-called Gulf Crisis, and especially the implementation of resolution 687 (1991). That resolution imposed upon Iraq a number of obligations, as a basis for a comprehensive settlement of the situation. A few days after the adoption of the resolution, Iraq informed the Security Council of its readiness to comply with the provisions of the resolution despite the harsh nature of the obligations imposed thereby. Since that date, Iraq has seriously taken upon itself the implementation of the resolution in order to normalize the situation at the regional and international levels. In fact, a great many steps have taken place in implementing the resolution. Our people hope that what has been achieved will be the subject of an objective and fair evaluation by the Security Council that would lead to the lifting of the embargo imposed upon Iraq for more than five years now. Allow me to review very briefly the steps taken by Iraq in the context of implementing the obligations imposed by the Security Council in resolution 687 (1991). On 10 November 1994, Iraq officially recognized the sovereignty, the territorial integrity and the political independence of the State of Kuwait, and the international boundary demarcated by the United Nations Iraq-Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission. This was done in implementation of resolutions 687 (1991) and 833 (1993). Iraq has cooperated also with the representatives of the United Nations in returning Kuwaiti property on the basis of the lists presented through the United Nations coordinator. In this connection, Iraq affirmed that it will return any item of property that would be found when it is established that it belongs to Kuwait. As regards the prisoners of war and the missing persons, Iraq, in implementation of Security Council 8 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting resolutions 686 (1991) and 687(1991), released all prisoners of war and detainees who were in Iraq and repatriated them in cooperation with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). As for investigating the fate of missing persons, we are cooperating fully within the framework of the joint work carried out under the auspices of the ICRC by the Tripartite Commission and its Technical Subcommittee on Military and Civilian Missing Prisoners of War and Mortal Remains. Since the middle of 1994, when we found the appropriate modality for effective technical work in dealing with this humanitarian problem, we have sought within the said framework to provide answers to the questions raised in the individual inquiry files presented to us on the basis of the available information. Moreover, Iraq has been receptive to all the initiatives of States and personalities to find a quick solution to this humanitarian problem in accordance with the Geneva Conventions. With regard to the subject of compensation, Iraq accepted the principle of responsibility in accordance with international law to compensate direct damage resulting from the events in Kuwait as stated in resolution 687 (1991). Iraq has cooperated also with the United Nations Iraq- Kuwait Observation Mission (UNIKOM) in carrying out its tasks and has extended every possible assistance to the Mission with the aim of enabling it to perform its duties. Iraq has affirmed its adherence to the 1925 Geneva Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases and Bacteriological Methods of warfare, and deposited the instruments of ratification of the 1972 Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction, in implementation of paragraph 7 of resolution 687 (1991). As for the implementation by Iraq of section (C) of resolution 687 (1991), that is the provisions relating to proscribed weapons, our relationship with the Special Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) witnessed, in the middle of 1993, a turning point in the field of positive and constructive cooperation in order to finalize the implementation of the said section. On 26 November 1993, we presented the official response in regard to compliance with resolution 715 (1991) relating to monitoring in the field of weapons. In the process of work with the Special Commission and the IAEA, we have not hesitated to offer all possible assistance to facilitate the work, whether by presenting information, available documents, details relating to past programmes, the destruction of prohibited weapons, and the setting up of an effective monitoring system. We have been able to achieve substantive progress in this area, as acknowledged by the Special Commission in its report to the Security Council on 19 June 1995, and have taken the final steps to complete the desired work. These facts are well established in the relationship between Iraq and the Special Commission and the IAEA. The substantive nature of these facts cannot be distorted by the campaign waged against Iraq by well-known quarters because of special objectives of their own which are totally alien to the objectives of resolution 687 (1991). Despite all the propaganda, Iraq no longer has any proscribed weapons, equipment, devices or materials, and this is the essence of resolution 687 (1991). We affirm our determination to continue our cooperation with the Special Commission and the IAEA to close the weapons file in accordance with the relevant resolutions and have the embargo against Iraq lifted. I should like to express here our deep regret regarding the a priori ill-intentioned exaggerations which cast a terrifying image of past Iraqi weapons programmes, and the deliberate distortion of the fact that these programmes were something of the past and that they no longer exist. Raising fears in such a contrived fashion is not an objective position at all. It is an attitude prompted by political objectives which are far removed from the concern over security and stability in the region and the provisions of resolution 687 (1991). Iraq has taken all these steps even while it has continued to suffer the hardship caused by a total embargo, the most extended ever imposed by the Security Council in all its history. It is an embargo that embraces everything and every aspect of life with the exception of food and medicine. However, the freezing of Iraq’s assets with foreign banks has prevented Iraq from using any of those assets to purchase its needs of medicines and foodstuffs and, thereby, has made the exception relating to food and medicine devoid of any practical content. The situation in Iraq has been aggravated by the actual practice obtaining in the work of the Security Council Committee established by resolution 661 (1990), which is in charge of the application of sanctions against Iraq. Work in the Committee proceeds along highly 9 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting bureaucratic lines and follows the rule of unanimity. This has provided certain States with an easy way to object and thereby to reject a large number of export requests to Iraq to meet civilian humanitarian needs, from pencils and educational materials to automobile tyres and other simple civilian provisions. All these matters are documented in the records of the 661 Committee. The deliberate insistence on prolonging the embargo against Iraq is not linked to Iraq’s implementation of its obligations. It is a systematic plan to inflict severe damage upon Iraq and to deliberately destroy its infrastructure and put paid to its developmental capabilities. This is a fact that is known to all. The reports of the competent United Nations Agencies operating in Iraq and of non-governmental organizations concerned with relief warned against the deterioration of the situation as a result of the shortage of food and medicine, which threatens the lives of millions of Iraqis, including thousands of children, women and old people. In this connection, I should like to refer to the last alert of the World Food Programme, issued on 26 September 1995. The report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization, and his “Supplement to An Agenda for Peace”, refer clearly to the problem of sanctions. We should like in turn to draw the attention of Member States to the fact that the application of sanctions against Iraq, with such cruelty and bureaucratic complexity, calls for questioning and scrutiny, in the interests of objectivity. We are not sure that all the representatives in the General Assembly know that the Security Council reviews the sanctions regime against Iraq every 60 days, and that 27 reviews have been conducted to date without any easing of the sanctions. The situation remains the same as it has been since 3 April 1991, as if nothing had been achieved. Is this a healthy situation? The tragic consequences of the embargo have not been limited to the food and health sectors in Iraq. The sections of agriculture, education and environment also have sustained grave damage, due to the shortages of materials and the basic requirements needed for work in such sectors, even at the minimum level required to satisfy the basic needs of the civilian population. The aggravation of this extremely difficult situation has not prevented us from continuing to implement our obligations under the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. It is worth noting that, as is known to all, while we were being called upon to implement our obligations, and while we were deploying persistent efforts to do just that, we have not received in return any objective and equitable position that would have reduced sanctions commensurately with the progress achieved by Iraq in implementing the resolutions, or that would have given encouragement and hope and given confidence that the situation would be normalized eventually, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. The reality has been the very opposite. From the very beginning and to date, we have been the target of many threats; doubts have been raised about our intentions; and we have been, twice, the target of armed aggression. There has been considerable deceit with regard to objectives. Pressure has been brought to bear on any party that even thought of treating us fairly, even if such fairness was not intended as a gesture towards Iraq but as a means of safeguarding the credibility of the Charter system and of the resolutions of the Security Council. We have been accused of intermittent and selective cooperation and of a lack of peaceful intentions and lack of credibility, to such an extent that the levelling of accusations by certain parties has come to resemble a chronic pathological alignment. Such accusations have been accompanied by the continued pursuance on the practical level of policies aimed at interfering in the internal affairs of Iraq in order to destabilize it; to undermine its security, stability, the freedom of its people and its sovereignty; and to try and change its political system. A super-Power has imposed upon my country two no-fly zones, in the north and the south, without any legal justification or authorization from the Security Council. It has also exercised every means of pressure and deception to perpetuate the harsh conditions caused by the embargo against Iraq, while, at the same time, it conspires, quite openly, to change the regime. Without any hesitation, its officials declare that such is its intention. While all this takes place, it is we who are asked to prove our peaceful intentions and credibility. It is no secret that the Power that leads the onslaught I have spoken of against Iraq is the United States of America. All the facts on the ground make it clear that it is the United States of America and no one else that should be asked to demonstrate its credibility, to prove that its intentions are peaceful, and to desist from its continuing acts of provocation, aggression and interference in the internal affairs of Iraq and from fomenting tension in the Gulf region under the pretext of an illusory threat. 10 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting President Saddam Hussein noted that the American administration’s accusation that Iraq lacks credibility in its relationship with the Special Commission is a false one, and that it is the United States that does not have credibility in dealing with States and international organizations. Where is the credibility in the position of the United States when it declares its determination not to lift the sanctions against Iraq even if Iraq implements Security Council resolution 687 (1991), of which the United States was the chief author? Again, where is the credibility in the position of the United States when the American administration masses its naval and military forces in the Gulf and in the Mediterranean under the false pretext that Iraq is planning to attack Jordan, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia? I do not wish to enter into polemics with the representatives of the United States in the General Assembly. But I find it necessary, with regard to the American allegations about credibility, to raise certain points of principle which call for serious thought and contemplation. Before I do that, I should like to ask this question: if it is important that the implementation of the resolutions of the Security Council should be founded on credibility, then how can allegations about the credibility of Iraq be accepted at a time when the State which repeats those allegations puts itself above the Security Council and above the Charter and gives itself the right to interpret United Nations resolutions and to arbitrarily draw conclusions from such interpretations that agree with its own selfish interests which are far removed from any basis to be found in the provisions of the resolutions themselves? While on the subject of credibility, where are the efforts of the Security Council, and the United States in particular, with regard to the implementation of paragraph 14 of Security Council resolution 687 (1991), which aims at declaring the Middle East as a zone free from weapons of mass destruction? This is an objective that has to be a fundamental cornerstone of the edifice of peace, security and stability in the region if such an edifice is to be built on sturdy, well-balanced and equitable foundations. It is an objective that acquires great importance from the standpoint of the oft-mentioned credibility, since it is a known fact that Israel possesses those weapons. Why does the United States keep completely silent about paragraph 14, and why has the Security Council not taken any action towards the implementation of that part of its resolution? Does such a blatant double standard have anything to do with credibility? Is it objective or even fair to imagine that the obligations stipulated in Security Council resolutions could be implemented in a natural fashion in the context of such circumstances, atmospherics, and hostile policies directed against Iraq? Iraq is well aware of the fact that it is not in its interest to conceal any information relating to past weapons programmes, and that its interest lies in working to lift as soon as possible the sanctions that are imposed on it. Indeed, Iraq is acting in full conformity with this objective. In this connection, we call upon member States of the Security Council not to jump to any conclusions on the basis of any unjust accusations levelled at Iraq, because the right thing to do would be to wait for the outcome of the work of the Special Commission, which is responsible for evaluating the implementation by Iraq of the Council’s resolutions concerning the proscribed weapons. We do not call for anything more than the legally sound application of Security Council resolutions in consonance with the purposes and principles of the Charter, and not in line with the whims and aims of unilateral policies of a certain State, which are founded on the logic of naked power, opportunism, double standards and the imposition of hegemony. We believe that there is a collective duty to work jointly with firmness in order to put things in the right perspective in order to ensure the sound application of the provisions of the Charter. The first step in this direction requires us to ponder the philosophy of the sanctions as created by the Charter. Is the sanctions regime a means towards an end, or is it an end in itself? What is the nature of the said regime? Is it punitive, or is it a means whereby the purposes of the Charter should be achieved without reference to the individual policies of individual Member States? It is well known to all that the sanctions regime created by the Charter is nothing more than a means aimed at achieving certain results which would ultimately lead to the realization of the purposes and principles of the United Nations as elaborated in Articles 1 and 2 of the Charter, and that the means should cease to be applied once the end has been achieved. The competence of the Security Council to impose sanctions is an exceptional means that is used when it is established, objectively, that all other means of peaceful settlement of disputes have failed. Such a means should not be, however, a tool in the hands of a super-Power or of a group of major Powers to achieve foreign policy 11 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting goals at the expense of the common interest of Member States. It is now patently clear that the imposition of sanctions on Iraq and the maintenance of the embargo against it, in the well-known fashion, cannot be justified on the substantive basis of the provisions of the Charter, because it has become, in actual fact, an extension of the unilateral policy of a super-Power that has made sanctions an end in themselves and a vindictive means that serves its own interests in the region. In essence, the grounds for the imposition of sanctions on Iraq no longer exist and, thus, the sanctions should be lifted. But a well-known State obstructs the process. We should like to say to the United States that the solution lies in dialogue, which provides a mechanism for the achievement of interests on a balanced and equitable basis. This is what Iraq has called for and continues to call for. The policy of hegemony and of creating crises cannot but fail, because it is illegitimate and because the international community rejects it. While this continues to be our position of principle, we unfortunately find that the United States statesmen ignore the realities of the region and the needs and aspirations of its peoples, who yearn to live in stability, peace and fruitful cooperation amongst themselves and with the world as a whole. At a time when we witness the tensions and internal conflicts that prevail in the states of the region, and the feelings of bitterness amongst their peoples as a result of the current short-sighted policies, which recall to mind the policies of the old imperialist Powers, we in Iraq should like, from this rostrum, to call for the promotion of relations of dialogue, understanding and good neighbourliness amongst the States of the region, on the basis of mutual respect, in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Iraq is an ancient country with a very long history that goes back 7,000 years. The Iraqi people, who have contributed greatly to human civilization, will remain in control of their affairs, independent in their choices and capable of overcoming crises. We hope that Member States, especially the permanent members of the Security Council, will make every effort to interpret and apply the provisions of the resolutions of the Security Council in accordance with their normal legal meaning and not on the basis of whims and the political interests of this or that State. Any course of action that deviates from this principled rule would lead only to loss of credibility and utterly undermine the principle of good faith in the determination of international obligations. The United Nations was established in order to achieve the common goals of preserving peace, security and stability in the world. The provisions of the Organization’s Charter, in letter and in spirit, are founded on the balancing of rights and duties and aim at protecting the common interests of the international community. Therefore policies that are based on the logic of naked power and unilateral action outside the concepts of the Charter, and that aim at achieving individual objectives, are bound to contradict the very raison d’être of the Organization and to contravene the letter and spirit of its Charter. Such policies would only lead to the marginalization of the Organization’s role in international affairs. It behoves us as we are about to celebrate half a century of the existence of the Organization to rededicate ourselves to honouring our undertakings as enshrined in the Charter. In another two weeks we will be commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of this Organization. We shall do so with much ceremony. I would hope, however, that we will go beyond the ceremonial to take the opportunity which the occasion provides us to reflect further on the role of the Organization and on the ways and means by which its performance can be enhanced to serve better the needs of its Members in the coming twenty-first century. We offer Mr. Freitas do Amaral our warmest congratulations on his election. We are confident that, with his demonstrated ability and skills, he will advance us even further in our task of reforming and restructuring 4 the Organization so that it may successfully confront the challenges which the post-cold-war era has brought. He may be sure that we will fully cooperate with him to make the deliberations of the fiftieth session of this Assembly as constructive as possible. My Government is grateful to the outgoing President of the Assembly, Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for the initiatives which he took during his term of office to improve the functioning of the institution at this critical time of its existence. We would also wish to say a special word of appreciation to the distinguished Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and his staff for their continuing devotion to the servicing of our many requirements. Their support for our efforts will undoubtedly guarantee our ultimate success. It is vitally important that the dynamism and effectiveness of the United Nations be increased if it is adequately to discharge its many tasks. Since the Organization was founded almost five decades ago, the world has changed considerably and international problems have become much more complex. The United Nations today bears a heavier load of responsibility than ever before. Ironically, at the same time, it is saddled with a deepening financial crisis which makes its effectiveness and its very future highly uncertain. This situation cannot continue without adverse consequences for the world community. The expanding nature of many peace-keeping operations not only places an added financial strain on the finances of the United Nations, but is especially burdensome for small developing countries, such as mine, which are finding it increasingly difficult to fulfil our financial obligations to the Organization. Support for these operations represents a continuing drain on our limited resources and hampers our own efforts at development. Yet as conflicts multiply the United Nations will be called upon to mount more operations to keep the peace. Given the urgency of these demands, we have no choice but to try and meet them. The time has therefore come for us to put the financing of these undertakings on a more reliable footing. We urge all States, especially the major defaulting countries, to honour fully their obligations to the Organization. It must be a matter of growing concern to the international community that the peace and prosperity expected in the aftermath of the cold war have not materialized. The world continues to face some of the worst threats to international stability. Violent conflicts arising from resurgent nationalisms and religious intolerance between and within States have proliferated. The unresolved situations in Afghanistan, Rwanda, parts of the former Soviet Union and the former Yugoslavia have caused severe loss of life and destruction to property and have given rise to humanitarian crises of immense proportions. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina remains uncertain. The suffering of the Bosnian people, the total disregard for the safe havens and the constant threat to the international peace-keeping force demands that the international community take effective measures to end this senseless conflict. We welcome the prospects of a peaceful settlement which have resulted from the latest diplomatic initiative. With the international Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia now established, we hope that those responsible for the atrocities committed against the Bosnian people will be brought to trial. We are equally concerned with the situation in Cyprus which, despite the efforts of the Secretary- General, appears to be worsening. There are reports of escalating tensions. We urge both sides to the dispute to respond urgently to his call for a negotiated solution which would preserve the island’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Although the Middle East continues to be volatile, we have reason today to believe that a comprehensive peace can be a reality in the not-too-distant future. The accords already signed between Israel and the Palestinians on the one hand and Israel and Jordan on the other show a willingness to reach a just and lasting solution. These achievements should serve as a catalyst for new initiatives. Many issues such as the refugee problem, security arrangements and borders, fundamental to the Palestine question, remain to be settled. The recent high- level negotiations between the Prime Minister of Israel and the President of Palestine must be considered a positive development. We hope that all remaining difficulties can be resolved in good faith by both sides with the help of this Organization and the international community. In our own region we are pleased to see that peace and stability have been restored to a large degree in Haiti. Much has been accomplished since the return of the democratically elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in 5 October 1994. We note in particular the practical steps taken by the Government of Haiti to organize free and fair legislative elections, as called for in Security Council resolution 940 (1994). The first of these elections has shown that more has to be done in terms of establishing an effective electoral machinery. The role of the International Civilian Mission and the United Nations Mission in Haiti (UNMIH) in assisting the Haitian authorities to reinforce democracy remains crucial. The sustained commitment of the international community is indispensable to the prospects for long-term progress in Haiti. My Government is ready to provide whatever assistance it can to achieve this goal. Today more than ever, the people of the world are making the United Nations the repository of their hopes. The Organization must therefore do its utmost to satisfy these expanded expectations. It must undertake whatever institutional reforms are necessary for adapting itself to the new international context. The urgency of our agenda makes it imperative for us to conclude as early as possible the work under way in the many Working Groups to secure the rationalization of our agenda, as well as the reform of the major organs of the United Nations. These reforms, which we believe to be essential and urgent, must be carried out with transparency and on a consensual basis. They must be realistic and be aimed at increasing efficiency. Above all, they must be in full accordance with the democratic purposes and principles of the Charter. In so far as the reform of the Security Council is concerned, my Government supports an appropriate increase in membership. Such an increase should take account of the size of the current membership of the Organization and be reflective of the principle of equitable geographical representation. The discussions in the Working Group that was set up in accordance with resolution 48/26 have produced several interesting proposals for reform. These should now be more closely examined and evaluated to determine their feasibility. It is possible, we believe, to find an arrangement that would respond satisfactorily to the need for enhancing the Council’s capacity to preserve international peace and security in the post-cold-war era. A major responsibility of any reformed Council should be to give further impetus to the disarmament process. The decision taken by the 1995 Review and Extension Conference on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to extend the agreement indefinitely reflects the commitment of all parties involved to work towards the elimination of nuclear weapons. The extension of the Treaty, however, is not an end in itself. It must be followed by further steps towards complete nuclear disarmament, the dissemination of nuclear know- how for peaceful purposes, adequate security assurances to non-nuclear-weapon States and the establishment of nuclear-weapon free zones. Especially important is the need to conclude a comprehensive test-ban treaty in order to preclude nuclear-weapon States from undertaking further hazardous experiments. We urge the Conference on Disarmament to proceed as expeditiously as possible to the elaboration of a universal and effective treaty within a fixed time frame. The nuclear threat, as well as other hazards to which we are exposed, must make us all actually aware of our obligation to protect our fragile environment. Since the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, we have made some progress in a number of areas with regard to the implementation of Agenda 21. We have seen the coming into force of the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Convention on Climate Change and the Convention to Combat Desertification, as well as the holding in Barbados of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and the adoption of the Barbados Programme of Action. Much more, however, remains to be done if we are adequately to honour the commitments made in Rio. The terrible destruction inflicted recently by powerful hurricanes on several sister States in the Caribbean Community shows how vulnerable small States are to environmental disasters. Only two months ago my own country suffered major ecological damage as a result of severe leakages from the tailings pond dam at the Omai Gold Mines in the Essequibo region, causing some 1.2 million cubic metres of cyanide slurry to be discharged into the environment. Aquatic life in the river was endangered, while the inhabitants of nearby villages were exposed to serious health hazards. Fortunately, the Government of Guyana was able, with the assistance of friendly Governments and agencies of the United Nations system, to contain the danger. These disasters, both natural and man-made, point to the need for urgent international action to protect small countries such as ours. Yet, three years after the Rio Conference, the commitments to provide financial resources to implement Agenda 21 remain largely on paper. The target of 0.7 per cent of official development assistance is still to be realized. New resources have simply not been available to undertake some of the programmes specified in the Agenda. Nor have we witnessed any significant transfer 6 of suitable technology to developing countries. While the developing countries are ready to discharge their obligations, developed countries balk at making their contribution. The global partnership, which was so highly advocated and praised at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, is yet to be formed. We are nevertheless encouraged by the adoption last August of the Draft Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. We hope that this Agreement, which will be opened for signature on 4 December 1995, will ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of the living resources of the high seas identified in Agenda 21. This Agreement and the larger United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which came into force in November 1994, are important to the sustainable development of the fishing industry in small States such as ours. We urge their full observance and implementation. Overall economic development remains the single most important challenge facing Member States and, consequently, the United Nations. At various conferences, including the World Summit for Social Development, which was held in Copenhagen, Denmark, last March, we have repeatedly expressed our political will to address our diverse economic and social problems. We came away from Copenhagen ready to act, but we remain uncertain as to the way forward. Now that the Beijing Conference on women is behind us, the international community needs to summon even greater determination if it is to translate into action the bold decisions we have taken in this series of important summit meetings. These decisions should now be consolidated, and specific machinery set up for their implementation. It would indeed be a great pity if the painfully negotiated results of these high-level deliberations were left to evaporate. The great divide between rich and poor, both among and within nations, must be considered a threat to world peace. The plight of developing countries, particularly the least-developed countries, compels urgent action. The problems of development, or rather of underdevelopment, can no longer be dealt with adequately on an ad hoc and piecemeal basis or through questionable structural- adjustment measures. What is required is fundamental reform of the international economic system, which continues to marginalize developing countries into a position of perpetual dependence. It is necessary to define new strategies and to agree on new modalities to reverse the present inequities in international economic relations. The developing countries are willing to do their part in providing an environment favourable to growth. However, they urgently need significant debt relief, greater financial investment flows, the transfer of appropriate technology, the elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers and just remuneration for commodities and raw materials. These are not new prescriptions; they are generally known to be essential for development. Thus far, however, developed countries have evinced notable reluctance to follow them, preferring instead to dispense small amounts of bilateral aid. Most of them have now further reduced this limited assistance. The root problems therefore remain unresolved. The signing, in Marrakesh in 1994, of the Uruguay Round agreements has provided some hope that the playing-field for international trade will be levelled to induce the participation of developing countries. The recently created World Trade Organization, if properly oriented, may be able to provide a rule-based system that could encourage such participation. There is much to be said for the introduction of predictability into international economic relations, and we should therefore work to ensure that it is provided in whatever agreements we reach. The “Agenda for Development”, which we are in the process of elaborating, must embody the rights and obligations accepted by the parties. In this context, Guyana attaches great importance to the conclusion of work on the Agenda. We view the Agenda as an overarching framework for international cooperation for development. We are therefore concerned that, while we work to establish the framework, we should also secure the necessary commitment of resources for effective implementation. In this regard, we believe that South-South cooperation should be considered as an integral and important element of international cooperation for development. International support for greater South-South cooperation cannot but enhance the prospects for world development, thereby increasing the potentialities of interdependence and partnership. Economic growth cannot be sustained for long unless each individual citizen and each individual community has a stake in that growth and is empowered to take an active part in the development process. Moreover, economic growth would be meaningless if it were not equitably distributed. A society cannot find fulfilment in growth. Indeed, the development process 7 itself is severely hampered if a society does not take adequate care of its vulnerable groups: women, children, ethnic minorities, the handicapped and the homeless. Development must therefore have a social dimension. Conscious of this need, the President of Guyana, His Excellency Mr. Cheddi Jagan, has advanced the concept of a new global human order. An essential feature of this order would be the consensus that has now emerged in respect of development and governance, the role of the State and the market and sustainable environmentalism. While this consensus is to be welcomed, it is attended by new social, economic and political problems which will effectively prevent it from taking us forward. The solution of these problems calls for a new global commitment to human ideals and universal human development. In his own address to the Assembly, President Jagan will expand on this proposal with a view to securing an appropriate declaration on a new global order to which all States can subscribe. As I said at the outset of my statement, we must not be content with merely celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. The critical situation in which the world now finds itself demands from us a supreme effort to make full use of the opportunities which this historical conjuncture offers. The possibilities of interdependence and international cooperation have never been greater. We owe it to ourselves and to future generations to grasp the chance we now have for creating a truly just and humane society of nations. May I at the outset congratulate President Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations and assure him of the full cooperation of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran at this important session, which coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. Less than a month from today, Members of the Organization will assemble in this very Hall to celebrate a half-century of operation of the United Nations. Fifty years ago, when the bitter events and experience of the Second World War were omnipresent, the original Members decided to establish an organization “determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”. They signed the Charter of the United Nations, the result of two months of negotiations and compromise among the participants at the San Francisco Conference, which was to serve as the framework and the guide to prevent war and promote the economic and social advancement of all nations, large and small. However, it is generally acknowledged that shortly after the establishment of the Organization, the spirit of cooperation and friendship gave way to bloc politics and rivalry, which led to the cold war and effectively prevented the achievement of the objectives enshrined in the Charter. It would not be excessive to point to the antipathy between the two blocs as the principal cause of wars, underdevelopment of the third world, suppression of liberation struggles of nations under foreign domination, and interference in the internal affairs of others. It was this mentality, prevalent in the bipolar world, which in effect denied the Organization the opportunity to fulfil its obligations completely, and which circumscribed the extent of participation by Member States in the decision-making process and brought about the dominance of a few countries. After 50 years of turbulence, the United Nations is now in one of its most sensitive periods. Although many problems and obstacles of the past no longer exist, a new set of challenges have appeared, each of which has taken the credibility, efficiency, relevance and ability of the Organization to task, and which provide opportunities and responsibilities to bring into conformity the modus operandi of international relations in general and the Organization itself in particular, with the purposes and principles of the Charter. Today the United Nations faces these challenges and opportunities at a time when it remains the only truly universal organization. This universality of the Organization can naturally put tremendous resources at its disposal to facilitate the achievement of the principles and 25 objectives of the United Nations Charter, particularly the maintenance of international peace and security, the promotion of economic and social development, justice and mutual cooperation, and place it in a better position to deal with emerging challenges in a more efficient and distinguished fashion. What should be of the utmost importance to the Organization is the extent to which Member States participate in its decision-making process. In fact, if we define and assess the universality of the Organization in terms of the wide participation by Member States in its decision-making process, and not merely in terms of the number of its Member States, and direct all our efforts to strengthening such universality, we will contribute tremendously to enhancing the credibility, authority and ability of the Organization. In other words, when public participation of all Members as sovereign States is guaranteed in decisions of the Organization and their implementation, then the possibility of the exerting of undue influence and dominance by a few States to shape the approach of the Organization vis-à-vis international issues according to the limited confines of their own national interests diminishes to a large extent. Regrettably, even in the current international environment, certain Members continue to adopt unilateral actions contrary to the provisions of the Charter, and thereby exhibit an absence, for their part, of the spirit of international cooperation. The arrogant approach and attitude of the Government of the United States of America towards the international community, and the unsuccessful attempts of the American foreign policy establishment to exploit issues of global concern, such as terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, to advance an extraneous and illegitimate agenda represent a most vivid and indeed dangerous manifestation of such unlawful unilateral measures. The United States Secretary of State must put to rest the illusion that his Government can become both the judge and the policeman of the global community. Nor should he expect others to follow American pressures against independent States brought to bear with the sole objective of pleasing Zionist pressure groups even at the expense of disregarding the interests of the American people. Perhaps they still do not really believe in the fundamental principle of the sovereign equality of States that constitutes the cornerstone of the United Nations and that requires each and every Member of the Organization to play its role in securing the objectives of the Charter. This mentality is unfortunately the unwelcome heritage of the cold-war period when, owing to the nature of bloc rivalries, States Members of the United Nations were viewed, not as independent, sovereign equals, but as members of power blocs. The unfortunate natural by- products of such a world view are inequality, hegemony, disrespect for the interests and spiritual values of other nations, disregard of the choices and opinions of the majority, preference for the short-term interests of the minority and self-serving interpretations of the rules and principles of international law. It seems imperative, therefore, that in the new international political environment all organs of the United Nations, particularly the Security Council, should adopt substantive and procedural measures to facilitate the full integration and participation of all Member States. The Security Council, which constitutionally represents the general membership of the Organization and acts on its behalf, should muster the requisite political will to deal with all crises on the basis of principle and the same set of standards and should avoid preference for the interests of powerful States over the interests and choices of the majority in order to discharge its responsibilities in accordance with the Charter. To achieve that objective some structural, substantive and procedural reforms in the work of the Council, including democratization and transparency, are inevitable and will enhance the credibility, efficiency and relevance of the Council as the representative of the general membership. At the same time, I should emphasize that the most important organ of the United Nations, the one that is the manifestation of the principle of sovereign equality and affords direct participation to all Member States, is the General Assembly. Therefore, strengthening this important organ and ensuring the accountability of other organs, particularly the Security Council, before the General Assembly will guarantee full and more meaningful participation by the Organization’s general membership in its decisions and their implementation. This will go very far towards strengthening true universality and providing the most effective guarantees for the implementation of its decisions. In the past few years, following the end of the cold war, we have witnessed increased efforts to formulate new sets of international standards in various political, social and economic spheres. A thorough review of the final documents of recent international conferences clearly 26 illustrates that, notwithstanding the conceptual and normative transformations which the international community has undergone in the formulation and expression of its concerns and recommendations, it has legitimately stood firm on the need to respect the fundamental principles that preserve the very fabric of our diverse and pluralistic world. For instance, concepts and phrases such as “the necessity and importance of upholding full respect for the spiritual and ethical values, national and regional particularities, as well as different historical and cultural backgrounds of countries”, and “the necessity of homogeneity and conformity in final documents and recommendations of international conferences with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and the prevalence of a spirit of international cooperation and consensus in their implementation and follow up” have been incorporated and reaffirmed in the final documents of the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen, and the recently held Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. This clearly attests to the fact that while the international community has taken it upon itself to adopt a just and non-discriminatory approach through international cooperation towards the protection and promotion of all human rights, including the right to development, as universal, indivisible and interdependent rights, it continues to insist on the absolute imperative of guaranteeing that in the process of international standard-setting, promotion and protection, the sanctity of the principle of the national sovereignty of all States is respected and that no nation’s religious values and beliefs and cultural and national identity are infringed. Furthermore, the Charter of the United Nations recognizes international cooperation in economic and social issues as necessary for the maintenance of peaceful and friendly relations between States. Unfortunately, notwithstanding this emphasis, because of the conditions prevailing in international relations, both during and after the cold war, the importance and centrality of issues related to economic and social development have not received due consideration. In addition, at a time when the North-South gap continues to widen on a daily basis, the world economic trend, manipulated by unilateral actions and protectionist policies on the part of the developed countries, also tends further to debilitate the potential of the developing countries to deal with the adverse impacts of international economic development. In this connection, we welcome the Secretary-General’s “Agenda for Development” and announce our intention to participate actively in the deliberation of it. We firmly believe that post-cold-war opportunities should be utilized to their maximum potential so as to place issues of economic and social development at the centre of the United Nations attention. Hence, there is a renewed need for recommendations about and practical measures for expansion of the role of the United Nations in promoting the economic development of developing countries, as well as full and rapid implementation of relevant agreements and internationally agreed upon objectives in this field. In this connection, the fundamental principle that States have the right to benefit from the utilization of their own resources that are vital for their sustained economic growth and development in accordance with their national policies and priorities must not be neglected. Another key characteristic of the post-cold-war era is the expansion of peace-keeping operations, which have, in recent years, demanded an increasing share of the energy and resources of the Organization. Nevertheless, the expansion of United Nations peace-keeping operations should not take place at the expense of its activities in the area of development, which constitute one of the most effective measures for preventing the occurrence of tensions and conflicts as well as for ensuring tranquillity and stability. The Islamic Republic of Iran, along with other non-aligned countries, supports the United Nations peace-keeping efforts in principle, but emphasizes that all Member States that are willing and able to participate in such operations should be treated equally and without discrimination. In like manner, while a unified United Nations command structure is essential for successful peace-keeping operations, its leadership should not be the monopoly of a handful of States. Although the United Nations has been successful in returning peace and stability to some volatile parts of the world, its disregard for some important principles has resulted in the failure of the Organization to resolve other crises that still rage. Let me emphasize that it is absolutely imperative for the United Nations fully to respect fundamental principles, including national sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of States in all phases of the establishment and execution of peace-keeping operations. The Islamic Republic of Iran, eager to contribute more actively to this growing area of United Nations 27 activity, announces its readiness in principle to participate in United Nations peace-keeping operations in accordance with our tenets and the fundamental principles of the Charter. Here, I deem it necessary to reiterate the preparedness of the Islamic Republic of Iran to dispatch peace-keeping forces to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we had earlier committed along with other Islamic countries to strengthen the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) in order to enable it to discharge effectively its mandate to protect safe areas. We hold the firm view that if the Security Council had at least provided the necessary mandate or committed the necessary forces for the protection of the safe areas, including through taking advantage of the assistance offered by the Islamic countries, the Bosnian Serbs could not have continued, with relative ease, their crimes of genocide against the defenceless people of United Nations-declared safe areas. However, the lack of political will to suppress aggression and to deal effectively with non-compliance with United Nations decisions, coupled with the unreasonable, immoral and legally baseless insistence by some on extending the arms embargo against the former Yugoslavia to the victim of its aggression have in fact proven to the Serbs that they can continue with impunity their murder, destruction, aggression, “ethnic cleansing” and genocide. Since the outbreak of the crisis, Islamic countries, including the Islamic Republic of Iran, have adopted a constructive position and called for international cooperation in finding a just and peaceful resolution of the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The recent decision of the joint meeting of Foreign and Defence Ministers of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) Contact Group and troop contributing countries to establish the “Assistance Mobilization Group” in order to address the humanitarian, economic, legal and defence requirements of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina represents a proper approach to this tragedy in keeping with the principles and purposes of the United Nations. This decision, along with the previous declaration by OIC member States of their readiness to dispatch a sufficient number of peace-keepers to Bosnia, as well as their declaration on the “de-jure inapplicability” of the arms embargo on Bosnia and Herzegovina are not only solidly based in international law, the United Nations Charter and humanitarian principles, but also emanate from the considered assessment that without a proper military balance, it would be impossible to compel the Serbs to engage in serious negotiations or to guarantee the unhindered implementation of any negotiated settlement. In this connection, the Islamic Republic of Iran welcomes the recent cooperation between the two Contact Groups, and holds that only a plan which does not entail recognition of the fruits of “ethnic cleansing” and guarantees the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a Member of the United Nations can restore peace and stability to the region. Furthermore, it is necessary in any peace negotiations to accord the non-Serb populations of Kosovo, Sanjak, and Vojvodina the same rights and privileges as those requested for the Serbs in Bosnia. Moreover, in order to guarantee a durable settlement and to preclude the repetition of aggression and genocide, the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991 should continue its work resolutely, without any regard for political expediency, and severely pursue and punish those who are found guilty. The increasing growth of inter-State cooperation within the framework of regional groupings constitutes another characteristic of the new international climate. There exist natural common grounds for cooperation, as well as shared interests among the countries of any region, which together create a framework for the promotion of regional organizations. Such regional cooperation leads, in turn, to enhanced peace and stability in each region and the world through the expansion of a culture of cooperation, coexistence and dialogue. In this context, the Islamic Republic of Iran has emphasized regional cooperation and taken significant steps in this regard in order to enhance prosperity, peace and stability throughout its own region. Today, the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) has grown to an organization with 10 members. With a population of 336 million, rich natural resources and considerable potential, and in close proximity to important centres of economy and trade in Asia, Europe, and the Middle East, the organization endeavours to strengthen and expand its activities, particularly in the areas of transportation, communications, trade and energy, in order to achieve well-being and prosperity for the peoples of the region, and to promote trade and economic growth. In another effort for the expansion of regional cooperation, the Islamic Republic of Iran has made concrete proposals for the establishment of the Caspian Sea Cooperation Organization which, with the 28 participation of the littoral States, would aim for the expansion of cooperation in the fields of shipping, fishing, the protection of the environment and the exploitation of the resources of the Caspian Sea. Fortunately, the proposal of the Islamic Republic of Iran has been accepted by the States concerned, that is, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Azerbaijan and the Republic of Turkmenistan. In our opinion, the Caspian Sea must be a sea of peace and tranquillity whose affairs will be decided by the concurrence of all its littoral States. Considering the political and economic characteristics of our region, and the occurrence and expansion of conflicts and tensions due to internal and external factors, the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran feels nationally and internationally obliged to exert every effort aimed at the enhancement of economic prosperity and regional security, the prevention and de-escalation of tension and the peaceful resolution of regional crises, based on respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, the inviolability of internationally recognized borders, and non-interference in the internal affairs of others. In Afghanistan, while refraining from any involvement in the regrettable fratricidal war, our policy has focused on keeping channels of communication open with the Government and all Afghan groups in order to put an end to fighting and to bring about a negotiated settlement. In the crisis in Tajikistan, the Islamic Republic of Iran has exerted every effort and has succeeded in securing negotiations in Tehran at the highest level between Government and opposition groups, leading to the signing of significant agreements concerning a cease-fire and the peace process. Attempts to find solutions to these crises require the constructive engagement of regional States and the effective participation of the United Nations and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. At the same time, the maintenance of internal and regional stability and security in Central Asia and the Caucasus requires economic prosperity. The Islamic Republic of Iran, in view of the special economic and geographical situation of regional States, has tried to serve as a reliable economic and trade partner, through bilateral economic cooperation, as well as the establishment of trilateral commissions with the participation of States from within and outside the region aimed at the expansion and facilitation of trade. Inter-State cooperation in the sensitive and strategic area of the Persian Gulf, where regional States share many commonalities, can also lead to economic prosperity, as well as guaranteeing peace and stability. The military presence of foreign Powers, who have interests at variance with stability and long-term cooperation among regional States, cannot be conducive to achieving the common objective of securing the tranquillity of this important waterway. In the final analysis, all littoral countries of the Persian Gulf would be better served if they were to join hands in a concerted effort to maintain peace and security in the region, which will directly affect our destiny. Such efforts can be channelled through an institution organized by these same littoral States, where confidence-building measures commensurate with the specificities of the area can be devised and followed up. Reducing military budgets, setting a ceiling for arms purchases, acceding to disarmament and arms-control treaties, cooperating with the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms and devising a mechanism for transparency in armaments are but a few examples of confidence-building measures which the aforementioned institution could consider. The Islamic Republic of Iran declares its full readiness to enter into bilateral and multilateral negotiations with its neighbours in order to reach common understandings on these issues. In the Middle East, the Zionist entity, supported by certain powerful countries, continues its occupation of Palestine and parts of Syria and Lebanon, and persists in its policies of aggression, suppression of those who dare to express opposition to its illegal occupation, and violation of the very basic human rights of the Palestinian people. Experience and the events of the past few years further illustrate the fact that the only viable option for restoring peace and security to the Middle East is one which is comprehensive and just and which addresses the fundamental issues of the Palestine question. Such a solution should entail a realization of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, including the return of all Palestinian refugees and displaced persons to their homeland, the full and free exercise of their right to self- determination, and liberation of all occupied territories. In view of the volatility of the Middle East and the Persian Gulf, these two regions must be off limits to any foreign military presence and weapons of mass destruction. My Government continues to underscore the need to implement numerous General Assembly resolutions as well as the decision of the Review and Extension 29 Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East as an important factor for installing stability in the region. What has actually prevented the NPT from achieving its objectives and the establishment of the Middle East as a zone free from nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction has been Israel’s illegal nuclear capabilities and its refusal to join the NPT and put its unsafeguarded nuclear facilities under the safeguard regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Undoubtedly, without the direct and indirect financial and technological support of certain Western nuclear-weapon States, Israel could not have acquired the capability to develop nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, there exist strong indications that the nuclear capability of that regime is being continually increased by the very same countries that are the most vocal proponents of nuclear non-proliferation. This discriminatory trend persists even in circumstances where Israeli nuclear policy has adversely affected regional security, the negative effects of which include a lack of confidence and a perception of insecurity in the region, an escalating arms race and influx of foreign weapons into the region, and the refusal of some States in the region to join certain disarmament treaties. On the international level, it must be acknowledged that, despite the modest progress achieved in the control of nuclear, chemical and conventional weapons, these weapons have unfortunately increased qualitatively and quantitatively to an alarming degree. We are of the view that the failure of the international community to deal effectively with these weapons is primarily due to the fact that major producers of conventional weapons and weapons of mass destruction have prevented the United Nations from fulfilling its primary responsibility and central role in the field of disarmament. Another main reason for this failure is that the policies of major arms-producing countries designed to control the spread of weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons are always short-sighted and discriminatory and aim simultaneously at securing the destructive power of their own weaponry and their own military dominance. A glance at generally unsatisfactory disarmament negotiations in various fields, including nuclear disarmament, the Hague negotiations on the chemical weapons Convention, negotiations concerning verification systems for the bacteriological weapons Convention, and the performance of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms make the veracity of our contention quite evident. Following four weeks of difficult negotiations, the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the NPT could not reach the conclusion that any progress towards the primary objectives of the Treaty, including complete nuclear disarmament and the peaceful use of nuclear energy, had been achieved in the past 25 years. The indefinite extension of the Treaty must be viewed within the framework of three major final documents of the Conference, together with the necessity for all signatories, particularly the nuclear Powers, to commit themselves to the full implementation of all provisions and objectives of the Treaty. These obligations include achieving complete nuclear disarmament, expanding the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, strengthening the role and enhancing the authority of the IAEA as the only international body competent to oversee the good-faith discharge of Member States’ responsibilities under the Treaty, ensuring the universality of the NPT as an urgent priority, and establishing the Middle East as a zone free from nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. In this connection, the nuclear-weapon States should, as a first step, prove their good faith by refraining from nuclear testing and finalizing a comprehensive test-ban treaty in 1996. The Islamic Republic of Iran, inspired by the divine teachings of Islam and benefiting from national solidarity and the continued participation and efforts of its people, has endeavoured to develop a society on the basis of the dignity and worth of the human person and respect for human values, a society whose ethos includes fairness and social justice as well as cultural, social and economic development. In this regard, despite extensive damage caused by the imposed war and other economic pressures, the Islamic Republic of Iran, endowed with the resolve and work ethic of its entire population, has been able not only to move towards reversing the vast destruction of the war, but also successfully to complete its first five-year economic and social development plan and embark upon the implementation of the second five-year plan on solid foundations. We foresee bright prospects for a strengthened economic, social, cultural and political infrastructure. Since the Islamic Republic of Iran firmly believes that the maintenance of peace and security, at the national, regional and international levels alike, is dependent upon economic growth and sustained development, we spend only about 1 per cent of our 30 national budget on defence and devote the rest to overhauling and strengthening our economic, social and cultural infrastructures. We have made this strategic decision at a time when the bitter experience of military aggression against my country, a foreign military presence in the region and an alarming military build-up following the second war in the Persian Gulf could have justified very extensive military expenditures. The current session of the General Assembly provides a golden opportunity for us to engage in a serious review of the performance of our Organization over the past 50 years, assess the current international situation and try to shape the conduct of international relations in the light of the United Nations Charter in a fashion that remedies the shortcomings of the past. The most important characteristic of our world is its cultural diversity, which has enriched human civilization. The experience of the past 50 years has clearly illustrated that attempts to impose Western standards, beliefs and culture upon the rest of humanity have not only failed to achieve the desired results, but also undermine the foundations of peaceful coexistence and mutual understanding because, in spite of the appearance of championing the cause of freedom and tolerance, such an approach manifests extreme intolerance towards the values and beliefs of others. Mutual respect for the rights, values and beliefs of all members of the international community, along with the empowerment of all nations to participate actively in the setting of international norms, the maintenance of peace and security and the promotion of economic and social development throughout the world must form the solid foundation of Member States’ activities in the next 50 years of the United Nations. The Islamic Republic of Iran is prepared to fulfil its role in this respect. It is a great pleasure for me to see you, Sir, presiding over this very important session of the General Assembly. As a politician with a long and distinguished career, you are eminently qualified to guide us ably through the crucial coming months. It goes without saying that I fully endorse the intervention by Minister Solana on behalf of the European Union. At this fiftieth anniversary session of the General Assembly, I would like first of all to affirm the deep attachment of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to the United Nations. The United Nations is the expression of the relatively new notion that nations and people anywhere in the world have the same rights and are bound by the same duties. For 50 years, this Organization has provided the basis for building a civilized international community and we cannot afford to be cynical about the United Nations. There is no alternative to the United Nations in dealing with global challenges. It is up to us, the Member States, to make use of the Organization and to make it work. This anniversary should be an occasion neither for self-congratulatory speeches nor for despondency. Rather, it should inspire us to unite in a renewed effort to bring the Organization into harmony with the demands of the times. In this age of instant communication and televised images, respect for human rights and solidarity among nations can no longer be applied selectively. Aggression, war crimes and massive violations of human rights, such as those in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, trigger an immediate and massive response throughout the world. It is impossible for people to remain indifferent to the fate of their fellow human beings anywhere — unless, of course, they should be denied access to these means of communication. However, the revolutionary growth of communications has also created a gap between people’s demands for action and the limited ability of Governments and organizations to satisfy these demands. The same observation applies to national decisions touching on the security concerns of people in countries around the globe; and nowadays, these concerns include environmental, ecological and all other aspects of human security. Sovereignty has become restricted and circumscribed because of new global interdependencies. It is an illusion to think that in this age States can continue to conduct their business in splendid isolation without regard for international public opinion and sensitivities. Again, as sovereignty becomes less formidable a barrier and people organize themselves freely and globally in various ways, the need for global 12 regulation becomes more pressing. For this purpose, people look to the United Nations. But can the United Nations meet these new demands? The crises in Bosnia and Rwanda illustrate the types of conflict that at present pose the biggest threat to the international system. In many parts of the world ethnic, racial and religious divides are resurfacing with a vengeance. Where State structures are weak or disintegrating, those divides may become battlegrounds for struggles over land, water and other scarce resources. The response of the international community to these political and humanitarian emergencies has often been inadequate, slow or hesitant. Lack of resolve in the early stages of a crisis has forced Member States to scramble later to close the gap between their acts and their words and to restore lost credibility. There is a certain tendency to take words for deeds and to be satisfied with words alone. Language is a currency whose value depends on corresponding behaviour. For the United Nations to be credible, its language must be credible, and its language can only be credible if it is matched by its deeds. These are simple, basic rules, not only in banking but also in politics. Unfortunately, it can be convenient to forget these rules for reasons of political expediency. In such cases a higher price must be paid at a later stage. The war in former Yugoslavia is a tragedy for its people, but it also exemplifies the dangers threatening the international order. The fatal practice of “ethnic cleansing” has been unanimously condemned by the international community. Those warnings have not been heeded, and the mad dream of ethnic purity is still being pursued. The practice of “ethnic cleansing” has, moreover, set in motion a cycle of revenge and further violence. The end of the war may now come into sight, thanks to forceful international intervention and a shifting balance on the ground. The current diplomatic initiative is designed to exploit this opportunity and finally to create conditions for true peace. We should do everything in our power to assist the negotiators in their mission. But for the international community, represented by the United Nations, the question also remains of whether it should have intervened earlier, and with greater decisiveness. Members of all the parties to this conflict have at various times committed crimes and breaches of international law. But there is a difference in the scale of human rights violations and criminal responsibility. The Bosnian Serb side has from the beginning resorted to “ethnic cleansing” and acts of terror against the civilian population as a systematic tool in its campaign, and therefore its leaders carry prime responsibility for initiating these practices. The latest and perhaps largest single crime was committed against the population of the former Bosnian enclaves of Srebrenica and Zepa. The victims were living in areas declared safe by the Security Council. The Serb behaviour has been condemned by the Security Council, but the United Nations and its Member States cannot escape sharing some of the blame for not living up to the United Nations commitment. We, the Member States, had convinced ourselves — and what is more, our Bosnian protégés — that a largely symbolic United Nations presence would be sufficient to deter aggression. It did not. We have been proved cruelly wrong, and as a result the populations of the enclaves paid a terrible price in terms of human life and displacement at the hands of the Bosnian Serbs. The Netherlands, whose small contingent of Blue Helmets was powerless to prevent the onslaught on Srebrenica, is deeply shocked by the massive violations of human rights which were committed by the Serb aggressors. We share the Security Council’s deep concern about the fate of the former inhabitants of Srebrenica who have not been accounted for. There are strong indications that thousands were murdered in cold blood. It is a disgrace that the Bosnian Serbs have not honoured their commitment to give immediate and full access to representatives of international organizations to investigate the situation of those who are missing. In the interest of the credibility of any future peace agreement, we cannot acquiesce in the Bosnian Serb refusal to cooperate on this and other human rights issues. We expect the same kind of cooperation from the Croat and Bosniac authorities with regard to verification of reports about human rights violations in areas under their control. If similar calamities are to be prevented in the future, we, the Security Council and the troop contributors, must ensure that the operational aspects of the Council’s resolutions have a solid foundation in military planning and available capabilities. This includes the political will to use those capabilities when needed. Therefore, in the future no mandate should be given 13 before the means and the readiness for implementation are assured. Srebrenica and Zepa have also shown that humanitarian action can never be a substitute for decisive measures against a party which perpetrates aggression and massive human rights violations. Humanitarian assistance, important though it undoubtedly is in itself, risks being tainted in the eye of the public if it is perceived as a substitute for decisive action going to the root of the problem. In order to avoid the repetition of violent outbursts, the seeds of future wars must be eliminated. These seeds often lie in the ruthless exploitation of situations of potential conflict by unscrupulous politicians and local warlords. To deter such action, justice must be done and be seen to be done. The establishment of the international criminal Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda may prove to be an important step in the right direction, and in more than one respect. For the second time in history, after Nuremberg and Tokyo, the international community is holding individuals responsible for their actions during wartime and in the initiation of war. So, hopefully, the blame for atrocities will not be put on entire peoples, which would call for massive revenge in the future, but on those who are personally and directly responsible. We hope that the creation of these Tribunals will prove to be a catalyst for the establishment of a permanent international criminal court. The question of United Nations credibility in Bosnia and Rwanda points to a broad range of issues related to United Nations reform in the domain of peace operations, the structure and work methods of the Security Council, finance and the economic and social area. Let me comment briefly on each of these. At last year’s session of the General Assembly I noted that a more rapid response by the United Nations might have prevented the genocide in Rwanda. My suggestion was that in order to deal with emergencies like these we should consider creating a permanent brigade which could be deployed almost instantly once the Security Council had taken a decision. In the months thereafter this idea was explored in a series of consultations in New York and at an international colloquium organized in the Netherlands. These discussions resulted in the Netherlands non-paper on a United Nations rapid deployment brigade, which was distributed to all Member States last April. But the idea of a United Nations brigade should be seen as a contribution to the wider debate on United Nations peace operations. The most logical manner to address the problem of rapid response would be, in my opinion, a small, standing United Nations force which could fill the time lag between a Security Council decision and the deployment of national contingents. However, the Netherlands will support and actively contribute to any proposal that represents an intermediate step towards the longer-term objective of a United Nations force for rapid deployment. Against this background, we applaud the Canadian study on a United Nations rapid-reaction capability. Among other things, it recommends, as our colleague Mr. Ouellet pointed out, setting up a United Nations planning cell, which could function as a mobile headquarters and be part of the vanguard concept. That is, it could be the nucleus of a force composed of national contingents under the United Nations stand-by arrangements system. We fully endorse this recommendation, which partly realizes the idea I raised and in due course could lead to the creation of a standing United Nations brigade. We shall be in touch with other interested Member States in order to coordinate practical suggestions with a view to possible further political action. The continued viability of United Nations peace operations ultimately rests on the preservation of their legitimacy. This implies that the Security Council should be made more responsive to the views of the United Nations membership at large. The transparency of the Council’s decision-making concerning peace operations has already undergone noticeable improvements. Nevertheless, further adjustments are called for. Therefore, we support the creation of a mechanism for the discussion of all aspects of peace operations with troop contributors. The Assembly should address with the utmost urgency the critical financial situation of the United Nations. Without early agreement on financial contributions, there can be no basis for the necessary broad reforms. It is unacceptable that responsible Member States should carry the burden of making up for other States’ lack of financial discipline. These States are in contravention of the Charter, which makes assessed contributions, once agreed, a binding obligation on Member States and, thus, of international law. I strongly associate myself with the European Union Presidency in calling upon Member 14 States to pay their contributions in full, on time and without conditions. The problem can be solved only if Member States participate actively in the current negotiations aimed at strengthening and reforming United Nations financing and refrain from unilateral actions. The Netherlands, for its part, will participate constructively in efforts to arrive at a solution. The provision of the necessary resources would also give the United Nations the possibility of dealing more effectively with the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples. But effective multilateral action on socio-economic issues is not a matter only of financial resources. It will require new thinking on the future of the United Nations. The Secretary-General indicated the right direction last year, in “An Agenda for Development”, in his analysis of the five dimensions of development: peace, economic growth, the environment, justice and democracy. A number of initiatives, some from within the Organization and others, such as the Carlsson report, from outside, aim at strengthening, revitalizing and reforming the United Nations. The Netherlands recognizes the need for a thorough debate and early decisions on ways to improve the performance and accountability of the United Nations. We welcome these initiatives, including the creation of the High-level Open-ended Working Group by the General Assembly. I could imagine that three years from now, in 1998, a ministerial conference could meet to agree on the basis for the implementation of the High-level Group’s findings. In the field of disarmament, the Netherlands attaches the highest priority to the conclusion next year of a comprehensive test-ban treaty. In order to ensure that the negotiations will reach this absolutely essential objective, they should be given a strong political impulse. In this context, the Netherlands deplores the recent nuclear tests and fervently hopes that the other nuclear-weapon States will maintain their moratoriums. A decision not to conduct any further tests would be of great benefit to the creation of a positive climate for the resumption of the negotiations and their successful completion in 1996. Therefore, the Netherlands strongly urges the nuclear-weapon States to desist from all further testing. Having said all this, I should like to close on a note of hope and appreciation for what the United Nations has done and can continue to do in a number of very important areas. I am thinking of the environment, the population problem, human rights, the status of women, democratization and social policy. In these areas, the United Nations is providing the infrastructure for the shaping and consolidation of a world-wide consensus and for the practical realization of what this consensus is about. Much of this happens through large-scale conferences, with elaborate preparatory processes involving the various regions of the world and a wide spectrum of both governmental and non-governmental actors. The women’s Conference in Beijing is clear proof of the crucial role of these meetings in bringing about a global awareness of the issues at stake. These conferences set norms and standards by which individuals and non- governmental organizations around the world can measure the progress made by Governments and by the United Nations as a whole towards well-defined goals. If properly implemented and monitored they can prove to be decisive for the quality of life of future generations, and even of our own, and for the credibility of our Organization. It gives me great pleasure to make use of our common language to congratulate you, Sir, on your election. We are honoured to see a Portuguese statesman, a friend of Brazil, and a representative of our commonwealth of Portuguese- speaking countries presiding over this session of the General Assembly, a session that is bound to become a milestone in the history of the United Nations. My Government is confident that, under your skilled guidance, our deliberations will forge the kind of understanding and commitment capable of asserting the credibility and pre-eminence of our Organization in world affairs. Let me also express our heartfelt appreciation to another friend of Brazil, Minister Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for his outstanding work at the helm of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. (spoke in English) I wish to congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and the Secretariat for their continued dedication to the United Nations and for their relentless work in carrying out their duties to the international community. In opening this debate today, Brazil wishes to renew its unwavering commitment to the principles and purposes embodied in the Charter of the United Nations. These principles and purposes set a mandate for peace and development, and are as relevant today as they were 50 years ago. They coincide entirely with the aspirations of Brazilian society. Our Constitution reflects them as the supreme values of our political and social life in democracy. I am proud to address the Assembly as the representative of a country that has widened its commitments to democracy and human rights, to sustainable development with economic stability, to peace and disarmament — a country at peace with itself, constantly striving to extend its presence in the world by strengthening traditional partnerships and fostering new ones. We expect from our partners an attitude of cooperation commensurate with Brazil’s growing participation in world markets and with its contribution to international peace and security. Democracy in Brazil continues to show extraordinary vitality under the leadership of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso. Our institutional framework is being strengthened, and progress in the social sphere is generating a renewed sense of citizenship among Brazilians. While strictly enforcing existing mechanisms, President Cardoso is proposing legislation that will ensure the full observance of human rights. Both at home and abroad, Brazil’s human rights policies are based on transparency and full cooperation with civil society. Together with strong governmental action to tackle the country’s social problems, measures to promote and protect human rights will greatly contribute to redress the unjust distribution of wealth that unfortunately still prevails in Brazil. Long-needed structural reforms and privatization are being carried out, paving the way for the consolidation of economic stability and sustained economic growth. Brazil has achieved a high degree of economic openness, thus accelerating its integration into the international economy and creating more favourable conditions for increased participation in international trade, technology transfers and productive capital flows. Inflation has been reduced to the lowest level in a quarter of a century, allowing the country to pursue policies that benefit the poor and the underprivileged. We are also engaged in a broad and dynamic process of open economic integration with our neighbours, adding economic substance to the political harmony that we enjoy in our region. MERCOSUR — a customs union bringing together Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay — is a highly successful political and economic reality, a partner ready for business and cooperation with all countries and regions. Brazil has taken significant steps to further strengthen its commitments to disarmament and to the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. President Cardoso publicly stated that Brazil has forgone the development, acquisition and export of long-range military missiles. Congress is about to approve the Chemical Weapons Convention, and comprehensive legislation on export controls of dual-use technology is being finalized. Having decided unilaterally to abide by the Missile Technology Control Regime’s guidelines, the Brazilian Government is currently discussing its participation in the regime. Brazil’s commitment to peace and understanding was clearly illustrated by its recent role, alongside the other three Guarantor countries of the Rio de Janeiro Protocol, in bringing together two friendly nations in our region — Ecuador and Peru. Brazilian forces are actively participating in various United Nations peace-keeping efforts, particularly in Angola, a country that shares with Brazil a common heritage and is finally on the verge of healing the wounds inflicted by years of internal strife. We are also proud of the role played by our Government and our forces in the peaceful transition to an elected government in Mozambique. After too many years of difficulties, Brazilians have recovered their pride. The country has entered a cycle of long-term growth and greater long-term opportunities, an era of optimism and confidence. It is in this spirit that Brazilian diplomacy is prepared to approach the world and to work within the United Nations. As I reflect upon the events that have taken place over this past year, I am tempted to say that “it was the best of times; it was the worst of times”. It has been a time for legitimate hope, but also a time of fear and horror; a time for accomplishments, but also a time of frustration; a time for confidence in a brighter future for mankind, but also a time of regret for the fact that peace, freedom, justice and well-being are still unattained in many places in the world; a time in which risks and opportunities coexist side by side. 2 Current patterns in international affairs converge on the twin concepts that inspired the revolution of the 1990s: democracy and economic freedom with social justice. This is the main thrust that will shape the coming century and ensure liberty and prosperity for all. The very concept of power has changed. A country’s sovereignty and its capacity to satisfy the needs of its people depend increasingly on good social indicators, political stability, economic competitiveness, and scientific and technological progress, not on military strength. It is now widely understood that the fulfilment of national pride lies in democracy, development, trade and economic wealth, rather than in the quest for hegemony or territorial gains. A new era of freedom is at hand. Countries are peacefully seeking their place in their regions and in the world, helping in the creation of wealth through trade and cooperation. Emerging economies have become a significant force around the world, benefiting from globalization, greater economic freedom and the continued growth of international trade. Economic integration has led to stronger regional ties. Reconstruction and enhanced participation in international affairs are seen in many parts of the world, just as others continue to prosper and grow in peace. New or renewed partnerships have emerged in the five continents. The Middle East is finally following the path of dialogue and understanding, through a peace process that we firmly support and encourage. Angola and Mozambique are the new promises of southern Africa, furthering regional peace and conciliation as the South Africans have done. Latin America, and in particular the Southern Cone countries, has continued to show vitality both at the political level, with democracy fully at work, and at the economic level, with freedom and openness leading to the resumption of growth and the expansion of trade. The United Nations has kept its role in the maintenance of international peace and security. A broader agenda for the remainder of this century is under consideration. Positive initiatives are under way to ensure that the Organization is capable of more effectively promoting peace and development. Reform of the system is also due to make it more responsive to the challenges that lie ahead. The promotion of civil liberties and the quest for equal rights among women and men, minorities and majorities, weak and strong are shaping the debate, guiding action and strengthening citizenship all over the world. These are indeed times of positive change. But even as one celebrates these positive trends, one is painfully aware of the manifold threats posed by the persistence of poverty and violence in many areas of the world. The images of the former Yugoslavia are living proof of past failures and present challenges and misperceptions. They remind us of how much needs to be done to fulfil the promises embodied in the United Nations Charter. Extreme poverty and unemployment emerge as perhaps the most pervasive of the international issues, affecting developed and developing countries alike, corroding the social fabric while fostering extremism on the part of individuals and engendering short-sighted solutions on the part of governments. Terrorism, drug trafficking, organized crime, xenophobia and racism, ethnic cleansing, religious fanaticism and intolerance, and persistent violations of basic human rights continue to afflict millions of human beings. Misguided economic policies, financial speculation and the volatility of capital flows threaten markets on a global scale. Emerging economies, striving to consolidate stability and the resumption of growth while dealing with variables such as interest rates and commodity prices, have become increasingly vulnerable. Disarmament continues to be an elusive goal. The promises heralded by the end of the cold war seem to have vanished in a cloud of vague excuses. The so-called peace dividends have yet to materialize. The world is theoretically less threatening and dangerous. Competitiveness, technological capability, economic strength and social indicators have become the standards of national power. Yet, more positive moves in disarmament and non-proliferation have been offset by anachronistic economic practices and irresponsible military endeavours. Some countries continue to seek military strength and strategic power. Even as commitment to non-proliferation and support for nuclear disarmament gain ground in Latin America, Africa and parts of Asia, nuclear tests painfully remind us of the threats and horrors that haunted the collective imagination during the cold-war years. Besides endangering the environment they 3 encourage the resumption of a purposeless arms race in various parts of the world. Nuclear testing undermines efforts towards disarmament and jeopardizes the conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear-test ban. Instead of helping the international community strengthen collective security mechanisms, certain countries persist in testing and improving their nuclear arsenals. We deplore it. So where does the United Nations stand in the current international scene? How can it deal with the conflicting and ambivalent forces operating in the world today? Where does its responsibility begin and where does it end? What can we do to realize the vision of our founding fathers? These are some of the questions that come to mind as we prepare to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization. It is certainly true that the Organization may have seemed at times to be overwhelmed by the challenges before it. But it is also true that the shortcomings over these past 50 years would have been greater had it not been for the United Nations, a universal conscience, an instrument for peace and understanding, as no other instrument has ever been, with a moral authority that the peoples of the world have learned to recognize and support. In 1941 when the United Nations was but a distant dream overcast by war, Franklin Delano Roosevelt defined the four freedoms upon which a true community of nations should be built. They were — and I find it useful to recall Roosevelt’s own inspiring words — the freedom of speech and expression; the freedom of every person to worship God in his own way; the freedom from want, which “translated into world terms, means economic understandings which will secure to every nation a healthy peace time life for its inhabitants”; and the freedom from fear, which “translated into world terms, means a world-wide reduction of armaments to such a point and in such a thorough fashion that no nation will be in a position to commit an act of physical aggression against any neighbor”. Providing mankind with these four freedoms was the challenge that ultimately gave birth to the United Nations. Yet, these four freedoms are still largely unattained. They remain an inspiration and a goal. In the past 50 years, the nations of the world have used this podium to voice their hopes and concerns and to express their feelings about a true international partnership based on peace and prosperity. The United Nations has undoubtedly represented a call for consensus, a moral and ethic force, a promoter of political will and action, a substitute for confrontation and dispute. The time has come for us to carefully assess the achievements and shortcomings of the United Nations in order to set the course for the next half-century. The time has come for us to create the conditions for the United Nations of the twenty-first century. In the aftermath of the Second World War the idea of an international body such as the United Nations may have seemed utopian, especially in the light of the failure of the League of Nations and of the tragedies and crimes that resulted from the pursuit of power politics, the kind of politics that led the world into war and its horrors. While avoiding utopianism, the United Nations was designed to provide actual instruments of diplomatic interaction capable of replacing power politics by ethical values and of promoting conflict prevention and conflict resolution through negotiation and dialogue. With a pledge to peace and security on the one hand and to development on the other, the United Nations helped to write important chapters of contemporary history, such as the building of a new pattern of relationship between developed and developing countries, the search for development, disarmament, the protection of human rights and human dignity, decolonization, the struggle against apartheid and the condemnation of tyranny and oppression. In this process important organizations such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), and decisive forums such as the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), and the several other United Nations conferences dedicated to global issues, have played a paramount role. In these forums we have enhanced commitments in the areas of cooperation for development, the law of the sea, the rights of children, the environment and sustainable development, human rights, population, social development and the rights of women. We have certainly accomplished one part of our dreams. So why not set our eyes on further accomplishments? We look at the recent past and find the 4 United Nations at the centre of the most important international events. Even when its action has been constrained by circumstances, the United Nations always displayed moral strength. We look at the present and we see a United Nations limited by its structure, struggling very hard to take advantage of its own experience to adapt to changing world realities in order to remain the foremost international force. And so Brazil confidently looks to the future. Peace and development in the years to come will depend largely on our capacity to renew and reform the United Nations. In institutions, as in human beings, reassessment and reform are a sign of vitality, of maturity, of responsibility. As Brazil has already pointed out a normative gap has opened up between some of the provisions of the Charter and the realities of today’s world. The fact is that most of the structures of the United Nations remain those crafted 50 years ago. Back then, the world was entering a new phase of power politics and confrontation that no longer applies. The membership of the United Nations was less than one third of what it is today. The concept of development was not at the core of an international agenda. Significant players in the developed and in the developing world had yet to achieve the influential role they have today. New realities demand innovative solutions. Greater expectations require stronger commitments. Nothing is more emblematic of the need to bring the United Nations into line with the realities of the post-cold-war world than the reform of the Security Council. As a catalyst for other much-needed reforms within the United Nations system, reform of the Security Council is an imperative that should no longer be put off. In order to carry out its mandate in the field of international peace and security on behalf of all Member States, the Security Council must have unquestionable legitimacy. As is well known, legitimacy ultimately rests on representativeness. Reform cannot entail a wholesale or indiscriminate enlargement of the Security Council, much less an insufficient one predicated on the convenience of a limited number of States. Above all, it will be essential to ensure a more equitable representation of developed and developing countries with both the capacity to act and an effective presence on a global scale. The emergence of new economic powers and of a number of developing countries with global projection has significantly altered the dynamics of world politics. These players have come to the forefront of the international scene and should be present in the core group of permanent members, so that the Council’s composition becomes more balanced and better reflects the diversity of world views. A qualitative increase in the number of permanent members of the Security Council, together with an enlargement of the non-permanent membership, would correspond to the necessity of making it more authoritative and efficient in carrying out its increased responsibilities in the post-cold-war era. Reform is not about the individual prestige of any country but about the prestige of the Security Council itself. Brazil, for its part, is ready to assume its responsibilities in this endeavour. The same attention that is being given to improving the United Nations performance in the area of peace and security must be given to efforts in the area of strengthening international cooperation for development. Poverty and unemployment both in industrialized and in developing nations, economic instability and misguided economic policies affecting individual countries, as well as the persistence or the rise of various forms of protectionism, are factors that adversely affect sustained growth worldwide. These are issues that must be accorded high priority. Unemployment cannot be used as a pretext that will ultimately lead to protectionism directed mainly against the developing countries. There is no use in trying to alleviate unemployment by accusing other people, by creating new forms of disguised protectionism, by putting a new strain on international relations. We must strengthen the role of the World Trade Organization as the mainstay of an open and non-discriminatory multilateral trade system. We must promote a broader coordination of macroeconomic policies and foster regional economic integration, and provide better and more effective cooperation in the areas of health, sanitation, education, the administration of justice and other areas of great social impact. We must widen the decision-making circles in order to include countries whose contribution to these objectives can be instrumental. 5 The United Nations should be able to ensure implementation of the commitments reached at the highest level at the United Nations Conference on the Environment and Development, for much needs to be done to fulfil the promises that were made in Rio de Janeiro regarding international cooperation for sustainable development. The same kind of follow-up should apply to the commitments reached at subsequent international conferences on global issues. These are the main goals to be achieved by a reform of the United Nations institutions that directly or indirectly deal with the issue of sustainable development. We firmly believe that a broad vision of reform of the United Nations institutions will lead to an improved, more efficient and revitalized Organization. For, as once stated in this very forum by a distinguished Brazilian statesman, Oswaldo Aranha, who presided over the first special session of the General Assembly, in 1947: “Above all, it is within our power to make the United Nations the sum total of justice, security and peace, or through our lack of wisdom to allow it to be transformed into one more sword to be wielded blindly by force and instinct.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, First Special Session, 68th plenary meeting, pp. 3 and 4) The United Nations will stand as the greatest symbol of the twentieth century as long as it is able to keep its vitality and effectively promote peace and development. Brazil is also committed to peace and democracy and believes that if all peoples of the world are free to express their ideas and to build their own destinies, democracy will be strengthened and will continue to serve the purpose of development and social justice. Brazil is also committed to, and knows that development depends on, an international environment of peace, cooperation and economic freedom. As our Heads of State and Government prepare to gather in New York in October to celebrate the accomplishments of our Organization, let us hasten to create the necessary conditions for them to build for the future with the same impetus and boldness that inspired the international community 50 years ago. Let us make sure that through our unfaltering commitment and our timely action the United Nations will emerge stronger from the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. Allow me at the outset, Sir, to express my satisfaction and that of my delegation at the President’s election to guide our deliberations. We have strong ties with Portugal, based on the many cultural values that we have historically shared on the fertile soil of the Ibero- American community. For this reason, it is a great pleasure for me to offer Don Diogo Freitas do Amaral our sincerest cooperation and to congratulate him in advance, by virtue of his well-known qualities, on his successful leadership of this memorable fiftieth session of the General Assembly. The delegation of Panama wishes to take this opportunity to express to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our recognition of the skill, intelligence and dedication with which he is fulfilling his responsibilities at the head of our Organization. This fiftieth anniversary has been a year rich in events. Under the leadership of the United Nations, there have been two major world gatherings — the World Summit for Social Development at Copenhagen and the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing — which have focused the attention of the world on matters that are highly complex and difficult because of their cultural, social and political implications. It is gratifying to see that these meetings have fundamentally mobilized women, who are increasingly occupying their rightful role, and that the Conferences have contributed enormously to convert the quest for a solution to the problems of the family and of children into the responsibility of us all, and into a moral imperative that transcends the healthy differences between us. Panama values as a substantive result the hopeful consensus and the important guidelines agreed upon. We reiterate the responsibility of Panama in the Non-Aligned Movement, as well as our readiness to attend the Summit at Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, to contribute to the necessary review, just as we greatly value our participation in the Group of 77. In this context, we reiterate our deepest solidarity with the least developed countries, with which we are cooperating within our means. My delegation is convinced of the need to bring this Organization up to the level of its new and growing responsibilities, and to adapt its functioning, its procedures and its structures to the new conditions that characterize contemporary international society. We are convinced that this is a feeling shared by all Member States, and we believe that existing differences will in due course be resolved. Panama is following with great attention the discussions taking place in the Working Groups on the Security Council, on the financial situation, on the supplement to “An Agenda for Peace” and on the “Agenda for Development”. In particular, and in accordance with decisions taken in the Rio Group, Panama believes that the increase in the membership of the Security Council should aim at correcting existing imbalances in the regional distribution of membership, as well as changing its procedures and working methods, so that the Council can function in a transparent way, in keeping with the letter and spirit of the Charter. In this context, we support the admission of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the expanded Security Council. We are convinced that the expectations of the international community for renewed action by the United Nations can be satisfied only if the financial crisis confronting the Organization is overcome in such a way as to allow it to respond to the mandates of Member States. We are particularly concerned at the consistent trend towards a reduction in funds for development and cooperation programmes, as well as proposals to reorient food programmes towards emergency assistance programmes. We consider the review and indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to be of extreme importance, together with the approval of provisions for its periodic review. As a State party to the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which establishes the first nuclear- weapon-free zone, and as a coastal State of the Pacific, Panama wishes to reiterate the Declaration of the Rio Group regarding the resumption of nuclear testing, because that practice has a negative impact on the delicate compromises that this subject involves, as well as the Group’s readiness to continue to negotiate treaties for the total prohibition of such testing, as well as the production and use of chemical and biological weapons. Likewise, we vehemently reject all forms of terrorism, wherever they exist, as well as expressions of racism and intolerance, which are incompatible with our status as members of the human race. Respect for human rights is and must be a fundamental part of the new universal ethics, which my country has accepted as an integral part of our value system and which my Government is completely fulfilling. We are profoundly concerned at the overall situation of the African continent, whose peoples deserve the best of destinies. Nonetheless, we are extremely pleased to underscore the admirable example offered to us by the South Africans who, moving beyond racial or cultural motivations, in a long and heroic effort that has caused so much suffering, have put an end to the most odious form of discrimination — apartheid. The difficulties involved in meeting, living together and working as equals in an atmosphere of tolerance and cooperation cannot conceal the important contribution being made today by the leaders of that Republic under the inspiring leadership of President Mandela, to whom we wish to accord a special recognition for having constructed the democratic foundations of a multiracial and multicultural nation, fully incorporated into the international community. In the Middle East, particularly in Palestine and in Israel, we are delighted to see the efforts of two Governments and their respective leaders and peoples who are struggling tirelessly to consolidate the peace agreements and to move forward in building lasting peaceful coexistence. Our country wishes to add its voice of encouragement to all the forces involved in this exemplary commitment, which contributes so much to the strength of the United Nations system and to international ethics. Panama, a defender of the rights of the Palestinian people and a sincere and constant friend of the Jewish people, as well as of the Arab peoples, believes it is appropriate for the international community to begin to adjust the direction of its own decisions in order to strengthen what is new, to lend greater force to that which unites us, in order to encourage those who desire peace. Inspired by these events, the Member States of the United Nations should recognize the recent achievements that have been made and further encourage the parties to the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina to find the political will to arrive at firm, lasting agreements that will spare their own peoples the suffering and pain of being innocent victims of war, of racism and of intolerance. The United Nations peace-keeping forces must be respected and protected, because this is what their noble mission demands and because this has been the decision of the community of nations. The same message applies to other areas of the world that are threatened by violence, or that are subject to breaches of the peace. I believe it is appropriate to refer to the request made by a large number of States, including Panama, to include the item of the special situation of the Republic of China in Taiwan on the agenda of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. Panama supports this request because it is interested in the unification of China. But since that eventuality is as yet unforeseeable as regards the “when” and “how”, we are convinced that both parties should coexist and participate jointly in the international community with equality and mutual respect. Panama, as a coastal country of the Pacific, and completely sovereign in the inter-oceanic Canal whose neutrality opens it to peaceful use by all nations of the world, desires friendship with all States and wishes to normalize its relations with all users of this inter-oceanic passage. The Torrijos-Carter Treaties provide for the culmination on 31 December 1999 of the process of the return to Panama of the inter-oceanic canal and adjacent facilities and the agreed withdrawal of the troops and military facilities of the United States. This exceptional diplomatic and political event constitutes an example of the peaceful and just settlement of disputes between a world Power and a small country, which today have excellent relations of friendship and cooperation based on trust and mutual respect, as is appropriate for two States committed to efforts to consolidate prosperity, peace, security and democracy on the continent. The regime of neutrality of the Panama Canal, in establishing freedom of transit for ships, without discrimination, promotes the strengthening of an interdependent world with an increasing trend towards international cooperation. It also provides in our hemisphere a concrete example of a system of collective security which ensures the peaceful uses of that inter-oceanic canal, openly, on equal conditions, both in times of peace and in times of war, for ships of all flags and nations of the world. From this rostrum we reiterate the invitation to States Members of the United Nations to adhere to the Treaty concerning the Permanent Neutrality and Operation of the Panama Canal. We are and shall remain the Western hemisphere’s key to the immense Pacific. President Ernesto Pérez Balladares’s recent successful tour of Asia, following his attendance at the Quito Summit of the Rio Group, and his acceptance of the invitation of the President of the United States to go to Washington reflect the desire to reaffirm clearly our decision to establish the closest political, diplomatic and commercial relations with all nations in the geographic arc from Japan to Australia, through the Philippines, and including all the other coastal States of the Asian continent. In keeping with this, we are interested in being admitted to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, as is appropriate for a country that is essentially maritime and commercial. We therefore wish to continue to be the point of convergence, the meeting-point, of races, cultures and civilizations. We wish to continue to express our natural historical and geographical calling, which inspired the Amphictyonic Congress of Panama of 1826, initiated by Simón Bolívar, the Liberator, and which later made possible the emergence of the Organization of American States, the United Nations, the Contadora Final Act and the Rio Group — cornerstones of agreement, dialogue, peace and regional and universal democracy. This explains that our openness to the Caribbean basin, in entering the Association of Caribbean States, our incorporation into the Central American Integration System and our admission to the Andean Group as a permanent observer are basic to our foreign policy, which involves intense activity to create bonds of integration and cooperation in the framework of fruitful, open regionalism. In this context, we believe it extremely important to express our encouragement for the efforts being made by the Secretary-General and his Group of Friends in the negotiations aimed at bringing peace at last to the noble people of Guatemala. We welcome the fact that Contadora is once again becoming a point of reference in the painstaking negotiation of national conciliation for that fraternal people. Panama is honoured to have hosted very recently the parties that reached the initial agreements to bring lasting peace to Guatemala. We welcome the achievements of the European Union and its members, and recognize the value of its important contribution to international cooperation. We encourage it to complement this contribution by intensifying trade with our own country and our region through renewed readiness to facilitate access for our products to its markets. We are conscious that Panama is a bridge not only to the Pacific, but also to the Atlantic, which opens up new opportunities with the States of the European Union. We are following with optimism and attention developments in the countries in transition, with which we wish to have close relations and increased exchanges. Panama, which is today a stable and secure democracy respectful of human rights, with a Government that represents with full legitimacy a people determined 3 to shape for itself a great future of peace and well-being, wishes to remain the cross-roads of international trade, open to all parts of the world, where, in an era of globalization and market integration, the goods and services that are the principal wealth produced by nations can circulate. Because of everything we are and everything we wish to remain, we are here today to share the opportunities that arise from a new situation, which, because it is not imposed by the manifest destiny of others, promises to open up paths towards a great future of cooperation and integration with the region and the world. Panama is particularly proud to invite the members of the international community that use our inter-oceanic waterway to join us in September 1997 in our capital for the Universal Congress on the Panama Canal, where all the direct and indirect beneficiaries of this marvel of the modern world can see the progress in the smooth transfer of the administration and control of the Panama waterway at the end of this century, and consider its modernization and enlargement so that in the twenty-first century it can continue to be the most efficient, most competitive and safest means of maritime transport for the exchange of merchandise and products vital to the economies of many countries of the world. Recognizing the importance of this matter, the General Assembly, at its third plenary meeting, held on 22 September 1995, made it agenda item 162 for the fiftieth session, under the title “Universal Congress on the Panama Canal”. We invite representatives to participate with us in the development of the infrastructure of transport and trans- isthmus communications to serve the continent and the world, with the creation — already under way — in our country, on the banks of the inter-oceanic Canal between the Pacific and the Caribbean, of a large port for the storage and handling of goods, which will complement the operation of the modernized Panama Canal. We also invite representatives to participate in the City of Learning project, a great international centre for the exchange of cultures and knowledge, being promoted by our country on the banks of the Canal. We also wish to say that we have offered the American hemisphere our territory and all the infrastructure and installations necessary to establish a multilateral centre to combat drug-trafficking and related crimes. Panama raised this matter at the recent Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Rio Group, which endorsed the idea and has put it to the President of the United States, Bill Clinton, because we believe that we can succeed in this enormous struggle only if all countries coordinate their plans and actions. At the same time, we strongly support the holding of a second international conference against the use of and illicit trafficking in drugs in order to deal with a problem that has become universal in scope. Panama, as a founding Member of this Organization and a signatory of the San Francisco Charter, has been with the United Nations for its 50 years, carrying on with it step by step, day by day, observing its magnificent achievements and its great difficulties, which for some are overwhelming. But this is not a time for fear or regrets; it is a time for new endeavours, a time to promote new forms, ways and means of international cooperation, with a view to generating, by cultivating the complementary development of our national individualities, the cultural, economic and human resources that can enable us to be free of poverty and backwardness and to open an ever- broadening road to understanding, tolerance, peace and prosperity as we enter the third millennium.Permit me at the outset warmly to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session, which coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. His election to the presidency of this important session reflects special appreciation for his well-known diplomatic skills. It also reflects his country’s role in and contribution to the international community and to consolidating its security and stability in line with the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Nor can I fail today warmly to thank His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy for his judicious management of the work of the General Assembly during its last session, and for his tireless role in restructuring the United Nations and democratizing its practices. Similarly, I should like to reaffirm my country’s appreciation of the role played by the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and of his indefatigable, invaluable work for international peace and security. We particularly commend the Secretary-General’s two reports, the Agendas for Peace and for Development, which constitute central pillars of the new international relations. This session takes place half a century after the founding of the United Nations. It therefore behoves us to pause for reflection on how the Organization has developed over the past five decades, for identifying positive and negative developments over that period and for working towards promoting the positive elements. We must steer the Organization in new directions that would spare us the negative elements which accompanied the progress of the Organization in the past. Proceeding from this, the Republic of Yemen supports the efforts aimed at developing the Organization’s machineries and principal organs in order for it to be able to rise to the challenges of the twenty-first century. My country, therefore, welcomes the introduction of structural reforms, especially with regard to expanding Security Council membership to reflect more accurately the new realities and recent changes in international relations, while observing the principles of equitable representation and geographical distribution and ensuring transparency in the Council’s work. My country is confident that these required reforms, when introduced, will contribute to the emergence of new international relationships that would be characterized by right, justice and equality. There is no doubt that the international conferences the World has witnessed since the end of the cold war on social, environmental and women’s issues, have been important steps taken by the United Nations towards shaping a new, integrated system with human development as its goal, in order to develop a new way of life, ensure the future of the human race, establish the foundations of equitable and sustainable development and work towards eliminating the spectres of poverty, ignorance and disease, dangers which continue to threaten hundreds of millions of the world’s inhabitants. In this context, my country wishes to express its satisfaction with the work carried out by the Committee on the Indian Ocean to make that region a zone of peace. We call upon States members of the Security Council, maritime users of the Indian Ocean and littoral countries to participate in the work of the Committee in view of the positive contribution it is making towards strengthening peace, security, stability and cooperation in the region, in the light of General Assembly resolutions 48/82 and 49/82. There is no doubt that the world at the end of the twentieth century is vastly different from what it was in the past. Many fundamental concepts of peace, development and security are changing, side by side with the developments that are taking place in international relations. In the light of these changes, everyone is becoming increasingly aware that human development should become the focus of the activities of the United Nations systems with a view to narrowing the gap between North and South, and to promoting economic and social integration on the basis of the common interests of States. If any achievement is to be made in this area, we will need to rely upon international economic cooperation in facing up to such international problems as mitigating poverty and eradicating famine from developing countries, especially the least developed among them. In this context, my country calls upon the international community to commit itself to implementing the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 45/206 of 1990. My country also welcomes the establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO), and the conclusion of the 1994 GATT agreements, which aim at enhancing integration, promoting equitable cooperation in trade relations and reducing the intensity of unfair competition between different societies. 14 The tragic situation of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been the focus of the international community’s attention. It has become clear that international efforts in that region have not succeeded due to the absence of a genuine desire to put paid to the horrific massacring of defenceless civilians in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Bosnian Serbs, in open defiance of the international will. Therefore, my country considers it imperative that the Security Council should hasten to lift the weapons embargo in order for the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be able to exercise the right of self-defence enshrined in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. It is not acceptable, in today’s world, that we should stand as spectators under whose eyes a tyrannical minority is allowed to impose by force its will over the majority’s legitimate rights. While the Republic of Yemen welcomes the peace efforts that are being deployed with a view to putting an end to the suffering of the Muslim people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it hopes for a concerted international effort to find a just solution, which would guarantee the freedom, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and ensure the continued provision of humanitarian assistance. The Middle East has witnessed developments which could represent an historical turning-point in the lives of the peoples of the region, and could thereby reduce the intensity of hotbeds of tension that threaten international security and stability. Special mention should be made of the positive gains made on the Palestinian-Israeli track, which resulted in the signing in Washington last year of the Agreement on the transitional period, and the recent Taba Agreement on the expansion of Palestinian autonomy. My country looks forward to the day when the Palestinian people will enjoy their full rights and establish their State on their own territory, with Holy Al-Quds as its capital. Despite the tangible progress made on the Palestinian and Jordanian tracks, we stress that just and lasting peace will remain contingent upon complete Israeli withdrawal from all the occupied Arab territories, particularly the Syrian Golan and South Lebanon, in accordance with United Nations resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), and in line with the principle of land for peace, on the basis of which the Madrid conference was held in October 1991. The civil war in Somalia and the tensions in the Horn of Africa which have exceeded the bounds of logic and reason, have caused serious trouble to the neighbouring countries, and will cause endless social problems. The perpetuation of the situation of disruption, confusion and infighting in Somalia is a source of grave concern to us all. Given Yemen’s Arab, regional and humanitarian obligations, it has suffered and continues to suffer the consequences of the war in Somalia. We have borne the burden of receiving and accommodating tens of thousands of refugees, but our ability to continue to do so will depend on whether or not the concerted efforts of the international community and the international and regional organizations will put an end to the suffering of the Somali people and stop the infighting between the warring factions. A solution to this tragic situation must be found and what has been destroyed by the war must be rebuilt, in order for the Somali people to resume a normal way of life. While my country affirms that Iraq should complete implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions, and cooperate fully with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to clear up the problem of missing persons and prisoners, it reiterates that Iraq’s unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity should not be infringed and that there should not be any interference in its internal affairs under any pretext. Yemen also repeats its call for the lifting of the economic sanctions against Iraq, in order to mitigate the suffering of the Iraqi people. This should be done without any devious interpretations of the resolutions of international legality and without the imposition of any new conditions relating to the nature of the political system, as this is a purely Iraqi matter that should be decided only the Iraqi people themselves. The Republic of Yemen wishes to express its satisfaction with the declaration made by Iraq to the Security Council, and made during the Organization’s Envoy’s recent visits to Iraq, that Iraq is prepared to cooperate with the international inspection team. The Republic of Yemen urges the international community and the Security Council to push for an end to the air blockade and other measures imposed against Libya, in response to the resolutions and decisions of the regional Organization in relation to the dispute, and in response to the positive initiatives calling for dialogue and negotiations. The Republic of Yemen also renews its appeal to its brethren in the Islamic Republic of Iran and the United Arab Emirates to reach a peaceful settlement to the problem of the three islands — Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Moussa — in accordance with the Charter of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), the 15 principle of good-neighbourliness and the precepts and principles of international law. The continued acquisition by the world of weapons of mass destruction, endangers international security and stability and obstructs the search for solutions to the problems of development. Disarmament and the channelling of a portion of military expenditure to development must be as fundamental steps towards the consolidation of international security and stability. Peace and development are two concomitant essentials for the life of man and should lie at the heart of United Nations future activities at the threshold of the twenty-first century. In this context, my country commends the achievements of the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in April 1995. However, the success of the resolutions adopted by this Conference will depend on the extent of commitment by all States to the contents of those resolutions, the affirmation of the universal dimension of the treaty and its full, not its limited implementation on the regional level, particularly in the Middle East. That will strengthen the legal force of the Treaty, and create the appropriate climate for the functioning of the institutions and mechanisms which will play a principal and important role in the process of its implementation. The Republic of Yemen, having achieved reunification on 22 May 1990, and having firmly consolidated the foundations of this unity through the triumph of our people over the separatist conspiracy on 7 July 1994, is now engaged in strengthening its democratic approach of political pluralism, respect for human rights and freedom of the press. Yemen is also engaged in effecting economic reforms that would enable it to achieve the qualitative transformations required by Yemeni Society in the economic life of the country, such as restructuring the national economy. This will make Yemen a force for peace and stability in the region, and enable it to contribute more effectively to the maintenance of international security and stability. As Yemen is one of the least developed countries, and in view of the damage done to its national economy by the separatist attempt, we hope that the international community will increase its support and assistance, in order to enable us to rebuild our social and economic structures and rid ourselves of the effects of the failed attempt. In the context of our foreign policy approach of dialogue and the settlement of problems by peaceful means, my country has resolved its border question with the fraternal Sultanate of Oman, and is in the process, with the same degree of sincerity and seriousness, of seeking a settlement to the border problem with the fraternal Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, through the work of joint committees, on the basis of the principles contained in the Memorandum of Understanding signed in Holy Mecca on 26 February 1995. The Republic of Yemen, as a member of the international community, has always performed and will continue to perform its humanitarian role in the framework of the United Nations. It will spare no effort in effectively participating with the international community in working for the maintenance of international peace and security. Let us then make this session a new point of departure, towards the renewal of the concepts of inter-State relations, and towards making our Organization a universal arbiter. On behalf of the Government and the people of Burkina Faso, permit me to convey to you, Mr. President, my sincere congratulations on your well-deserved election to the presidency of this historic session of the General Assembly. Your country, Portugal, has ties of friendship and cooperation with my own, based on the noble ideals of the Charter, and it has always worked to promote friendship and solidarity among peoples. Your election is therefore a recognition of your personal skills and qualities and also a well-deserved tribute to your country. I am certain that the other members of the Bureau will place their recognized skills at your disposal so that, together, you may guide the work of this session successfully. I wish also to convey our warmest congratulations and gratitude to my brother and friend, Foreign Minister Amara Essy, of Côte d’Ivoire, for the remarkable work he did as President at the forty-ninth session. With his tact and discretion he gave a tremendous impetus to the work of our Organization throughout the year. Lastly, let me once again pay a well-deserved tribute to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has, ever since taking office as head of the Organization, been working side by side with us to give real content to the basic commitments embodied in the Charter. The Agenda for Peace and the Agenda for Development he has produced and the consideration they have been given since their appearance have, we believe, been instrumental in ensuring that mankind, now and in future years, will enjoy an environment of peace, security and prosperity. The creation of the United Nations 50 years ago awakened tremendous hopes for mankind, which had, in the space of a single generation, suffered from two particularly savage wars with consequences that sorely affected the entire world and for which all peoples paid a heavy toll. The ambitious programme of the Organization’s founding fathers was to ensure for the future collective security, peace among nations and the harmonious development of peoples. Fifty years after that profession of faith, the record continues to reflect the contradictions and antagonisms that undermine our own States. However, no Organization has so successfully embodied mankind’s hopes for a better world. Admittedly, conflicts continue to exist and development seems more than ever a fantasy. However, thanks to the concerted action of States, the world has experienced no widespread conflict. Indeed, whenever a threat to world peace has arisen, the United Nations has been able to bring machinery to bear to limit the destructive effects. Thus, we have faith in the United Nations even though the half century through which mankind has lived since its creation has been experienced many ups and downs. But what would it have been like had the United Nations not existed to channel activities for peace, to oversee the post-war period and the cold war, to give its moral sanction to the emancipation of peoples, to coordinate assistance for economic and social development and to set a moral standard and order relations among nations and human beings? Those are important achievements, but they ought not make us forgetful of the fact that on the eve of the Organization’s fiftieth anniversary there are still many hotbeds of tension in many parts of the world. In Europe, the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, notwithstanding some glimmers of hope on the horizon, continues to cause concern to all States. We hope that the talks now under way among the parties concerned will lead to a comprehensive settlement of the situation. In the Middle East the prospects opened up by the Declaration of Principles signed at Washington on 13 September 1993 between the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization continue to yield 5 promising results. Despite the extremists of every stamp who are incapable of accepting alternatives to violence and death, negotiations have not been broken off. The signing at Washington on 28 September 1995 of the Agreement negotiated at Taba on a timetable for the second phase of the Israeli Army’s withdrawal from the West Bank and the transfer of additional powers to the Palestinian Authority is a further step in the right direction. Burkina Faso encourages this pattern of negotiation, which led to the Peace Treaty between Jordan and Israel of 26 October 1994 and to the opening of talks on the Golan Heights between Israel and Syria. We also encourage talks on the Lebanese- Israeli relationship. In Asia, Burkina Faso welcomes the spirit of dialogue and cooperation that prevails between the two Koreas and between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America. We would note, however, that a country like the Republic of China in Taiwan has not been able to be among us again this year, at a time when we are to celebrate a historic event. With respect to the question of Jammu and Kashmir, Burkina Faso urges India and Pakistan, two fraternal neighbouring countries, to find a solution to that problem through bilateral negotiations. The African continent is facing many problems with deep and complex roots. Many African countries continue to be destabilized by savage conflicts that are causing millions of refugees and displaced persons to take to the roads and surge across international borders, where their precarious living conditions demand our attention. In Central Africa, the Great Lakes region remains a powder-keg that can explode at any moment. The miasma of the tragedy in Rwanda can infect other regions if the problem of refugees and displaced persons is not very rapidly and correctly settled. We urge the Government and people of Rwanda to continue to mobilize against extremism and to seek genuine national reconciliation based on justice, equity and tolerance as well as on the country’s economic and social reconstruction. In Burundi, notwithstanding the efforts of the international community, the situation continues to be disturbing. It seems evident that that country will enjoy peace and security only when there is a clear and manifest resolve on the part of its political leaders to guide their country to peace and concord without hegemonistic designs or hidden ethnic agenda. In that respect the Government Convention signed on 10 September 1994 is a starting- point that should be respected. The international community has a very great responsibility in this region. Rwanda, Burundi and the countries of asylum have an urgent and pressing need for assistance. Thus, the United Nations Conference on peace, security and stability in the Great Lakes region should be convened as soon as possible so as to give the situation all the attention it deserves. For its part, Burkina Faso is contributing to the process by participating, on the one hand, in the Organization of African Unity Observation Mission in Burundi while, on the other hand, under the auspices of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, it is participating in the maintenance of security in the Rwandan refugee camps in Zaire. In Somalia, the warlords continue to wreak havoc in the country, unmoved by the suffering of the Somali people. We can only hope that as events unfold and lessons are learned from experience they will come to understand the vanity and incongruity of their behaviour and that they will reexamine their course of action and avert disaster for their country. In Sudan, Burkina Faso supports the work being done by the Intergovernmental Authority on Drought and Development to find a solution to the fratricidal conflict that has divided that country for so many years. We welcome the steps in that direction being taken by President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya. In West Africa the determination of the States of the subregion and the efforts made to develop understanding and some confidence between the factions in Liberia have led to the signing at Abuja, in Nigeria, on 19 August 1995, of an agreement that offers prospects of peace for Liberia. Burkina Faso, as a member of the Committee of Nine on Liberia of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), was privileged to act as witness to that Agreement between the Liberian factions. Like the other members of ECOWAS, it will be vigilant in ensuring that its terms are strictly complied with until the general elections scheduled for 1996 are held. Sierra Leone, a neighbour of Liberia, has for a number of years endured a cycle of violence that has inflicted unspeakable suffering on the civilian population. At a time when Liberia is committing itself to the path of 6 peace, we urge those involved in the conflict in Sierra Leone to do the same, by opting for negotiations. Burkina Faso welcomes the positive developments in the situation in Angola. We hope that the spirit of dialogue that now prevails through the Lusaka Protocol of 20 September 1994 will enable that long-suffering country to return to the path of peace, democracy and development. I want to hail the work of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU), which are making enormous efforts to settle conflicts. We are firmly convinced that peace is indivisible and that the United Nations remains its primary champion throughout the world, and especially in Africa. More than ever before, Africa is seeking its proper course. While there is universal agreement on the need for democratic regimes, good governance and respect for human rights, the paths we must travel to achieve those things are tortuous and difficult. Yet, in our view, crises stemming from the transition to democracy will be quickly overcome. The real grounds for concern lie rather in the dangerous implosion we see today in African societies that are based on poorly managed democratic processes and chaotic governance and, above all, whose populations suffer grinding poverty. Here Africa must face up to its own realities. Without questioning the need for international solidarity or the primacy of the United Nations in conflict settlement, Burkina Faso, like other African countries, knows that Africa must be the first to invest in the solution of its problems. That is what it is doing, without waiting for adequate means to be provided. It is in that spirit that Burkina Faso and its leader, President Blaise Compaoré, have been supporting the efforts of our brethren in neighbouring countries of the subregion and elsewhere on the continent. It was also in that spirit that Burkina Faso joined the other countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in working towards the agreement between the contending factions in Liberia. And it is in that same spirit that Burkina Faso supports the Mechanism of the Organization of African Unity for the Prevention, Management and Resolution of Conflicts in Africa, which is an African response to new crisis situations on the continent. In short, Africa has its problems. To be sure, it has received bilateral support from members of the international community. But on the multilateral level, unfortunately, all the global programmes adopted to date have been implemented only in a timid and inadequate manner. The most recent of these, including the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, are suffering terribly from a lack of financial resources and, to be frank, from a lack of political will on the part of the majority of our partners from the developed world. In this connection, our apprehensions were confirmed by the results of the recent high-level intergovernmental meeting to undertake a mid- term review of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s. Meanwhile, our debt burden has obstructed productive new investment, and deteriorating terms of trade have cancelled out earnings from commodities. More and more, Africa is losing its share of the international market, ultimately facing inescapable marginalization at a time when the globalization of the world economy is becoming apparent. But globalization demands solidarity and interdependence. We must make a choice: if wealth does not spill over borders, then poverty and destitution will. One of the problems calling for world solidarity is that of the environment, and especially the fight against drought and desertification. When, faced with the great droughts of the 1970s in Western Africa, Burkina Faso mounted a campaign to combat this scourge, the international community did not seem to understand its importance. Today, protecting the environment is one of the priority tasks of States. The Rio Conference on Environment and Development, the June 1994 adoption of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, and the entry into force of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Framework Convention on Climate Change have truly given fresh impetus to greater awareness in this area. But what good are all these instruments without the resources needed to fight the evils they are meant to attack? Burkina Faso made a substantial contribution to the drafting of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, and hopes that it will quickly enter into force, to give even greater momentum to the efforts of our countries within the Permanent Inter-State Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel, and, with respect to East Africa, within the Intergovernmental Authority on Drought and Development. 7 On the eve of its fiftieth anniversary the United Nations stands at a crossroads. It must turn away from cold-war reflexes and stride resolutely towards the horizon of the twenty-first century. It must adapt quickly to the new context of a more open, globalized world, and must from now on accept the clear determination of all States to participate in world affairs. In this context, the United Nations needs to make the changes that will enable it to better profit from the contributions that States and regions are ready to make. But the most biggest challenge facing the United Nations is undoubtedly that of the poverty and destitution that still afflict one fifth of mankind. The world of solidarity and brotherhood that we want to build will be possible only if all human beings can live in dignity. In that connection, we have been working for five years on principles and objectives for children, women, the environment, human rights, population and social development. Let us implement them. It is with that hope that we approach the work of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. On behalf of Burkina Faso, I reaffirm our complete devotion to the noble ideals of the United Nations. It is a great honour for me to extend to you, Sir, warmest congratulations, on behalf of the delegation of Trinidad and Tobago, on your election as President of this session of the General Assembly. The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and the urgent need to respond to a number of major questions facing the Organization make this a singularly important year. We are confident that with your vision and leadership you will guide this historic Assembly session to a successful conclusion. My delegation would also like to express its deep appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for the able manner in which he presided over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We are also particularly pleased to welcome the small island State of Palau as the one hundred and eighty- fifth Member of the United Nations. Most States represented in this Hall were not present at the historic signing of the United Nations Charter in San Francisco 50 years ago, but on gaining independence they applied for membership in this Organization as an essential part of their quest for a secure and stable international environment and improved standards of living. Trinidad and Tobago, a small democratic State, which gained its independence in 1962, was no exception. Since 1962, when we became a Member of the United Nations, there have been profound changes in international relations and consequent increases in the responsibilities of this Organization. The most dramatic of these changes was the end of the cold war, which engendered a certain optimism that there would be an anticipated peace dividend which would provide impetus to international cooperation for development. Unfortunately this was not to be. The end of the cold war triggered an almost unprecedented surge of ethnic and nationalist conflict, which proceeded to consume much of the attention and resources of the international community. Our Organization has had to adapt quickly to meet these challenges. There was a sudden and meteoric rise in the volume and, indeed, the complexity of United Nations peace-keeping activities. The Organization has had its share of successes and disappointments. However, despite the failure to meet growing expectations, the United Nations can be justly proud of many of its achievements in the field of peace-keeping, in the restoration of democracy, and in its response to emergency situations. The successes in Central America, Cambodia, Namibia, Mozambique and South Africa bear ample testimony to the effective role the United Nations can play in the advancement of peace, justice and security. In our region, the cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of American States in the 9 restoration of the democratically elected President of Haiti shows what can be accomplished once the necessary political will exists in support of such actions. In this regard, we welcome the recently held legislative and local elections in Haiti, which, in spite of difficulties, saw thousands of Haitians assemble peacefully and safely to cast their ballots. We are confident that these developments will serve to enhance Haiti’s efforts to consolidate democracy, and will assist in the process of national reconciliation. The international community must continue to assist the Government and people of Haiti in the post- emergency period and in their long-term efforts to achieve economic and social reconstruction. In the Middle East, Trinidad and Tobago welcomes the interim agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization on the expansion of Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank, which was signed in Washington, D.C. on 28 September 1995. It represents another significant advance in the process towards lasting peace in the region. As for the former Yugoslavia, we are encouraged by the efforts on the part of all sides in the conflict to come to the negotiating table, and we express the hope that this development will significantly advance the process towards peace and stability in that war-torn region. On the African continent, the spirit of reconciliation which has prevailed in some areas of conflict gives us hope that some of the seemingly more intractable problems can also be resolved. The international community must fulfil its responsibilities in assisting the process. Earlier this year the States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons decided to extend the Treaty indefinitely. The Conference also adopted a number of principles and objectives, one of which called for the completion of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty no later than the third quarter of 1996. It was also the understanding of the international community that there would be no further nuclear tests, pending the entry into force of that treaty. Trinidad and Tobago has joined other parties to the Tlatelolco and Rarotonga Treaties in rejecting current nuclear testing by some nuclear-weapon States, and appeals to those States to heed the mounting requests to cease nuclear testing. Related to our environmental concerns over nuclear testing is the equally critical issue of the marine transport of irradiated nuclear fuel, plutonium and high-level radioactive wastes. These shipments continue to take place despite the potentially catastrophic effects on small island developing States, whose fragile and vulnerable economies are overwhelmingly dependent on their marine and coastal resources, and who possess neither the resources nor the capability to deal with possible accidents of this nature. My delegation would therefore like to reiterate the priority concern which we attach to this issue, and to urge the shipment countries to respect the wishes of the small island developing States and other en route States, which have called for an end to these shipments through their archipelagic and territorial waters as well as their exclusive economic zones. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations will be a time for reflection and re-examination of the activities of the Organization, not only as they relate to conflict situations but, equally, in the field of development as a necessary precondition for peace and as the best guarantee of long-term stability. At the national level, Trinidad and Tobago has undertaken a programme of economic reform and restructuring of the economy, which is almost complete. Our development focus has been on the pursuit of a sound macroeconomic policy based on a number of measures, which include a disciplined fiscal stance and the consistent implementation of an orderly and broad- based divestment programme, the enactment of structural and legislative reforms designed to provide an environment for the growth of a resilient and internationally competitive private sector and one conducive to greater foreign investment, the liberalization of the trade and exchange-rate regimes aimed at enhancing our competitiveness and a comprehensive programme of reform of the domestic financial system. Emphasis has also been placed on the reform of the public sector and the provision of basic infrastructure in order to ensure the efficient delivery of reliable, high- quality services, the progressive restructuring of our educational system so as to put in place a sustainable human-resource development programme which would respond to the new challenges and needs of our development, and the employment of social policies aimed at protecting the most vulnerable in our society. In order to succeed, however, these measures must be complemented by a supportive regional and international environment. For small States, regional integration is an imperative, and, increasingly, regional cooperation systems are seen as providing the essential building blocks on which to construct hemispheric and wider 10 international cooperation. At the last Conference of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) Heads of Government, held at Georgetown from 4 to 7 July, Trinidad and Tobago was pleased to welcome Suriname as the fourteenth member of the Caribbean Community. The successful inaugural summit meeting of the Association of Caribbean States, which was held at Port of Spain from 17 to 18 August 1995, has also opened a new chapter in the history of cooperation among countries of the wider Caribbean. The adoption of the Declaration of Principles and Plan of Action on Tourism, Trade and Transportation provides a practical blueprint to foster development and enhance economic integration among all countries of the Caribbean. In this context, Trinidad and Tobago reiterates the importance we attach to the full reintegration of Cuba in the Western Hemisphere. I have already alluded to the need to achieve greater balance in United Nations activities in the fields of peace- keeping and development. The need for such a balance assumes even greater urgency when one recognizes that to an increasing extent the nature, scope and complexity of development challenges today are beyond the limits and control of the nation State. To the traditionally elusive development problems of persistent poverty, debilitating debt, declining levels of official development assistance, unemployment, demographic pressures and the worsening income gap and terms of trade between developed and developing countries, one must add the new and additional challenges of environmental degradation and globalization. Some of these will continue to require a national approach, but the great majority of them are beyond the limits of national action and thus require a common commitment, a common approach, and a call to global neighbourhood action. The notion of shared responsibilities and the recognition of the need for mechanisms for collective action are the raison d’être of the United Nations system. A coordinated and integrated United Nations system that is focused and adequately funded thus remains the best hope for effectively dealing with these myriad and complex development challenges. I can think of no better way to refocus and recommit the United Nations to the goals of development and global security for all than through the formulation and implementation of a comprehensive action-oriented agenda for development. An agenda which continues to address traditional development problems while simultaneously tackling the questions of protectionism, capital flows, reform of the international economic decision-making processes and management of the global economy must be the focus of our efforts. At the recent Fourth World Conference on Women at Beijing, the international community recognized the crucial role that women play in the development process and acknowledged that effective international cooperation for development will remain an elusive goal unless women can participate fully in the political, economic and social life of their respective societies. The Beijing Conference, along with the other global conferences held at Rio, Barbados, Cairo and Copenhagen, have served to buttress the case for an integrated approach to sustainable development, which must be informed by environmental, social, demographic, gender and human- resource considerations. The agenda for development must therefore seek to implement and fulfil, in an integrated manner, the commitments arising out of these Conferences. Within the agenda for development particular consideration must also be given to assisting developing countries, especially those with small and vulnerable economies in advancing their economic transformation and in facilitating their greater participation in the world economy. Trinidad and Tobago is committed to free trade and to placing its economy on a development path compatible with the demands of the new global order. However, as the challenges of globalization have demonstrated, national policies are not enough. To achieve sustained economic growth and sustainable development we need a supportive and favourable international economic environment as well as a fair, open and non- discriminatory trading system, one which recognizes that small and vulnerable economies like our own are at a particular disadvantage because of our size and the lack of economies of scale. No effort must therefore be spared to ensure that we are provided with the necessary market access so critical to our trade-expansion and development objectives. Indeed, to do anything less within the agenda for development would be a denial of the fact that globalization has now placed an even greater responsibility on the major developed countries to ensure that their macroeconomic policies are favourable to growth and development in the rest of the world. Trinidad and Tobago is also of the view that the agenda for development offers an opportunity to develop 11 the global partnership for sustainable development and to promote the implementation of the agreements reached at the Earth Summit at Rio de Janeiro in 1992. In this process, the special situation and needs of small island developing States and the recognition of their environmental vulnerability must receive priority attention. Trinidad and Tobago therefore wishes to reiterate the particular importance we attach to the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. In the Caribbean, recent devastating hurricanes have once again dramatically demonstrated the fragility of the ecosystems and the vulnerability of the economies of small islands. We are grateful to those Member States which have joined CARICOM countries in providing emergency assistance, and we appeal to the international community to continue its support for reconstruction efforts in the affected countries. The General Assembly will be called upon at this session to make several critical decisions relating to the future of the United Nations system. Trinidad and Tobago is of the view that the elements of the reform exercise currently before the Assembly constitute a good basis for a more effective United Nations. Indeed, Member States must use the momentum provided by this fiftieth-anniversary session to reach an agreement to expand the Security Council so as to enhance its legitimacy and effectiveness, to resolve the critical financial situation of the United Nations, to complete an action-oriented and comprehensive Agenda for Development with adequate and predictable resources for its implementation, and to strike a reasonable balance between resources for peace-keeping and for development. Reform, however, cannot be an end in itself. It is but a means to an end, and it will only be meaningful if we are united in the view that a strengthened and revitalized United Nations is an imperative, given the inescapable reality of today’s global village; that the world of the future will need more, not fewer, effective international collaborative mechanisms to confront common threats; and that the United Nations remains the only available instrument for the necessary global effort required to tackle these challenges. The critical financial situation of the United Nations must be a source of concern to all Member States. The Secretary-General has described with increasing urgency and frustration the difficulties he is facing in carrying out the tasks entrusted to him because of a lack of the necessary resources. The failure, in particular, of the largest contributor to pay its legally assessed contributions has placed the Organization on the brink of insolvency. There must therefore be a greater commitment on the part of all Member States to meet their obligations, as well as a greater manifestation of will to resolve the overall financial situation of the United Nations. Unless we demonstrate this commitment, the paeans of praise with which we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary will have a very hollow ring. At this fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, let us recall the opening words of the United Nations Charter: “We the peoples of the United Nations ... have resolved to combine our efforts to accomplish these aims.” In a spirit of global partnership, we must renew our resolve, in accordance with the principles and purposes of the Charter, to ensure the realization of the objectives for which the Organization was established: peace, equality, justice and development for all. Trinidad and Tobago pledges to work with others to confront the challenges that face our Organization as we move towards the twenty-first century. It is a pleasure for me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly on this, the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. I also wish to extend our recognition to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to the outgoing President, Mr. Amara Essy. We are convinced that one of the most important items of this session must be support for the effective and substantive reform of the United Nations. The only way to approach the construction of a new international order is by renewing our faith in multilateralism and giving the United Nations its central, indispensable role in the search for lasting solutions to the complex problems that all our societies are experiencing. Half a century has passed since the founding of the United Nations. With its successes and setbacks, its accomplishments and its problems, the United Nations has shown that only organized international cooperation will make it possible to prevent new conflicts. It is impossible 18 to imagine today’s world without this universal institution. The profound changes that have taken place since that era and the demands of the future make it necessary for the United Nations to be renewed, revitalized, reformed and strengthened. It is valid, then, for us to ask ourselves what the new vision of our United Nations is in a changing, global and interdependent world. The transformation of the United Nations cannot be separated from the profound transformations that democracy itself is undergoing throughout the world. Our Organization must be reformed on the basis of the new conception of democracy. The concept of democracy in the world has changed. Democracy is no longer a static concept, nor is it limited only to the internal affairs of States. Democracy is a patrimony of values that are common to all humankind. Today’s democracy is dynamic, and in order for it to take on a profound character, it should be understood as an unfinished work that is always in transition. Today I should like to emphasize various aspects of this international democratic transition, which is closely related to the transition that our Organization must undergo. First, we are moving away from the political agenda and moving towards the social agenda. The World Summit for Social Development, held in Denmark, reminded us that the ultimate objective of all our efforts is to improve the living conditions and quality of life of our peoples. Our Organization was born in the geopolitical era, marked by East-West confrontation and bipolar division. Today we are passing towards a world divided into economic blocs where social policies are demanding their rightful place at centre stage. Our Organization has the duty to facilitate this transition from a world divided between military Powers to a world where democracy, economic efficiency and social justice crown a new world order. Secondly, democracy is passing from centralized decision-making to broad participation by citizens in society. In this way we are moving from formal democracy to participative democracy, where power and choice are somehow returned to communities. This transition means more opportunity for dialogue and internal consensus within our societies. As has been said on other occasions, the concept of international peace gives way to the concept of internal peace within our States. Last year the Secretary- General himself said, at the luncheon he gave for Heads of State, that wars are no longer waged between States but, rather, within our nations. That is why it is so important to promote reconciliation and negotiation in divided societies. Thirdly, we are moving from bureaucracy to good government. This transition requires that special attention be given to the reform and modernization of the State. Efficiency and effectiveness should now be the new terms for public administration. Fourthly, we are passing from the unilateral perspective that has characterized the world to a focus on gender that opens the doors for the full, active participation of women in the great tasks of our times. Equality and equity between men and women is a basic principle for achieving the true development of international society. In this regard, the recent Conference in Beijing opened up a new chapter for us, leading towards this new goal. Our Organization also has to assimilate the transition from a partial concept of development to an integrated concept of sustainable development. This new concept requires us to combine the political dimension with the social, cultural, economic, ecological and even ethnic dimensions of development processes. Central America, a region that emerged into democracy from out of the ashes of war and conflict — a region, as the President of El Salvador, Mr. Armando Calderón Sol, said this afternoon, is going through a new stage in its history — has also adopted a new model of sustainable development that makes ours the first region in the world to try, through the concrete fulfilment of commitments in all areas, to make a reality of the agreements of the Rio Conference on Environment and Development. We Central Americans are moving from the model of military security centred on the cold-war poles of power to the new model of democratic security. The United Nations should therefore lead the way in this new concept of security, which is not limited to the military aspect. Rather, human security should be the new axis of this new model of world security. Today we Central Americans are discussing a treaty on democratic security, developed by Nicaragua, that enshrines this new concept of security, which is no longer based on number and quality of weapons, but, rather, on the quality of human life, the efficiency of democratic 19 institutions, civil security, the fight against drug trafficking, terrorism and arms trafficking and cooperation in all areas. We Central Americans have concluded that democracy and its improvement are the best way to strengthen regional security. We must be aware that we are also going through a transition to what we call preventive democracy. By this we mean that we should strive to anticipate conflicts and their causes in order not to have to resolve them later with the peace-keeping forces of this Organization. That is why we have always said that the best peace-keeping operation is the one that we can avoid, that we never have to carry out. This also means rechannelling efforts into the area of promoting human rights — no longer treating this subject as a mere list of violations of fundamental rights and freedoms devoting great efforts to the promotion of respect for those rights and human freedoms. In its reform process, our Organization should also take into account that commerce and investment are ceasing to be merely economic factors; they are becoming a genuine element of support for those democratic processes that demand to form part of economic development. The battles waged before on the battlefield are now waged in international markets. What we must understand is that there, too, a battle for the sustainability, progress and development of democracy is taking place. We are also making the transition from a world divided between opulence and poverty to one with a new focus on establishing a real alliance for development between the countries of the north and the countries of the south. The era of confrontation should give way to a new era of cooperation directed at reducing the inequalities between a rich and prosperous north and a dispossessed and poor south. We need to make the transition from an era of inequality of opportunities to an era of democratization of development. By this I mean, at the internal level, broadening the base of the benefits of progress for a steadily growing number of small and medium-sized businessmen. At the international level democratization of development implies sharing the benefits of progress in a more equitable manner between countries. It is not possible to make a deep revision of the structure of our Organization without looking at the profound changes that have taken place in the world and which are enriching and broadening many of our values, concepts and goals while presenting new challenges. For this reason it is very important to see that the reform of the United Nations rests on this global renewal of democracy, whose consolidation constitutes the fundamental political priority for the new world order we are all building. I would like to emphasize here that the new and restored democracies, which met in Managua in 1994, have much to do with and much to say about the future and the values of our Organization. The consolidation of democracy in the societies that lived through the totalitarian doctrines of this century is fundamental to sustaining this new vision of the United Nations. My country has always counted on the invaluable cooperation of the United Nations to complete a transition process characterized by its complexity. The United Nations has accompanied us on our road from a Nicaragua at war to a Nicaragua at peace; from a Nicaragua divided and without democratic institutions to a new Nicaragua that today enjoys complete freedom. The same United Nations is accompanying us in the process of strengthening the advances made, with the benefits of economic development. I would like to recall with special gratitude the various resolutions of this General Assembly, requesting Member States and international financial institutions to continue to lend their support to Nicaragua in a wider and more flexible manner, taking into consideration the exceptional circumstances of our country. Nicaragua now faces the challenge of successfully ending the first stage of its transition process, giving special attention to overcoming dire poverty, to the modernization of its institutions and to the improvement of its productive capacity. Nicaragua is preparing to hold its next elections in 1996, thus taking a new step in the consolidation of its democratic institutions. It is worth recalling that six years ago this Organization, for the first time in its history, participated in observing elections, and that happened in Nicaragua. Today I want to invite the United Nations to participate as an observer again, in these new elections which will mark a transcendental stage in our democratic process. These challenges make indispensable our continuing collaboration with the United Nations system and with friendly countries in establishing once and for all strong foundations for economic and social development and for a lasting peace. The United Nations still has much to do in Nicaragua. 20 I would like to refer now to the subject of the reform of this Organization. We need to move forward urgently in the matter of the democratization of the United Nations and all its main organs. In this endeavour Nicaragua fully supports an increase in the number of members of the Security Council, in order to ensure the equitable representation of all regional groups, among the permanent members as well as the non-permanent. In this context, we support the entry of Germany and Japan, countries that we are certain will make a significant contribution to the effectiveness of the Security Council. We must redouble our efforts to promote administrative and budgetary reforms that will make our Organization more efficient. We consider it necessary to continue with the functional and organizational strengthening of the Economic and Social Council, which should maintain its role as the custodian of the economic, social and cultural rights of Member States. We cannot speak of reforms in the United Nations without speaking of reforms in the General Assembly. The Assembly must be revitalized, and it should coordinate its activities more closely with the other United Nations organs. The President of the Assembly should be given more specific tasks, in accordance with the new circumstances I have already mentioned. There can be no reform of the United Nations without a solution to the financial crisis through which the Organization is passing. The continual budgetary problems must be examined in an honest, pragmatic way, since the credibility of the Organization is at stake. We are convinced that the development programme will be a strategy that is coherent, not only with the new vision of world development, but also with the goals and objectives of the new or restored democracies. It is necessary to have a creative programme for development, with universal validity, which will combine assistance for development, trade, investments, the transfer of technology and a reasonable solution to the problem of the debt and the negative transfer of resources. One of the fundamental pillars of Nicaragua’s foreign policy is general and complete disarmament, nuclear as well as conventional. Nicaragua is therefore concerned about the recent nuclear tests in the Pacific. Nicaragua is in solidarity with the 21 million inhabitants of the Republic of China in Taiwan, and in this context we call for resolution of the exceptional situation of the Republic of China through peaceful means, in accordance with the principles of the peaceful resolution of disputes between States and within the framework of the creation of an ad hoc committee of the General Assembly. Nicaragua takes the opportunity once more to salute the courage and determination of the South African people in the achievement of a new South Africa, united and non-racist. In Mozambique we hope that the process of reconciliation will continue and that, finally, that patient brother country will take the road to economic growth and development. Similarly, we hope that Angola will consolidate the establishment of a strong and lasting peace, indispensable for national reconciliation and reconstruction. As regards the Palestinian question and the Middle East, we are pleased with the positive and irreversible evolution towards a just and lasting solution to the conflict. We warmly welcome the recent agreements between Israel and Palestine. Our country continues to be alarmed by the situation in Somalia, Liberia and Rwanda, and considers that greater efforts are necessary on the part of the international community, and principally of the United Nations, to bring stability and peace to those countries. In Europe, in relation to Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are worried about the continuation of hostilities and hope for a peaceful solution to the conflict. The Nicaraguan Government greets with approval the Joint Statement and Agreed Basic Principles, signed recently by Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Yugoslavia. To end, I wish to say that today more than ever, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, Nicaragua and the majority of the peoples of the world put our confidence in our Organization, since we consider that the time has come for the United Nations to assume fully its responsibilities under the Charter. Nicaragua is ready, in its current conditions of peace and harmony, to support this new vision of the United Nations, also based on a new vision of democracy. It is a great honour for me to speak on behalf of my delegation, since my Foreign Minister is currently campaigning in the impending presidential and parliamentary elections. Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the historic fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. You bring to this office a wealth of experience and rich intellectual and diplomatic skill which assure us of a fruitful conclusion of the work before the session. And, above all, my delegation applauds your sensitivity to development issues. A well-deserved tribute is also due to your distinguished predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, the Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, who successfully presided over the forty-ninth session. At this juncture, I would like to pay tribute to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose indefatigable efforts in the search for peace and development are very well appreciated by my Government and the people of Tanzania. We also salute the selfless efforts and commitment of the overwhelming majority of the Secretariat staff in the service of the international community. My delegation wishes to reiterate Tanzania’s firm conviction that the United Nations is all of us - its Members. It does not exist apart from us, nor should it be used by one Member or group of Members to the detriment of the wishes and hopes of the international community. It can do only what we, its Members, are prepared to do, acting together. This is not to say that our Organization is perfect and sacrosanct, and therefore beyond criticism. On the contrary, much as we derive satisfaction from the fact that the United Nations has survived 50 difficult years, there is plenty of scope to re-examine its role, especially now, as we are on the threshold of the next millennium. Work in this direction has already started, and it has been covered in the comprehensive report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization. The 11 report draws our attention to the work under way and what needs to be done about problems which threaten international peace and security. It is up to nation States which are Members of the United Nations to reflect on, and assess the role of, the only universal organization at the disposal of all humankind. Undoubtedly the United Nations has been doing the best possible in the pursuit of the lofty ideals of the Charter — in particular, in regard to maintaining international peace; economic and social advancement for all peoples, and enhancing human rights. While loudly faulted on its peace-keeping role, the silent achievements of the United Nations agencies, including the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the International Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), need not be simply taken for granted. Even in terms of peace-keeping operations, we only need to ask why it was possible to succeed in Namibia, Cambodia, El Salvador, South Africa and Mozambique, and why prospects are now brightening in Angola, under United Nations leadership, while we have not quite succeeded in Somalia, Rwanda or Bosnia and Herzegovina. As I speak, conflicts are raging unabated in the world, especially in parts of Africa, the Balkans and the Caucasus. A lot of work is yet to be done in the area of peace-keeping. Every effort must be made to enhance the capacity of the United Nations along the lines described in the 1992 “An Agenda for Peace” (A/47/277) and its supplement (A/50/60), issued in January this year. The real problem with the United Nations rests with the new post-cold-war era. The promises of peace have eluded us and as a result we are still “in the woods” regarding the international community’s ability to manage non-military transnational issues, including development, environmental degradation and inequalities within and between nations. One point of grave concern to my delegation is that the new world order — if there is order at all — has tended to perpetuate the situation in which the wealthy and powerful nation-States dominate and seek to exert undue influence on the United Nations. Consequently, United Nations reform is urgent and imperative. The thrust of this reform must be to maintain and enhance the democratic values of the Charter of the United Nations and translate them into reality throughout the work of the Organization. We must jealously guard the central role of the General Assembly, in which all Member States, regardless of size or wealth, have an equal say. Careful attention should be given to the functioning of the Security Council. We must ensure that the Council acts within and in accordance with the Charter and that its membership reflects the realities of our times, taking into account the tremendous expansion from 51 Member States in 1945 to 185 in 1995. In welcoming the report of the General Assembly’s Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council, my delegation restates the need to have developing countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean represented in the Council, in terms of both permanent and non-permanent seats. Secondly, not only is transparency in the functioning of the Council necessary, but there must also be a regularized system of reporting to, and consultation with, the General Assembly. Thirdly, the veto power has outlived its usefulness. It should be abolished, since it is a negation of democratic principles to empower any one member, or group of members, to decide on the vital issues of peace and security without due regard to the sensitivity and wishes of the majority. The reform process under way should focus also on restoring the Economic and Social Council to its intended high status as the organ for bringing all international economic and social affairs under the strategic control of the United Nations, and here I refer to Article 63 of the Charter. My delegation believes that the governance of the Bretton Woods institutions should be democratized, along with their internal decision-making mechanisms. Let me conclude the question of reform by quoting the very apt perception of the South Centre: “The opposition to a strong and dynamic United Nations is political and profoundly ideological, and is largely concentrated in a few States whose establishments prefer not to strengthen a forum in which their domestic and global policies can be challenged or trimmed. But the United Nations exists for all humankind, not just a handful of Member States representing a small minority of the 12 world’s population ... . This is not a time for despair but for determined efforts to rekindle the United Nations original inspirations and to inject a new sense of purposeful direction ... to help fulfil the aspirations of many millions of people throughout the world.” The financing of the United Nations by Member States is also badly in need of reform. As we meet here, our Organization is on the brink of bankruptcy. As of early August, unpaid assessed contributions stood at $3.9 billion. My delegation is in agreement with the Secretary-General when he laments that “there is no use talking about reshaping the responsibilities of the United Nations unless the resources are there to carry out those responsibilities”. It is urgent that action be taken to make good on late payments of assessed contributions, for both the regular budget and peace-keeping operations, without any preconditions. Having said that, my delegation believes that, on the one hand, the principle of financing the United Nations should be on the basis of relative capacity to pay, and secondly, that other options should be explored that would lessen overdependence on the policy inclinations of a few Members. I should like now to turn to conflicts closest to the heart of the Government and people of Tanzania: the situations in neighbouring Rwanda and Burundi. It is heartening to note that the situation in Rwanda is gradually returning to normal following the end of genocide and the fratricidal war of July 1994. Tanzania, in the true spirit of good-neighbourliness, salutes the new government’s efforts to consolidate peace, rebuild State institutions and make national reconciliation a reality on the basis of the Arusha Peace Agreement. Tanzania, besides facilitating political mediation for the two neighbouring countries, has always readily welcomed Rwandese and Burundi peoples fleeing atrocities in their homelands. The Government is anxious that the now more than one million refugees concentrated in the western part of the country should be assisted to return home as soon as possible, but it should be sooner rather than later. It is a huge burden of immense proportions. My Government is appreciative of the international assistance that is directed to the refugees and to Tanzania. However, the ideal solution is to facilitate their speedy return to their countries of origin so that they may become part of the reconstruction and reconciliation efforts. To do otherwise is to postpone the problem and sow the seeds of future conflicts and mistrust. Worse still, long-term damage to the environment is now a reality. Urgent measures are required to prevent the area of concentration from being stripped bare of trees. Pressure on the already overstretched infrastructure and social services remains overwhelming. This humanitarian catastrophe must not be allowed to go on indefinitely. My Government believes that the reconstruction efforts being put in place must have a component for the return of refugees. No effort should be spared to help the two neighbouring countries create an environment conducive to the return of their peoples. In this connection, we take note of the Secretary- General’s efforts to convene a Great Lakes region conference on security, stability and development, in line with the decisions of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and Security Council. But my Government is of the view that commensurate efforts should first be made to implement the Nairobi and Bujumbura declarations on stability and the situation in the refugee camps. We also urge the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other organizations on the ground to extend to the region the quick impact programmes that are currently being undertaken in Mozambique and Somalia. These programmes are aimed at meeting the reintegration and rehabilitation needs of returnees on their arrival home. Mention should also be made of my Government’s readiness to cooperate in establishing the seat of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda at Arusha in northern Tanzania. The judges have since been appointed, and the Registrar of the Tribunal is already in Tanzania as part of the preparatory team. It is my delegation’s view that an early start of the Tribunal’s proceedings should go a long way towards helping the healing process in Rwanda. Concerning Burundi, we commend the work of the peace mission of the Organization of African Unity and appeal to the leaders of all parties to rise above parochial interests and work in the larger interest of their country, Africa and the world. My delegation is especially encouraged by the positive developments in Angola, which, as we heard from its Foreign Minister when he addressed the current session, is finally headed towards peaceful settlement 13 under the terms of the Lusaka Protocol and the Bicesse Accords. We are also hopeful that the deployment of the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III) will be speeded up, to ensure that the peace process remains on course. Regarding Liberia, we are encouraged by the recent developments by which the OAU and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in particular have secured agreement among faction leaders aimed at a peaceful resolution of the long-simmering civil war. The United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia also deserves our appreciation for its contribution. Consequently, it is our hope that the positive developments in Liberia will impact on the restive situation in neighbouring Sierra Leone. Regrettably, four years on, the international community has yet to implement the United Nations peace plan calling for a referendum in Western Sahara. The parties concerned, Morocco and the Polisario Front, need to summon their political will and, without undue prevarication, cooperate fully with the United Nations in speeding up the process. Africa has received with anger reports of recent mercenary interference in the Comoros. The perpetration of such a dastardly act must not be countenanced by the international community, in particular the United Nations. My delegation supports the OAU call for the speedy and unconditional restoration of the constitutional order in that African country and would also wish to recall the General Assembly’s resolution on the sovereignty of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros over the island of Mayotte. We welcome progress in the Middle East situation. The signing in Washington of the latest agreement between the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization represents an important step towards the implementation of the Declaration of Principles. We hope progress will also be made on the other fronts in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). As for the Balkans, my delegation supports United Nations peace-keeping and other international efforts aimed at finding a lasting solution to the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. We urge all parties to the conflict to invest in a political settlement and to resist the temptation of a military solution. The continuing threat of hunger and poverty to world peace and security cannot be overemphasized. Their impact on the developing countries is made clear by the stagnant or negative rates of economic growth and declining real per capita incomes in most of the South, especially in the least developed countries, including Tanzania. As the Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme said recently: “Poverty is growing faster than population. There are scores of countries where progress is going backwards rather than forwards. Rich countries are not going to be able to build a wall around themselves and shut themselves off. These problems don’t need passports.” Internal and external factors alike have contributed to the underdevelopment of the largest segment of the world. The debt crisis, depressed prices of primary commodities, protectionist measures, the inadequate flow of direct foreign investment and financial and technical assistance, and deteriorating terms of trade are but a few of the factors adversely affecting socio-economic performance in most of these countries. It is with this frustrating situation in mind that we intend to continue participating in the work of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group of this Assembly on An Agenda for Development. It must become a true vehicle for ending poverty the world over. Other supportive United Nations agencies, especially UNCTAD, which will be holding its ninth conference in South Africa next year, and UNIDO should be accorded their due importance by the international community as true instruments of development. During the High-level Intergovernmental Meeting on the Mid-term Global Review of the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, there was some North-South meeting of minds on what Governments ought to do individually and together to reverse the trend of underdevelopment. My Government reaffirmed its commitment to continue implementing socio-economic reforms considered beneficial to our people. Inevitable difficulties aside, the focus is on sectors concerned with agriculture, industry, finance, civil service, trade and privatization. At the same time, we are undertaking political reforms which are essential not only for good governance, but also for the creation of the necessary environment for economic management and sustainable growth. This 14 exercise culminates in the multi-party national elections that will take place towards the end of this month. The understanding and cooperation of our traditional donor countries have been instrumental in supplementing our own efforts. We also count on the international community’s commitment to implement fully existing programmes such as the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the conclusions of a series of United Nations world conferences, including the Fourth World Conference on Women, successfully concluded in Beijing, China, last month. In conclusion, let me refer to two other important developments since the forty-ninth session. First, regarding disarmament, we hope that the controversial indefinite extension last May of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons will lead to total nuclear disarmament and the immediate cessation and complete elimination of nuclear testing. Secondly, we urge the international community to iron out differences over how to constitute the membership of the International Seabed Authority Council, in order to formalize the work of this important instrument, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Finally, my delegation is privileged to be a part of this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly, whose work should further reaffirm our commitment to multilateralism. We look forward to celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations later this month, when we will be called upon to reflect together on how best to equip our Organization on the eve of the twenty-first century. Nevertheless, it is important to bear constantly in mind the fact that, for developing countries and especially the least developed among them, it is not a time of rejoicing. I can do no better than to quote the address of my President, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, in which he said: “A supportive international environment is crucial if we are to attain sustained economic growth in developing countries, especially in the least developed ones. The United Nations must be able to play a much greater role in this matter because, unlike the Bretton Woods institutions, the United Nations is universal; its programmes operate everywhere; and it does not ignore countries.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth session, Plenary Meetings, 16th meeting, p. 5) Mr. President, may I congratulate you on your election and express my deep satisfaction at seeing a representative of Portugal, an ally and a valued member of the international community, occupy the presidency of the General Assembly in our fiftieth anniversary year. Anniversaries are occasions to celebrate past accomplishments. The towering achievement of the United Nations is to have survived through nearly half a century where power relationships often submerged the high-minded vision of the United Nations Charter. Therefore, as we celebrate the half-century of our Organization, we also celebrate the triumph of hope over despair and of good faith over cynicism. At long last, there is an opportunity for the United Nations to come into its own and for the ideals of the Charter to take hold. At the same time, we must learn from our mistakes. Foremost, in that context, is the tragic conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In spite of the laudable humanitarian and peace-keeping efforts of the United Nations, the Organization has in the eyes of the world appeared incapable of preventing the savage dismembering of a sovereign Member State. Although we all realize that the United Nations can never provide foolproof insurance against evil and injustice, the Organization must in the future face such challenges in a more resolute manner. We must demand more of ourselves and learn how to use more effectively the indispensable machinery the Organization has to offer. We should also bear in mind that no organization, however efficient, can provide a substitute for the political will of its Member States. Recent setbacks should, however, not be allowed to obscure the considerable gains, global and regional, that have been made on a number of fronts over the past year. Let me mention only a few. The march of democracy has continued through the organization of free elections in different parts of the world, and a growing number of people now live under pluralistic and democratic Governments. In recent years, the Organization has contributed to the success of elections in various Member States. Two major United Nations Conferences took place earlier this year. Each could, if followed up in earnest, make a tangible difference in the lives of people everywhere. At the World Summit on Social Development in Copenhagen in March, we decided to place people at the centre of development and to address the problem of global poverty more effectively. At the recently concluded Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, we pledged to empower women and to involve them as equal partners in all spheres of society. Together, women and men can and should create a powerful unity based on equality, development and peace. In the area of international law, the achievements of the United Nations were once again brought into focus with the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea last November and the adoption in August of the Agreement on the 16 Implementation of the Provisions of the Convention relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. In May, a historic step was taken towards ridding the world of the threat of nuclear weapons. The decision by the Parties to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty to extend the Treaty indefinitely and without conditions should pave the way for a comprehensive and verifiable test ban and an agreement to cut off the production of fissile material. It is regrettable that China and France have not heeded the worldwide demand for a moratorium on nuclear testing. At the regional level there have also been welcome developments. While the passage has not been smooth, there has been further progress towards a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. We have witnessed the joint efforts of the Israelis and the Palestinians to bring their conflict to an end, and we extend to them our sincere congratulations on their historic agreement to be signed later this week. These are substantial accomplishments. They confirm that hard work, guided by the goals and ideals of the United Nations, can bear fruit. More of that same dedication is now required as the Organization prepares to take on the complex challenges of the twenty-first century. The foremost challenge is the need to establish and safeguard peace. While the threat of nuclear holocaust has receded, we still live in a world riven by wars. Annual military expenditure still nearly equals the total income of the poorer half of the world’s population. The peace dividend we had hoped for in the aftermath of the cold war remains for many a sight unseen. The Secretary-General has rightly observed that there is an inherent link between peace and development. Without the one you cannot have the other. Peace is the necessary precondition for the well-being of all peoples, and in the long run we shall be able to protect ourselves from the scourge of war only if we make the necessary investment in the infrastructure of peace. This involves, among other things, dealing with the legacy of deprivation that still confronts mankind. The challenge of development will not lend itself to a simple formulation in terms of government versus the market-place. Instead, we must apply a comprehensive framework, linking democracy, society, the economy and the environment, carefully nuanced to regional and local circumstances. Here, the Secretary-General has led the way in his ground-breaking report. Let me dwell on a few aspects of the issue of development that are of particular interest to my own country. First a word on the role of democracy. Democracies, it is sometimes said, do not make wars. By promoting democracy we also foster peace. This is in part because two of the main pillars of democracy are tolerance and respect for the customs, traditions and opinions of others. But tolerance and respect for diversity must not be misinterpreted. We live in a world of rich cultural diversity, which we should relish and protect. However, multiculturalism should never be used as a pretext for compromising basic and universal human rights. Iceland attaches continued importance to international efforts to create a global environment conducive to job-led economic growth. But economic growth must never be our sole objective, without regard to human values. Environmental protection is another main concern. Important strides have been made in this area since the Earth Summit in Rio. Climate change and ozone depletion, two major dangers to the global ecosystem, are now being dealt with on the basis of legally binding conventions. But much will depend on coordinated action to implement the commitments we have undertaken. Furthermore, greater attention needs to be devoted to the marine environment. Pollution of the marine environment, if not contained, can have a serious impact on human settlements in certain regions of the world, not least communities of indigenous peoples. In this connection, chemical pollutants in the form of persistent organic substances are of particular concern for entire societies which base their livelihood on the living resources of the sea. Iceland is firmly of the view that this threat can be countered only through a global and legally binding framework similar to that governing climate change and ozone depletion. For this reason, my Government attaches particular importance to the conference on the protection of the marine environment from land-based sources, due to take place in Washington later this year, and we urge Member States to take active part in this conference. Marine living resources can make an important contribution to food security in a world faced with rapid population growth. Such resources provide food and 17 livelihood to millions of people and, if sustainably used, offer increased potential to meet nutritional and social needs, particularly in the developing countries, as noted in a recent report of the Food and Agriculture Organization. For this reason, it is particularly regrettable that close to 70 per cent of the world’s conventional species of fish were, according to the same agency, fully exploited, overexploited or depleted, or are in the process of rebuilding as a result of depletion in the early 1990s. Clearly, the ability to satisfy global demand for food from the sea in the coming years will depend to no small extent on the adoption of responsible fisheries conservation and management policies. We should at all times view the ecosystem of the oceans as a whole and harvest all species of this vast but delicate resource in a sustainable manner. Looked at in this light, the results of the United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, while by no means the final word on this matter, acquire major significance. Let me point out that the law of the sea has been the sphere in which Iceland has been most engaged, beginning in 1949, when, upon a proposal by Iceland, the International Law Commission was given the task of studying all aspects of the law of the sea. Iceland will continue to be active in the implementation of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. We live in an era of growing demand on diminishing natural resources. It is therefore to be welcomed that international cooperation is now gradually extending to the Arctic region, breaking at last through the barrier of what the Icelandic- American explorer Vilhjálmur Stefánsson once referred to as “the ancient inherited opinions about the terrors of the Frozen North”, a “lifeless waste of eternal silence”. The resources of the Arctic are enormous. The nations of the region should develop its potential and work together in the economic, environmental and cultural fields. Therefore, my Government attaches the highest importance to the consultations that have taken place among the Governments of the eight Arctic States to establish the Arctic Council. We have had intensive discussions on changes in the Security Council, including on whether to increase its membership. Iceland is of the view that the fundamental objective of an enlargement of the Council should be to strengthen its capacity to discharge the duties assigned to it. We believe that there should be an increase in the number of both permanent and non-permanent members. In this context, I would like to express my Government’s support for the permanent membership of Germany and Japan in the Security Council. Reform, however, will avail us little if we fail to come to grips with the serious financial situation of the United Nations. Here, I fully share the deep concerns that the Secretary-General has expressed in his comprehensive report on the state of the Organization. According to their obligations under the Charter, the Member States should pay their contributions to the regular budget in full, on time and without condition. If all Member States do not live up to their obligations, we will be forced to take the inevitable political decision to scale back the activities of the Organization. At a time when the services of the United Nations are in greater demand and when the Organization has a better chance of success than ever before, such a step would be highly unfortunate. Instead, let us put the fiftieth anniversary to good use and make the earnest pledge to put the Organization on a sound financial footing. “[Today more then ever we should realize that we are delegations of many countries] to the same Assembly which collectively represents the interests of the world. [We must be] conscious, over and above the interests of our own country, of the interests of the world and of mankind. “Each of us must first of all make an effort to sink our preferences, to put aside our particular sympathies and our particular antipathies. “The fact is that ... we did not succeed in forming a real international spirit. ... If we can create that kind of spirit, and if we can practice what I regard as the two cardinal virtues ... that is to say, good faith and good will, if we are able to apply certain simple but important rules ... we shall succeed. “[In an Assembly like that of the United Nations, we must make a great effort to bridge our various views.] Naturally, we must all watch over the interests of our respective countries, but we shall not succeed unless we are convinced that those interests must take their place in the wider setting of the general interest.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, First Session, Part One, Plenary Meetings, 2nd meeting, p. 48) What I have just said was not written recently. It was not written when we drafted the Belgian statement for the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. It was an extract from the official statement delivered by the President of the General Assembly at its first session, Mr. Paul Henri Spaak, then Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belgium. His appeal, issued at London on 11 January 1946, is as pertinent today as it was then. The United Nations was long paralysed by geopolitical problems posed by the East-West rivalry, but in recent years the Organization has been able increasingly to focus on all aspects of universal society. This is a philosophy that marks a change in global attitude. Human rights, sustainable development, the environment, social change, population questions and the rights of women, to name but a few, have been on the agenda of the major international conferences successfully organized by the United Nations. A precondition for the success of this international approach is that we have the courage to break away from the old taboos and dare for the first time to discuss issues as never before. It is impossible for me here to discuss each and every one of these items, and I shall limit myself to highlighting two of them. I realize that in doing so I may be ignoring so many other problems which are important for the immediate future of our United Nations. I will start with the question of disarmament. In May this year 180 countries agreed to the extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). The five nuclear Powers pledged to reduce further their already greatly reduced arsenals, and all other participants solemnly promised indefinitely never to acquire these weapons, which jeopardize the very existence of the Earth. Belgium urged other non-nuclear- weapon States to accept the indefinite extension of the NPT; I detected the firm will of all signatories to respect the Treaty in letter and spirit. We expect nevertheless that nuclear arsenals will be further reduced. In this context we pin great hopes on the prompt ratification of the START II treaty. Nuclear non- proliferation should be strengthened as soon as possible by the signing next year of a comprehensive test-ban treaty and by a treaty prohibiting the production of fissile material for military use. Those two treaties will provide an indispensable complement to the NPT on the path towards the total nuclear disarmament which Belgium has always desired. The coming negotiations on a comprehensive test- ban treaty will show whether or not the nuclear Powers are willing to accept the zero option, which to my mind is the most important question for the future. In this context Belgium deplores the recent nuclear tests and fervently hopes that the other nuclear-weapon States will maintain their moratoriums. A decision not to conduct any further tests would strongly promote the creation of a propitious atmosphere for the resumption of the negotiations and their successful completion in 1996. On behalf of Belgium, I strongly urge the nuclear-weapon States to desist from all further testing. I have just spoken about what are called weapons of mass destruction, and obviously the threat posed by nuclear and biological weapons is enormous. But we should remember that in fact it is conventional weapons that claim by far the most victims. In cooperation with the European Union, Belgium will play an active role in this field, as we have done in recent months with regard to anti-personnel mines. In this regard my country has been a pioneer, including through the adoption by its Parliament of forward-looking legislation prohibiting the 22 production and use of such weapons in Belgium. In the United Nations we joined in the initiative to hold a special conference in Geneva, over which my country had the honour to preside. Belgium is also aware of the dangers posed by new laser weapons and their horrendous consequences. My country is prepared to adopt an activist policy in this sphere. To my mind, the next priority of the United Nations is social and economic progress. The promotion and protection of human rights are an essential element of this. Our own history shows that respect for human rights and the existence of a State based on law and of political institutions elected and functioning democratically and following the principles of good management are absolute conditions for sustainable development. Yet we cannot say that the results of international cooperation have been altogether positive. Countries both of the South and of the North must ponder this. It makes no sense to speak of peace on Earth if at the same time we cannot pursue the planet’s social and economic development. World-wide overall wealth has increased sevenfold in the past 50 years and international trade has grown even more. But at the same time poverty has never been greater. Furthermore, economic recession and the debt crisis have affected certain sections of the population in developing countries more than others. The inequalities in the distribution of income and wealth have therefore become even greater. To combat this we need to act internationally, if only because of the globalization of the world economy. Intensive multilateral cooperation, including cooperation between the international financial institutions, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the World Trade Organization will be necessary. We must also consider how the population can be involved in the preparation and implementation of reforms. Of prime concern are basic needs. Real social development is impossible if those are not cared for. Belgium is ready to participate in this effort, as it has long done. The Belgian social security system too is marking its fiftieth anniversary. That system is now being questioned, for the unemployment rate has increased dramatically, threatening the financing of the whole system. However, this system remains the best guarantee for preserving the balance between economic development and social development. The State should remain responsible for the provision of the basic needs for all. Belgium therefore calls for the development of a mechanism which allows economic development to go hand in hand with social development. Governments must respect the rights of workers and improve working conditions and the security and health of the workers. The five basic social conventions of the ILO — relating to minimum age for employment, the abolition of slavery, freedom of trade unions, freedom of negotiation and non-discrimination — should be internationally recognized as fundamental conventions, which would provide a concrete impetus for this. The major international conferences organized by the United Nations have proven a useful means of studying basic questions relating to the goal of social emancipation and genuine sustainable development in all countries. In Rio de Janeiro, old concepts of development were replaced by that of sustainable development, which has functioned as a common theme throughout all the other conferences. At the World Conference on Human Rights, in Vienna, a Declaration was adopted which underscored and enriched the universal consensus on the respect due under all circumstances to human beings. It called on all Member States not only to prevent human rights violations, but also to promote those rights. For its part, Belgium was the first country in Europe to adopt a law, in February 1994, linking respect for human rights to development cooperation. The International Conference on Population and Development, held at Cairo, recognized the relationship between the individual’s reproductive and sexual health and the development of every individual and every country. The importance of the World Summit for Social Development, held at Copenhagen, lay above all in its integrated approach to linking the fight against poverty, the creation of jobs, and the promotion of social integration, and in the adoption on that basis of coordinated national and international strategies. It is gratifying also to note the universal consensus on the concepts and issues that will deserve our attention in the future. Finally, the Fourth World Conference on Women, recently held at Beijing, stressed the role of women as full participants in the decision-making process and in economic affairs, by recognizing that genuine sustainable development and true democracy will be impossible without women. 23 The United Nations should make economic and social development its highest priority. It should involve world public opinion in these decisions and should ensure their follow-up and resolutely implement them in the field. Belgium is prepared to reflect the programmes of action of all these conferences in its future policies in the spheres of development cooperation, foreign trade, international finance and in its foreign policy in general. I have laid stress on two areas where the United Nations will play a decisive role. It will be a challenge to us all; the results will not be assessed until the hundredth anniversary of the United Nations. To meet our goal, it is vital for us to strengthen the tool that is the United Nations. The United Nations and its specialized agencies must maintain — and strengthen and adapt — their resources and activities so as to give effect to the decisions and achievements of these conferences. Specifically, duplication must be avoided; rationalization and the possible merging of bodies working in the same field are inevitable. The Economic and Social Council must be rehabilitated; its role could be reviewed. It should be the most suitable body for staging international conferences and, through the United Nations system, should coordinate and supervise the implementation of conventions and programmes. It should also spur interaction among the major agencies and institutions of the United Nations system. The agenda of the General Assembly must be reviewed so that the Assembly can regain its original role as the Organization’s supreme decision-making, deliberative and policy-making body. Security Council reform is the subject of intense debate. Without going into details, I would like to recall Belgium’s view that such reform should strengthen, inter alia, the Council’s capacity for action and its representativity. The Charter gives the Council responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security on behalf of all, and for the benefit of all. Belgium is convinced that the authority of Council decisions would be enhanced if troop- and equipment-contributing countries were more closely involved in the preparation of those decisions. The Organization is facing numerous financial problems. The development of new activities is often hobbled by disagreements on the allocation of costs. There is a growing structural rift between the capacity for multilateral action and the increasingly frequent demands for intervention. How can we prevent the United Nations from becoming a victim of its own success? One fundamental obligation is that every Member State must promptly pay the contribution it has been assessed based on its ability to pay. Non-payment is a serious violation of commitments, and is even more deplorable when certain delinquent contributors are also demanding a special role in the Organization’s policy- and decision-making processes. Finally, we must keep working towards the new international spirit to which I referred at the beginning of my statement. Without such a new awareness in society at large, we shall never be able to make the United Nations into the universal instrument for peace and sustainable development it must be. In that context, I want to close with another quotation from that great statesman, the first President of the General Assembly, Belgian Foreign Minister Paul Henri Spaak, who as early as 1943 said that “The world will never be organized if each State retains its full national sovereignty and the absolute right to resolve its political and economic problems as it sees fit”. It is a pleasant duty for my delegation to welcome the election of Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral to the presidency of the General Assembly at this especially solemn session. He will be presiding over a session which for the first time will hear statements by virtually all the world’s leaders. We are convinced that his experience will guarantee the success of our work. I wish also to convey our appreciation to Ambassador Amara Essy for the exceptional ability and efficiency with which he guided the work of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Nor can I fail to convey to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, my Government’s gratitude for his tenacious efforts for peace during a time when his outstanding diplomatic talents have been put to a hard test. Any institution tends to shape its own life, which is not always consistent with previous models. Thus, however much those who carry out the provisions of a founding document may venerate that document, they cannot prevent an organization from transcending to some 45 extent the founders’ original wishes. Moreover, the older the founding document the greater the disparities between the original conception and the institution’s functioning and practices. Obviously, the great changes that have taken place and the new hopes for the end of a century can only intensify this phenomenon. For the United Nations to have escaped this trend would have been impossible, especially when it was dictated by circumstances. A half century has passed since the founding of the United Nations; none of the founders could have imagined the spectacular, dizzying changes that have come about since the San Francisco conference. We must remember that, as a legal constitutional instrument, the Charter needs a contemporary purpose-oriented interpretation in order to be properly understood. With respect to the operational activities of the Organization in the economic and social spheres, few could have thought in 1945 that these would have acquired their present scope. Nor would anyone have thought that Article 2 (7) of the Charter would permit the Organization to become a legitimate champion of respect for human rights throughout the world. We pay a well deserved tribute to the extraordinary skill of the representatives of Member States in devising negotiated formulas that have made it possible to snatch from what seemed to be imminent failure global agreements of great importance — and all the more sound for their having been achieved through a balanced consensus. Although we might have certain reservations about some specific elements of the functioning of the Organization, in general my Government hails the United Nations system’s great ability to adapt to circumstances as it addresses problems calmly and with realism. While we pay tribute to these noteworthy virtues of adaptability, productive pragmatism and the ability to scale high political hurdles, our admiration should not blind us to the need for reform, a need we are already beginning to face up to. Such reform would enable us to remove the Organization’s failings and shortcomings and thus make it more efficient and democratic so it can resist the unilateral practices that would supplant it. Among the most striking features of today’s world are nearly incredible disparities and paradoxes. Although speaking of these is a commonplace here, we cannot fail to note that the wealth of most inhabitants of a tiny minority of countries is in marked contrast to the great difficulties and deprivation endured by three quarters of the inhabitants of the planet, who are prevented from competing on the international market, even with their commodities, by administrative restrictions, subsidies and discriminatory policies. There are places where the most sophisticated products of modern technology are the common tools of the worker; there are other places where you can travel great distances without seeing any technology more advanced than that used in biblical times. It is hardly necessary to note the contrast between the extreme poverty of so many human beings and the vast expenditures on weapons. As to democracy and human rights, we acknowledge the increasing world awareness of those ideals — although we share concerns about the relativism with which they are applied and about the way they are used to exert political pressure and even to trade in influence. It will unquestionably be necessary to overcome those contradictions. We are sure that if that goal is achieved, even partially, the credit will belong largely to the United Nations, which by the terms of Article 1 of the Charter is “a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of ... common ends”. No Guatemalan can hear or utter the word that is at the very core of this Organization — “peace” — without immediately thinking of the most important problem besetting my country. Because of a fratricidal struggle promoted largely by a cold war that was alien to us, a struggle that for more than 30 years harmed thousands of families, endangered democracy and unleashed human rights violations by parties to the conflict, today the most fervent desire of the people of Guatemala can only be reconciliation and a firm and lasting peace. If this has not yet been achieved, it is not because of any lack of effort, patience and great tolerance by the democratic Government and, as is known, by the international community, which has acted principally through the Group of Friends and through the United Nations, specifically through the Secretary-General. The Government of Guatemala thanks all who have contributed to the functioning of the machinery set up to help further our national goal of peace, reconciliation and development, especially the Secretary-General, the Guatemala Unit of the Department of Political Affairs, the United Nations Moderator and the United Nations 46 Mission for the Verification of Human Rights and of Compliance with the Commitments of the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights in Guatemala. We are also grateful to the six Governments that form the Group of Friends of the peace process in Guatemala for their invaluable contribution to this arduous and painstaking work. The Government of Guatemala has spared no effort to realize the aspiration of our entire nation to bring an end to internal armed conflict. In the sphere of human rights, the Government of President Ramiro de León Carpio is facing a situation deriving from the armed confrontation that has gripped our country for three decades, so the tasks before us are intimately linked with peace-building. This prompted President de León Carpio to sign the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights of 29 March 1994, by which he reaffirmed his commitment to principles and norms aimed at guaranteeing and protecting full observance of human rights by the parties, and his political will to ensure that those principles and norms are respected. As a result of that Agreement, the United Nations Mission for the Verification of Human Rights and of Compliance with the Commitments of the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights in Guatemala (MINUGUA) was set up in our country. It has been accorded the fullest facilities and guarantees for its activities on our territory. The implementation of some of the recommendations of MINUGUA has met with difficulties owing to institutional limitations; we are endeavouring to resolve these, although it must be recognized that some provisions do not have the impetus that would secure compliance in the short term. Also, a Counsel for Human Rights is now at work in my country; this is a post formerly filled by President de León Carpio. This office retains and is enhancing its prestige within the country and its international credibility. The Presidential Human Rights Committee (COPREDEH) is making ever greater efforts to ensure that the recommendations are duly complied with. Reflecting my Government’s political will, there are also preventive mechanisms to avoid human rights violations. I turn now to the process of Central American integration, which gave rise to the signing of the Tegucigalpa Protocol to the Charter of the Organization of American States. The Central American Integration System (SICA), founded as an intergovernmental organization, has been working successfully since the beginning of 1993 with the purpose of strengthening integration in the economic, social, cultural and political spheres. Guatemala hopes that — bearing in mind the importance of the Central American Integration System, which encompasses virtually all activities of the Governments of its member States and which covers a contiguous area of some 425,000 square kilometres inhabited by nearly 30 million people — the General Assembly will accede to the request made by Guatemala along with the other members of the System and Panama to grant SICA observer status in the General Assembly. The Central American region founded the Alliance for Sustainable Development to strengthen integration based on democracy, improvement of the quality of life, respect for and development of the vitality and diversity of the land, and the multicultural and multiethnic nature of our isthmus. We supported the establishment of the Association of Caribbean States, and we are participating in the World Trade Organization; these, we feel, are proper forums to foster values that enrich society and promote fair rules of trade. For similar reasons we shall attend the Ibero-American summit to take place at Bariloche, Argentina, and the summit of non-aligned countries to be held at Cartagena, Colombia. We will be at the upcoming Tuxtla II meeting and at talks between Central America and other countries and regional groupings. Recently, we attended the Fourth World Conference on Women, where my delegation supported recommendations promoting the material and moral advancement of women in keeping with ethical concepts that respect women and grant them dignity and participation with the right to complete equality. Our contribution to United Nations efforts towards the democratic rehabilitation of Haiti have taken the form of a contingent of army specialists in peaceful operations. This is the moment to refer to Guatemala’s contribution to two important General Assembly initiatives with respect to the development of legal principles set out in the Charter: the well known Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, which was adopted by the Assembly on the occasion of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the entry into force of the Charter, and which my country introduced on behalf of its 41 sponsors; and our second contribution aimed at promoting the use of conciliation as one of the means of peaceful settlement of disputes between States set out in Article 33 of the Charter. Guatemala submitted the first 47 version of these proposed rules to the General Assembly in 1990. At its 1995 session, the Ad Hoc Committee on the Charter endorsed the final version of the proposed rules by consensus and recommended that the General Assembly bring them to the attention of States. Consistent with our devotion to law and firmly convinced of the benefits of peace and the importance of mutual cooperation, Guatemala gives priority to the peaceful settlement of disputes. Hence, in connection with the territorial dispute with Belize, my country hopes that there will be a decisive solution through a more realistic, constructive and forward-looking dialogue, unconstrained by any limits other than the principles of good faith and the dignity of the parties. Guatemala is vastly pleased at the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and at the fact that this was achieved through a truly historic decision, without a vote. Together with our satisfaction at the indefinite extension of the Treaty, we also feel pride, because Latin America is the least heavily armed region in the world and, thanks to the Treaty of Tlatelolco, is the only region that has become a nuclear- weapon-free zone forever. We regret the resumption of nuclear testing and therefore urge the adoption of new initiatives to forge a new world order that would eliminate nuclear weapons and in which security would be overseen by international institutions sustaining the force of law. That is why my delegation is among the sponsors of a draft resolution to be submitted to the General Assembly by States parties and signatories of the Treaty of Tlatelolco and the Treaty of Rarotonga. Guatemala has had the tragic and painful experience of the laying of mines by outlaw groups, and we vigorously condemn the use of mines and support all proposals intended to prohibit them. We note with satisfaction that the Middle East peace process is moving forward. Guatemala hopes that wisdom will prevail, which after so many decades of struggle and violence will make it possible for peace to reign forever in a land of such deep significance to three great religions. Guatemala is pleased that greater use is now being made of the International Court of Justice than ever before. We are pleased too at the wide geographical range of the cases before what can rightly be known as a World Court. Recalling the precedent-setting creation of a Central American international court, which is now being restored, my country will venture to propose the candidature of an experienced Guatemalan jurist for a seat on the International Court of Justice; we are convinced that he could make a most important contribution to the work of the Court. Following careful consideration of the items on the agenda of the World Summit for Social Development, Guatemala participated in that conference with the greatest interest and with high hopes; the Summit was addressed by President de León Carpio. We are convinced that unless the fundamental principle of universality is fully observed, our Organization will be unable fully to attain its purposes. We therefore urge consideration of the situation of the Republic of China in Taiwan so that this country may have a forum in which to discuss its future peacefully with its historical brethren. Fifty years after post-war statesmen conceived the plan for a world organization intended to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, poverty and ignorance, we must be optimistic in our assessment of the results, for they have saved the world from the irreparable harm of total conflagration. Although it is true that at times the cold war flared up in local armed conflicts encouraged by the rivalry between opposing super-Powers which at the time seemed irreconcilable, today we breathe a more tranquil atmosphere with respect to military security. But that atmosphere is less secure with respect to cooperation for development, because the rules of the economic order sometimes forget that economic weakness is not only an internal matter for States but is also a responsibility for those who have achieved a more than dignified standard of living and who have an obligation to transfer resources and technology for the sake of world-wide justice. We close with the well known phrase of His Holiness Pope John Paul II, which we invite members to ponder: “The new name for peace is development”. Allow me first of all to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. Your election is a clear recognition of the high esteem your country justly enjoys as an important link between different cultures and continents. This in turn has enabled Portugal to become an active partner of those countries, like Bulgaria, that are progressing towards democracy and a market economy within a united Europe. In today’s world of profound change the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is of significance above all as a vantage point from which to try to develop a vision for the future. Situated at the historical crossroads of nations and civilizations, Bulgaria today is seeking both to contribute to the successful redefinition of the United Nations role in the world of tomorrow and to ensure its own national security and wellbeing. The role of the United Nations should be above all to build upon the enhanced capacity of the Organization in three crucial spheres of its activities, namely, conflict settlement and peace-keeping, post-conflict peace-building, and the laying of durable foundations for lasting peace. Today we all recognize the emergence of a great number of new challenges to peace and security marked by extraordinary diversity and complexity. The conflict still raging in the former Yugoslavia has been a traumatic test of the key United Nations responsibility for conflict settlement and peace-keeping. The disappointments in this regard have been many and profound; yet we should all face up to the simple truth that our Organization can be only as effective as a guarantor of peace as we Member countries wish and permit it to be. Bulgaria has from the outset strictly adhered to policies supporting a peaceful settlement under United Nations auspices. Unilaterally, it has adopted and consistently abided by the principle of non-interference in the conflict. It has chosen not to become involved, either directly or indirectly, in any type of military activities on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, including participation in United Nations peace-keeping. We have called upon the other countries in the region to exercise the same restraint. On the other hand, throughout the conflict Bulgaria has supported every international initiative aimed at achieving a peaceful, balanced, just and comprehensive solution. In keeping with its obligations under the United Nations Charter and as a means of restarting negotiations, Bulgaria has consistently implemented the international sanctions regime. This step was taken on the basis of a national consensus that, despite the heavy burden such sanctions created for Bulgaria, it was our duty to implement them as a dependable member of the international community. Yet Bulgaria has sustained debilitating losses as a result of the sanctions. Over the past few years, we have repeatedly drawn attention to this problem, both as it concerns Bulgaria and as it concerns cooperation with other affected States. The sanction-induced losses so far amount to well over 25 per cent of Bulgaria’s estimated gross domestic product for 1995. This has made Bulgaria by far the country most seriously affected. Bulgaria’s policies favouring a peaceful outcome have helped to establish it as a stabilizing factor in a most deeply troubled region of Europe. At the same time, we feel that such recognition also contributes to enhancing the peace- making potential of the United Nations itself. Positive interaction between the policies of individual Member States and the decisions and measures of the world Organization is the decisive factor in enhancing the latter’s key mission, that of helping to settle conflicts and keep the peace. However, Bulgaria’s experience also shows that in order to discharge this mission successfully in the future the United Nations needs carefully to rethink its main peace- keeping instruments, such as economic sanctions and peace- keeping missions. In areas outside its immediate vicinity Bulgaria has in recent years contributed ground forces and civilian and police observers. In the operation in Cambodia, generally considered a success, several young Bulgarians lost their lives. We sympathize with other countries that have sustained human losses in subsequent missions, including the latest in the former Yugoslavia. We therefore strongly support the view that there is a need to reform and improve the ways in which such missions are planned and executed, with priority given to enhancing the safety of United Nations personnel. Recently, mediation between parties to a given conflict has been successfully utilized in the discharge of United Nations conflict-settlement missions. In this context, we welcome the agreement reached between neighbouring Greece and the Republic of Macedonia as a most important step towards lessening tensions in the whole of southeastern Europe. A further major contribution in this regard should be active United Nations support for and collaboration in bringing to a successful conclusion the present intensive efforts to attain peace in Bosnia. Bulgaria welcomes the United States peace initiative and the efforts to implement it in close cooperation with the United Nations and the countries in the Contact Group. This has opened up real possibilities for a negotiated settlement of the conflict. Experience derived from the Yugoslav crisis highlights the importance of another crucial United Nations function, namely, post-conflict peace-building. Today, it is obvious that although negotiations have not yet achieved a final settlement there is a need to begin to address the problems of post-conflict peace-building without delay. One set of such problems concerns the reduction of the levels of armaments and armed forces. It is clear that conflict settlement would be pointless were it not accompanied by a set of actions designed to remove the sources of real or potential security threats in the area. Thus, in the arms-control field Bulgaria shares the view that the establishment of a future harmonized arms- control regime in Europe should combine measures of both a pan-European and a regional character. Such measures should be based on the understanding that security must be indivisible and that any disproportionate concentration of armaments, in particular when coupled with a lack of control mechanisms, undermines security and stability. Therefore, the establishment of a credible system of arms control and confidence- and security- building measures for the territory of the former Yugoslavia, as part of and in line with the pan-European regimes, must be an essential part of a comprehensive post-war settlement. Relevant international bodies such as the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) should play a very important role in this respect. The main objective should 2 be to attain levels of armaments that will preclude once and for all any temptation to use force. The second set of peace-building measures concerns post-conflict economic reconstruction and stabilization. Important work has been done at the United Nations in the past several years for developing an integrated approach to successfully implementing reconstruction programmes. Such an approach should encompass four interrelated aspects: strategic issues of reconstruction, needs and capabilities, post-conflict reconstruction framework and mobilization of resources. Today plans for reconstruction are being laid for parts of the conflict area in the former Yugoslavia. Bulgaria is particularly well placed to contribute to such plans. This is so for a number of reasons: first, its long-standing relationship with the countries in and around the conflict area and its consistent policies in favour of a balanced and durable political settlement; secondly, because of the experience and know-how of Bulgarian companies with a long record of practical work in the area; thirdly, acquired knowledge and expertise in working with international financial institutions in implementing programmes for reconstruction and development. For all these reasons, Bulgaria could be an important factor contributing to the success of any reconstruction effort in the area. The emerging pattern of structured coordination between various organizations within and outside the United Nations system provides guidelines and a very useful example to follow. It encourages our own thinking as we start exploring practical and institutional possibilities for contributing to the concerted international efforts in this respect. At the same time, Bulgaria has every reason to expect also to receive a part of the international post-conflict assistance for the region. Effectively building the peace in the region requires that neighbouring countries that bore the brunt of sanctions and have sustained inordinate losses be included on a priority basis in the list of recipients of international assistance. Bulgaria’s concerns over the subject of sanctions have already become well known. We have formulated them in extenso on several occasions. In fact, the international community and, in particular, the General Assembly have recognized the right and the need to include non-target third countries in programmes for reconstruction and development. At its two previous sessions, on Bulgarian initiatives, the General Assembly adopted by consensus two resolutions on this set of issues. This year again, my delegation intends to submit a corresponding draft resolution which I hope will receive universal support. At this point, I cannot but underline the findings and recommendations contained in the report (A/50/60) of the Secretary-General entitled “Supplement to An Agenda for Peace” and, in particular, his conclusion that the price of sanctions implementation should be borne equally by all Member States and not only by those who have had the misfortune of being neighbours or important economic partners of a sanctions target country. I would like to take this opportunity to commend especially the efforts of His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali in this particularly important field of United Nations activities. It is our view that, as a result of work already done, today there exists a significant scope of agreement on the ways and means for overcoming the specific economic problems confronting the affected States, as reflected in part IV of resolution 47/120 and resolutions 48/210 and 49/21 A of the General Assembly. Bulgaria is participating, and will continue to do so, in an effort to help towards the successful completion of the discussion on these issues in the United Nations. Together with conflict settlement and post-conflict peace-building, a third, parallel line of action should be undertaken without delay. It should focus on laying durable foundations for lasting peace through economic and social development. The task of achieving durable stability and security regarding peace and economic development has always been of particular relevance in South-Eastern Europe. It has become all the more so in the light of evolving European integration. In order to boost such development and lasting stability, there is an urgent need for concerted efforts by the international organizations and specialized agencies within the United Nations system, coupled with broader and more intensive cooperation at a regional level. It is doubtless necessary to avoid overlapping and duplication. Yet a mechanism must be put in place for effectively coordinating programmes for early implementation of achievable objectives. The Ministerial Conference on environment for Europe, which is going to be held in Sofia the last week of this October, is a particularly apt example of this approach. Another initiative along these lines is the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe 3 (OSCE) seminar on the role of trans-European infrastructure for stability and cooperation in the Black Sea region, which will also take place in Sofia, a month later. It will be dealing with priority projects for developing regional transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure as factors both for economic growth and for lasting stability and peace in the area. The above forums could provide valuable inputs for the work undertaken within the European Union with the aim of elaborating a comprehensive regional strategy for South-Eastern Europe. Such a strategy could be based on the approach embodied in the measures accompanying the Pact on Stability in Europe, put forward at the time by the Union. Cooperation at the subregional level may also prove to be a factor of significant practical importance in this context. For its part, Bulgaria, in the course of the past several months, has attempted to develop thinking and proposals for regional stability, security and cooperation which could interact with initiatives and programmes developed by European and international institutions and major world partners. It is our belief that developing the economic dimensions of regional security will greatly favour the overcoming of local tensions rooted in the past, as well as the full-fledged implementation of the basic principles of relations between States under the Helsinki Act and the Paris Charter. With a view to promoting such regional cooperation, I would like to state from this lofty rostrum that Bulgaria is ready to host a gathering of interested Central and South- Eastern European States at the governmental level in the course of 1996. Given careful preparation and the support of the international community, such a high-level meeting could become a major step towards lasting security and stability in a historically much-troubled part of Europe. The parameters of the new international system are still taking shape today. What is positive is that in the days of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations the international community is looking for pragmatic and responsible approaches to lend new meaning to the Organization’s mission. The discussion of the possibilities of and prospects for United Nations restructuring can draw on the accumulated wealth of experience and take advantage of the prevailing spirit of cooperation. Let us make the best possible use of them and together venture into the new century stronger, wiser and more united. Allow me to convey to the President of the General Assembly the congratulations of the Government and people of Bolivia upon his election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. He can be assured that my delegation will cooperate with him to ensure the full success of this important session. The commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the entry into force of the United Nations Charter affords a fresh opportunity for critical and renewed reflection on the scope, difficulties and role of the multilateral system. During the year 1995 important meetings of universal scope have taken place, such as the World Summit on Social Development, the Fourth World Conference on Women, and the Review and Extension Conference on the Treaty on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Those meetings, together with others of a bilateral, subregional or regional character — notably the Hemispheric Summit in Miami — show that the principles which presided over the creation of the United Nations are still very much alive, and demonstrate the need to make significant further headway in promoting peace, human rights, democracy, and economic and social development. Meetings at the highest level of the world’s political leaders and their representatives, ready to assume undertakings on issues of such significance, are indicative of a strong political will and reveal an interest in finding concrete collective responses to the problems of our time. As a result of those Conferences, the world community has at hand new approaches that enrich and strengthen prior agreements as it seeks to cope successfully with contemporary challenges. For example, social development and recognition of the due role of women in society have ceased to be mere promises; they are becoming definite realities before the end of this century. The International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People will make it possible for priority attention to be given to that important sector of the community. The end of the cold war has not released the material and human resources that were committed to that contest. Nor has it freed our minds of concern over war and destruction. There persist negative situations and prejudices, which were born during that period when the world was divided into antagonistic blocs, and which no longer have any justification. The long-awaited peace dividend has not been forthcoming; on the contrary, we see a proliferation of conflicts in many parts of the world. Many of these situations are due to still unresolved social and national problems, to a backlog of injustices and long-standing resentments, to geopolitical and economic interests which, from within and from outside, have exacerbated confrontation for decades, and, above all, to Governments’ difficulties in defining an effective form of cooperation for the peaceful solution of problems. In this context, we reiterate our support for the principles and the renewed objectives of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, whose chairmanship is shortly to be assumed by the sister republic of Colombia. We feel a sense of solidarity with the peoples of the former Yugoslavia, who are enduring the torment of an unjustifiable war. We also express our solidarity with the millions of human beings affected by military conflict, unilateral blockades, hindrances to free contact with the outside world, and by having been uprooted from their lands. We reiterate what the Heads of State or Government of the Rio Group stated at their recent summit meeting in Quito: “We express our concern over attempts to enforce domestic laws beyond territorial boundaries in violation of international law and the fundamental principles governing coexistence in the region. Such actions violate the sovereignty of other States and are contrary to unanimously adopted transparent trade practices”. (A/50/425, annex, para. 13) Bolivia expresses its condemnation of grave violations of international law, war crimes, violations of the fundamental rules of coexistence, manifestations of racism, and other offenses against humanity, all of which should be vigorously condemned. The work of the United Nations in this field has been important, but it needs to be further refined. In that work, the role of regional and subregional organizations for cooperation and coordination is essential and should gain greater importance in years to come. These organizations include 26 the Organization of American States, the Rio Group and the various regional and subregional instruments of economic integration, to which my Government lends its full support. We rejoice that Haiti and other countries have made firm strides towards peace and democratic governance. Likewise, Bolivia notes with particular interest, and commends, the peace process in the Middle East, whose advances in the face of difficulties give us cause to be optimistic and to hope for reconciliation through the fashioning of innovative solutions with a distinctive explicit political content. The agreement signed yesterday between Israel and Palestine is an example of determination and vision of historic proportions. Bolivia has expressed its rejection of the resumption of nuclear tests, which jeopardize negotiations towards the speedy adoption of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. We condemn terrorism and organized crime, whose scope and reach cut across national boundaries and which thus threatens security and constitutional stability everywhere. Bolivia has signed several bilateral treaties intended to advance international cooperation on legal matters within a framework of strict respect for sovereignty, but at the same time closing off avenues to impunity for international crime. As our awareness of the rights and duties of multilateral interdependence grows, cooperation in achieving the inherent right to development of all the world’s peoples should come to the fore. In the new international situation, Bolivia supports initiatives aimed at strengthening the United Nations and shares the conviction that it is necessary to carry out major reforms in its structure and functioning. Bolivia believes it essential as a first step in that direction to strengthen the General Assembly as the principal organ providing for effective participation by all countries. My Government supports initiatives aimed at expanding the Security Council, in both its permanent and its non-permanent membership. Such an expansion should reflect the diversity of the world’s regions and enable all States to participate effectively and responsibly in the commitment to guarantee peace, security and the timely settlement of conflicts, in a transparent manner and in keeping with the interests of the international community, not only in the narrow framework of the individual interests of States. I also highlight the importance we attach to the United Nations in the area of international cooperation, especially in the economic sphere and on matters of social and technological development, and the urgency of restoring to the Economic and Social Council the high stature it originally possessed. The principles of justice and international law must be our main guiding light in seeking solutions to the problems we face. With regard to Bolivia’s maritime question, which we have brought before international forums, I wish to declare to this Assembly the political will of my Government to embark upon negotiations that are consonant with our historic responsibility, that serve the rights and interests of all parties involved, and that ensure a sovereign Bolivian presence on the Pacific Ocean. Bolivia has to contend with the consequences of the land- locked position imposed upon it, the economic, political and moral effects of which demand a solution in the framework of international solidarity, justice, equity and law. Just as countries call for international justice, we are obliged also to apply that principle within our own societies. That is the golden rule of the Administration of President Gonzalo Sánchez de Losada. Our message is one of change. Never before in the history of our republic have such profound and rapid structural changes been democratically and peacefully carried out as those that began in Bolivia in August 1993. First, we are implementing the law on the people’s participation, which is integrating civil society into the political system. Traditionally disadvantaged populations now have in their hands the ability to diagnose their problems and to prescribe public policy, especially regarding self-help to meet their own needs. This is essentially a policy of redistribution, which enables a large part of the nation fully to assume their status as citizens. Secondly, the foregoing requires training the people so that they will be able to meet internal and external challenges. To that end, another reform undertaken by President Gonzálo Sánchez de Lozada’s administration is educational reform, viewed specifically in the light of Bolivia’s ethnic and cultural diversity and with the aim of institutionalizing bilingual and multicultural education. 27 Thirdly, I am pleased to inform this Assembly that capital investment in Bolivia’s main public enterprises is moving forward successfully and strongly. We are transforming the largest productive and service units of the country to enable them to double their capital in the space of a few months, modernize their management in accordance with the requirements of international life, and secure a series of real benefits for the Bolivian population, making possible individual investment by citizens of 50 per cent of the share capital. Such initiatives represent an effort to make Bolivia equal to contemporary demands, especially those resulting from the international economy, which is characterized by great dynamism, innovation and competitiveness. International economic cooperation is indispensable and should enjoy the firm political backing of developed countries and international financial institutions. For that reason my country expresses concern about the declining and negative trends of some sources of cooperation and financing. This situation is especially disturbing when seen in the light of the fact that Bolivia has to contend in its territory with a universal problem — namely, illicit drug trafficking. It is paradoxical — to say the least — to urge an increase in Bolivia’s contribution and in Bolivia’s tasks in that common struggle precisely at a time when cooperation resources are decreasing. The task at hand is simultaneously to fulfil the commitments in the struggle against drug trafficking and to prepare to embark on genuine sustainable development, especially in the rural sector, where the most acute poverty exists. Given the magnitude of the tasks falling to Bolivia in this matter, strong backing from the international community is needed for Bolivia’s national strategy in regard to interdiction, prevention, the eradication of surplus crops, and alternative development. That contribution is essential to Bolivia’s effort to cease being a link in the drug-trafficking chain and, at the same time, ensure political and economic stability and promote development of the country’s productive apparatus. With a view to consolidating the vision of shared responsibility with regard to the problem of drug- trafficking, the nations of the Americas support the holding of a world conference to take stock of the situation and the state of international cooperation in the struggle against demand for and production, sale, trafficking and illicit distribution of narcotics. In that context, Bolivia actively advocates the holding in 1977 of a second international conference against drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking, under the aegis of the United Nations. Before concluding, I must refer to the topic of sustainable development. We must stimulate vigorous and sustained economic growth, with social equity, in conditions that protect and make efficient use of natural resources and ensure rational distribution of the fruits of that growth. Henceforth, we must adopt a mode of development that is nurtured by technological advances designed to curb the waste and pollution that have characterized industrialized societies. Accordingly, it is with special satisfaction that I announce to this Assembly that in the latter half of next year Bolivia will have the privilege of hosting, in the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, the American Hemispheric Summit on Sustainable Development. We hope that the ideas and proposals that emerge from that important meeting will contribute to the development of our countries and to better preservation of the environment in this part of the world. It is a great pleasure and, indeed, an honour for me, to convey to the General Assembly the fond greetings of the people of Guinea, its Government and its President, General Lansana Conté, at the opening of this session, which so fortuitously coincides with the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization. The President returned to the Chair. I am very pleased to extend to you, Mr. President, my warm congratulations on your brilliant election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. Your election and the outstanding efforts by your country, Portugal, within this great family of nations, are a cause of satisfaction to my delegation. I believe that with your experience and your abilities as a great diplomat, you will guide our deliberations with great success. I would join other delegations in paying a well- deserved tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy of the sister Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, whose dynamism and great qualities as a sophisticated diplomat helped us move forward as our Organization sought answers to the challenges facing our world today. Also, I would here extend my Government’s appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the enormous amount of work he has done and for the resolve and wisdom that he demonstrates in seeking solutions to all the fundamental issues, 16 particularly those relating to peace, security, development and democracy throughout the world. I should like to congratulate the people of Palau on their admission to membership in the United Nations as the 185th Member State. The presence of their delegation here with us confirms once more the universality of our Organization. It is clear that the last few years of this century are being played out against a background of crisis and conflict, creating an impression of uncertainty as to the future of the human race. But we must recognize that the international community has made considerable efforts in preparing global strategies for peace and security throughout the world, taking into account the environment, sustainable development, the emancipation of women and the protection of children. Despite these efforts, many parts of the world, sorely tried by poverty and backwardness, do not yet have sufficient food or enough drinking water, education or medical care. Civil war and natural disaster continue to endanger the economies of those same areas, which are already afflicted by a widespread world crisis. Entire nations, such as my own, the Republic of Guinea, pay a heavy price because of their geographical location. More than 600,000 refugees and displaced persons from Liberia and Sierra Leone are now living in our country. The Republic of Guinea will never abandon its humanitarian duty to its Liberian and Sierra Leonean brothers, and continues to suffer the consequences of a fratricidal war which has lasted for six years in one of those neighbours and three years in the other. It is true that relative calm, showing a clearer desire for peace in Liberia, has been noted since the agreements between the factions were signed on 19 August 1995 at Abuja. In the view of my delegation, this new choice of peace in Liberia also requires a clear-cut effort on the part of the international community. In this connection, one has to ensure better control of weapons flows in the region. The Government of the Republic of Guinea is resolved to take action to that end. Clearly, peace in Liberia will help to unblock the crisis in Sierra Leone and to establish in our subregion of West Africa an atmosphere of peace, security and lasting stability, which are all essential to our programme for economic integration. My Government also welcomes the Lusaka Agreements and we support all the efforts being made to implement those Agreements with a view to ending the crisis in Angola. It is our belief that if the political will shown on both sides is sustained, then the people of Angola will come to know the peace and stability they have yearned for so long and will be able to work for national reconstruction and economic and social development. Here we would pay tribute to the joint efforts made by the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and by the international community for peace and reconciliation in that brother country. On the question of Somalia, my delegation deplores the current blockage in the peace process. We would urge all parties to the conflict to demonstrate wisdom and mutual understanding with a view to finding a peaceful settlement to the crisis. Turning to Rwanda and Burundi, my delegation believes that to encourage major efforts by the international community, those involved in those societies must triumph over hatred, cultivate a spirit of forgiveness and promote love and dialogue. Today, the conflict in the Middle East is on a positive footing. In this regard, the advent of Palestinian autonomy in the Gaza Strip and Jericho, continuing negotiations for extending that autonomy to territories still under occupation, the Jordanian-Israeli agreement on borders and the Israeli-Syrian talks on the Golan are all significant advances that augur well for a comprehensive, just and lasting settlement of the question. United Nations resolutions on Jammu and Kashmir, on recognition of the border between Iraq and Kuwait and on the situation in Afghanistan should, we believe, benefit from mutual understanding between those involved. The same holds true for the question of Western Sahara. In the Korean peninsula, we are pleased to see an easing of tension. My delegation would encourage the North and the South to pursue their efforts towards the independent and peaceful reunification of their country into a confederated republic in keeping with the principle of one State, one nation, two regimes and two Governments. Moreover, my Government is pleased that 17 the talks between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America have led to a negotiated solution of the nuclear issue on the peninsula and to an improvement in the relations between those two countries. In the former Yugoslavia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the multicultural and ancient civilization, born of the contributions of diverse peoples throughout the Balkans, is being jeopardized by human fury. My delegation believes that what is happening there, and indeed everywhere, should remind the international community of its responsibilities for peace and reconciliation among the peoples and their component groups. All the wars that are ravaging entire regions of the world today share, along with their countless dead, the phenomenon of an endless flow of displaced persons seeking, over mountains and through valleys, a place of refuge. Despite the international community’s spirit of solidarity, refugees and displaced persons experience the very worst deprivations. These days, their problem has grown to unprecedented proportions of gravity and complexity. Their numbers have increased from year to year, making it ever more difficult to manage the problem appropriately. In my delegation’s view, the crises that spawn refugees constitute genuine threats to regional stability and world peace. Guinea, which is participating in the United Nations security mission in the Rwandese refugee camps in Zaire, in keeping with a framework agreement signed with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and taking account of its own experience with Liberian and Sierra Leonean refugees, believes that no effort should be spared to calm extremism everywhere. That is why my Government supports all initiatives to strengthen the intervention capacities of the High Commissioner for Refugees. Guinea also supports the drafting of an agenda for humanitarian action along the lines of “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development”. Despite the end of the East-West conflict, nuclear weapons remain the greatest threat to international peace and security, in spite of the remarkable progress made in bilateral and multilateral disarmament negotiations. Many dangers still threaten our efforts to achieve a collective security that would include the related issues of development, environment and human rights. In certain key areas, there is an evident and growing trend in the trafficking and use of chemical and fissionable materials in conflicts, as well as the hidden or overt desire of some countries to possess nuclear weapons. These facts represent dangers that increase the responsibilities of the United Nations, which is called upon to take rigorous verification measures. That is why the Republic of Guinea welcomes the positive outcome of the New York Conference which led to the indefinite and unconditional extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This was undeniably an important step towards nuclear disarmament and confirmed the special responsibility of the nuclear Powers. However, if it is to be effective, this achievement must be complemented by the immediate conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. All nuclear tests must be prohibited. It is obvious that this quick overview of the major concerns of our age — those relating to international security — amply demonstrate the importance today of United Nations peace-keeping operations. My Government therefore welcomes the special attention given by the United Nations to the settlement of conflicts in the world. We support the relevant views expressed by the Secretary-General in his Agenda for Peace. None the less, while welcoming United Nations involvement in various theatres of operation throughout the world, we must also recognize that over the past few years the peace-keeping operations have, for the most part, yielded somewhat meagre results. This requires today, in the light of our experience, a reformulation of the entire issue of such operations. If they are to be effective, peacemaking and peace- keeping operations must be the subject of broader agreement and dialogue among all the States Members of the United Nations, without discrimination. It is in that context that Guinea welcomes the establishment and work of the mechanism of the Organization of African Unity for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts in Africa. We urge the United Nations and the international community to give it all the necessary assistance. Economic and social development is a prerequisite of lasting peace and security. In developing countries, particularly in Africa, a sense of insecurity arises out of uncertainty in the future. It can thus be easily understood why we often see a collapse of political and social balances, leading to civil disorder and ethnic and religious conflicts. 18 Despite United Nations efforts in the economic and social field, the results remain meagre in some regions of the world, particularly Africa, which is still deeply affected by inequality, poverty and other serious problems that often weaken the social fabric and undermine the foundations of our States. Recent trends in the world economy have helped to worsen this already precarious situation. Thus, the debt burden remains the main obstacle to development in poor countries, forcing them to devote a major share of their scarce resources to it. The collapse of the prices of commodities, which are their main contribution to the world market, has added to their poverty. On top of these harsh conditions come the effects of the implementation, by some of our States, of structural adjustment programmes that are sometimes poorly prepared and often poorly implemented. If all of these various reforms undertaken by our countries are to bear fruit, all of the partners, national and foreign alike, will have to support Africa’s development efforts in an effective way. If they are to be mutually beneficial, the proceeds of all public and private assistance will simply have to take account of everyone’s respective requirements for well-being. Within the framework of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, Guinea welcomes the Marrakesh Agreements that gave rise to the World Trade Organization. Those Agreements will be viable, however, only if they take genuine account of the need to promote the integration of the African economy into the world economy by developing its capacities and making it more dynamic. In this connection we strongly support the idea of setting up a commodities diversification fund. My delegation greatly appreciates the special attention given to Africa at the summer session of the Economic and Social Council in Geneva, which considered the conditions for implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. Bilateral initiatives must be supported in order to strengthen South-South cooperation on the one hand and to continue the North-South dialogue on the other hand. Moreover the Agenda for Development must focus primarily on Africa, where much of the population lives in poverty. Implementation of that Agenda, complementing the Agenda for Peace, will make it possible once again to measure the new political will that has emerged at recent international conferences on social development, population and development, and women. The Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development offers an appropriate framework for North-South dialogue and it must also enable the United Nations to provide better coordination for, and to make more operational, the policies and programmes implemented by its specialized agencies and institutions, which have had a very limited positive impact on the economies of developing countries so far. In this connection my Government notes with real interest and much hope that the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations will be organizing a world summit on food security in November 1996. That world-wide meeting will make it possible we believe to formulate specific and appropriate solutions to the serious economic problems facing developing countries. Of course, all these hopes will be in vain if the States of the world are unable to crush drug-trafficking and abuse. While reconfirming our support for Agenda 21 and all the agreements on sustainable development, we believe that it is only greater political will that will make it possible to translate into action the decisions that emerge from these various meetings. At the Halifax Summit, held from 15 to 17 June last, the Group of Seven quite rightly recognized that sustainable development was one of the major challenges of the twenty-first century. At that meeting it was also said that better quality of life for all was the objective of sustainable development, the foundations of which are democracy, human rights, transparent and responsible management of public affairs, investment in the human individual and protection of the environment. Guinea welcomes the commitments entered into by the Group of Seven to support national efforts in this area. Protecting fundamental human rights, meeting human needs, achieving social justice and human development are still the focus of concern of the Government of Guinea in its ambitious economic and social reform programme, which has been under way since 1984. Guinea is party to several international conventions relating to human rights because it is firmly committed to promoting and protecting these fundamental rights and freedoms. 19 Today I am happy to be able to tell the international community that my country completed instituting its democratic republican institutions in June this year when we organized our multiparty legislative and municipal elections. The successful completion of this process of democratization, the establishment of a State of law, and the liberalization of the economy in the Republic of Guinea all benefited from the support and understanding of the international community as a whole and I should like to thank you all for this. The United Nations and its specialized agencies, as the paramount instrument for cooperation and multilateral agreement, see their responsibilities increased today more than ever before. Today this universal Organization has certainly acquired a certain prestige. Its help is requested in every area. To strengthen its effectiveness on this fiftieth anniversary of its founding, the United Nations must restructure and revitalize its principal organs in the light of the changes that have taken place in the international arena and taking account of the challenges facing mankind in the forthcoming millennium. The reforms must be based on the principle of equality among Member States at the level of decision-making bodies and also within the various organs. It is only in this way that our common heritage, this irreplaceable tool, this United Nations, will be able successfully to discharge its mission of preserving international peace and security and promoting a fairer world, more equitable and more prosperous world. The success of this institution does depend of course on an improvement in its financial situation at a time when its responsibilities are constantly increasing in this ever- changing international situation. The United Nations has existed for half a century now. The solemn celebration of its first 50 years coincides with the twilight of the twentieth century and it offers its 185 Members an opportunity to try to revitalize its activities and to agree on equitable representation within its principal organs. In Guinea commemoration of this historic event is taking place with the full support of our Government. May the decades to come bring greater understanding among people and among nations so as to ensure the greater happiness of mankind. First of all, allow me to congratulate my colleague, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Portugal, Professor Diogo Freitas Do Amaral, on the occasion of his election to the high post of the President of the General Assembly. Each of the 50 sessions of the General Assembly has been a step for the international community on a difficult road in search of peace within itself, for the strengthening of the indispensable role of the United Nations. The current session will be marked as the anniversary session by the addresses to be made by the Heads of State and Government in late October. Russia’s views on the prospects and difficulties of establishing partnership in a multi-polar and interdependent world — and it is with equal partnership that we link our national and state interests — will be stated by the Head of the Russian State, President Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin. If half a century of experience of the United Nations teaches us anything, it teaches us first of all that only the equality of States and respect for the diversity of cultures, religions and national traditions can serve as the basis for security and prosperity in the modern world. But the formula “unity in diversity” also presupposes everyone’s compliance with fundamental principles of international law and order, respect for human rights and the 6 promotion of economic progress. This is the essence of the United Nations Charter, which identifies both common ideals and goals and equal rights and obligations for all States without “double standards”. They say that generals always prepare for the last war. Politicians and diplomats have no right to prepare for the last peace. On the contrary, it is necessary to avoid slipping back into a bloc mentality and dividing countries into “friends and foes”, whether in politics or in economics. We can indeed make the next 50 years an era of the United Nations if we accept as its basis the indivisibility of international security and sustainable social and economic development for all. This question becomes more and more acute against the background of humanitarian disasters in Africa and other regions of the “third world”, and the social price of the initial stage of reforms in the post-socialist countries. No one will be able to hide from global problems behind dividing lines of national egotism and economic discrimination, or even expanding military alliances. Such things will not rein in, but rather spur on the spread of international terrorism and drugs, and whip up the flames of local conflicts and the arms race. One of the principles of the “Agenda for Development” which is being formulated now should be the early elimination of the remaining discriminatory restrictions in the world economy, trade and technology transfer. In particular, Russia, which is successfully implementing unparalleled reforms, should be recognized as an equal trade and economic partner with an economy in transition. Such a strategy should also provide for the promotion of the economic rehabilitation of countries and regions affected by armed conflicts. The United Nations, its specialized agencies and Member States should immediately begin to address directly the problem of the economic rehabilitation of Bosnia and the former Yugoslavia as a whole, whose peoples have suffered from war and economic sanctions that have been in effect for too long. Russia is ready to take an active part in these efforts, and we do and will continue to contribute substantially to a political settlement. The real chances for such a settlement should not be sacrificed to power or unilateral approaches. The international community should make equally great efforts to achieve progress in all aspects of the peace process in the Middle East and the post-conflict rehabilitation of all States of that region. We congratulate Israel and the Palestinians on the occasion of their reaching an agreement in Taba, whose official signing ceremony will take place on 28 September next in Washington under the chairmanship of President Clinton. We intend to continue our joint efforts with the United States and to make our contribution to the coming Amman summit conference. Europe needs a new model of general and comprehensive security, without double standards or dividing lines. International dialogue on this issue is already under way. I believe that the active involvement of the United Nations and its specialized agencies is necessary to the efforts aimed at the development of this model. Incidentally, the General Assembly was born in the Old World. A new approach is required to disarmament issues in Europe. On the basis of the implementation of the Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty (certainly taking into account new realities) as early as next spring we should arrive at new major agreements based on the unity of the vital security interests of the peoples of the continent instead of the bloc logic of the past. Our proposal to all nuclear-weapon States to elaborate a treaty on nuclear safety and strategic stability has become even more timely. The indefinite extension of the Non-Proliferation Treaty establishes favourable conditions for this. Our common task is to create the necessary political conditions for those States that have not already done so to accede to it as non-nuclear States. We consider it necessary, as a matter of priority, to conclude as soon as possible, but not later than 1996, work on the comprehensive test-ban treaty. From this rostrum, Russia calls for a universal and permanent moratorium on nuclear tests. The summit of the “Political Eight” on nuclear safety, which is to be held next spring in Moscow at the initiative of the President of Russia and which was approved in Halifax, will make a major contribution to global stability. We would like the United Nations to take urgent measures on the prevention of illicit trafficking in light firearms and the proliferation of anti-personnel mines. It 7 is these “light” firearms that have led to enormous human losses in Rwanda and Angola, Liberia and Bosnia, Tajikistan and Abkhazia. Russia has already introduced a moratorium on the export of the most dangerous types of anti-personnel mines. We urge other States to follow our example. This issue should be seriously considered in the United Nations Disarmament Commission. While supporting the activities of the Commission, we believe that it should adopt a new agenda corresponding to the current scale of cooperation in the area of security and to new threats and challenges in this field. The problem of global adherence to a single standard in the area of human rights and basic democratic institutions is very acute. Russia, approaching free, multipartite parliamentary and presidential elections, is making its own contribution to the establishment of these very standards. We invite observers from foreign States and international organizations to attend the forthcoming elections. It was not so long ago that dozens of agenda items of the General Assembly were devoted to the struggle against apartheid. Now it seems unbelievable that this problem has been solved, owing to a large extent, to the efforts of the United Nations. I sincerely welcome the accomplishments of the people and the Government of South Africa, headed by Nelson Mandela, in the democratization and creation of a free, multiracial society. But did we manage to overcome the danger of violence arising through fascism, racism, and political and religious extremism? Alas, the answer is far from reassuring. That is why the international community has no right to abandon its efforts in this direction and must not tolerate the emergence of double standards. The signing of the CIS conventions on human rights and fundamental freedoms and on the rights of national and language minorities was the response of the CIS States to the United Nations recommendations on the creation of a single humanitarian sphere in this part of the world. However, much has yet to be done before a unitary approach to human rights can become a norm of life for, among others, 25 million of our compatriots in some countries of the Commonwealth and the Baltic States. A double standard here is unacceptable. Russia is interested in the adoption at this session of decisions on such issues as the struggle against racism, all forms of xenophobia and aggressive nationalism, ensuring the rights of minorities and the promotion of democracy and the rule of law in countries in transition. The United Nations should further pursue its policy of qualitative improvement of the international human rights protection machinery, primarily by strengthening its control and preventive functions and enhancing its focus on specific action. The policy of single standards must become an incontestable rule in the sphere of peace-keeping as well. Justice without force is powerless, while force without justice is tyrannical. There have been many achievements in United Nations peace-keeping efforts. Without the Blue Helmets, the world would be much more dangerous and dozens of conflicts would have been much more bloody. We are proud that approximately 20,000 Russian servicemen are serving as peace-keepers in United Nations and CIS operations. However, if we want force always to go hand-in- hand with justice in the activities of the United Nations and those who cooperate in them, strict observance of Security Council decisions must be ensured. Here, the Secretary-General and his staff can always count on the support of Russia and, I am confident, of all other Members of the United Nations. The United Nations should be protected from setbacks like that which has occurred in Bosnia. In general, it is necessary radically to improve United Nations peace-keeping through precision of the criteria and terms of the United Nations involvement in areas of tension; a close linkage between peace-keeping operations and efforts to achieve the peaceful settlement of conflicts; the efficient operation of the whole functional chain — peace-keeping planning, command and control. We are for the earliest possible implementation of the Secretary-General’s proposal on the establishment of United Nations reserve forces. We welcome the conclusion of the Convention on the protection of United Nations personnel, which I signed today on behalf of Russia. This instrument will help to save lives of hundreds of peace-keepers in hot spots of the world. Peace-making activities undertaken by Russia and its Commonwealth partners contribute to a considerable extent to ensuring regional and international stability. We appreciate fruitful cooperation with the United Nations in Tajikistan and Georgia. However, the United Nations 8 support of our collective efforts sometimes unfortunately reminds us of a saying: “Too little, too late”. Russia, together with its CIS partners, expects the United Nations to make a radical change in its attitude towards peace- making problems in our part of the world. During the 50 years of the existence of the United Nations, sanctions have been an instrument that the Organization has used to deal with the instigators of conflicts. Now, the time has come to give this instrument a more selective and precise nature. The principal criteria in this regard are: distinct objectives underlying sanctions, advanced coordination of conditions, and mechanisms for lifting them once the objectives are attained. As a newly elected member of the Executive Council of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Russia intends to make an essential contribution to overcoming a new global crisis, namely the tragedy of millions of refugees. To this end, we intend to seek practical results from the international conference on refugees and migrants within the post-Soviet space. At this session the General Assembly should give new impetus to collective efforts by the international community in combating crime, illicit drug-trafficking and terrorism. The explosions in Oklahoma and Paris, the taking of hostages in Budennovsk and chemical terrorist attacks in Tokyo — these are bells tolling for us all. Whatever agenda item we consider, we are convinced time and again that the answers are to be found only on the basis of a single standard: respect for the United Nations Charter and for the purposes and principles of the United Nations that have withstood the severe tests of the past five decades and are lighting the way into the twenty-first century. I have the honour to convey to the President of the General Assembly, and through him to all representatives, the warm greetings and good wishes of His Majesty Jigme Singye Wangchuck, King of Bhutan, for the success of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I offer Mr. Freitas do Amaral the felicitations of my delegation on his election as President of this historic session. His election to this high office is a tribute to him personally and to his country, Portugal, which has always played an active role in the United Nations. My delegation wishes also to pay a tribute to His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire for his skilful stewardship at the forty-ninth session. His presidency has enhanced the esteem of the international community for him and for Côte d’Ivoire. We also take this opportunity to welcome the Republic of Palau into our family of nations. Its participation will greatly enrich our Organization. This session is of especial significance for all of us as we celebrate the passing of 50 years since the birth of the United Nations. It is heartening to note that the grand and lofty vision which inspired our founding fathers still continues to inspire and guide us. More than ever before, we see today the evidence of the collective human will to unite against threats and obstacles to the survival and continued progress of mankind. The participation of no fewer than 150 Heads of State or Government in the special commemorative meeting later this month is glowing testimony to our abiding faith in this world body. The Intergovernmental High-level Meeting on the Mid-term Global Review of the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s was held in New York recently. The least developed countries as a group have not been able to meet many of the objectives of the Programme of Action and their overall socio-economic situation has continued to deteriorate. Some of the factors responsible for this deterioration are, internally, civil strife and natural 25 disasters with their resulting consequences and, externally, the debt problem, low levels of export and an inadequate flow of external finance. These countries have, however, continued to implement wide-ranging reforms and in some countries these efforts have shown positive results. A number of development partners have provided increased support to the least-developed countries, for which we are truly grateful. We believe that the least developed countries have the primary responsibility for their own development, and with the support of the international community they hope to alleviate the desperate plight of their peoples. The Least Developed Countries Division of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development deserves praise for the excellent documentation it provided for the recent intergovernmental meeting on the least developed countries. Earlier this year, we supported the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). This was followed shortly thereafter by several nuclear tests — in what we believe is a contravention of the spirit of the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the NPT. We are increasingly concerned about the fate of the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty and our ultimate goal of eliminating all nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. The maintenance of global peace and security still remains the most pressing challenge for the United Nations. It has become the yardstick by which the United Nations is today being judged. Increasingly, concerns are expressed as to whether the United Nations is able to carry out this task. The tragic situations in Somalia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Rwanda demonstrate the inability of the international community to put an end to the immeasurable suffering of the innocent victims. Such cases raise an important issue. The number of peace-keeping missions has grown exponentially. The past year has seen 18 peace-keeping missions involving 78,000 peace-keepers. The good news is that the United Nations has a vital, ever-growing role to play in keeping the peace and allowing combatants a breathing period in which to come to the negotiating table. The down side is that the peace-keeping missions are a considerable drain on the finances of the United Nations. Expenditures for peace-keeping operation are now more than three times the entire budget for development. Surely development merits high priority as well. The most serious obstacles to sustainable global development are the fast pace of population growth and the increasing degradation of the environment. The situation is worst in the countries that are least able to bear the burden and where there is already an appalling disequilibrium between people and resources. The more advanced countries may delay their confrontation with the environmental crisis but unless these issues are addressed today, we may see the collapse of vital resources and climatic changes in many parts of the world and new security threats resulting from poverty and chaos. This is aggravated by the fact that the most significant developments in the world economy are taking place outside the United Nations, and our Organization is being increasingly marginalized on economic, financial and trade issues. It is important that the world continue to keep investing in people, especially women and children, and that it meet their basic needs in education, health and social welfare. The historic United Nations conferences of this decade on children, environment, human rights, population, social development and women embody the irreversible commitment of the international community to chart a new course for the future. My country is firmly committed to the goals set by these conferences. I wish to acknowledge the special contribution of the United Nations to the development of my country. The United Nations has been actively involved in every sphere of development in Bhutan, and has been responsible for helping us set out on the right path of sustainable development. Every effort has been made on our part to ensure that all assistance received has been properly utilized and meaningful results achieved. I express the profound gratitude of the people of Bhutan to the donor community, which supports the United Nations development activities. We have particularly benefited from the activities of the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the World Food Programme, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Capital Development Fund, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the United Nations Volunteer Programme, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. They have contributed much to the welfare of our people. We are also grateful to our bilateral donors, particularly India, Switzerland, Japan, Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, Norway, Kuwait, Germany, Australia, Thailand, and the United Kingdom for their cooperation and support. The Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System will once again look at streamlining the Organization. Reform of several aspects of the United Nations system is vital, especially as we 26 confront the many challenges of the twenty-first century. There must be better distribution of power within the United Nations. The crippling financial situation caused by large arrears by Member States must be overcome. It is also time to examine the new mechanisms for meeting the financial requirements of the United Nations. My delegation feels that a proper study should be made and reported to the Assembly at an early date. In our view, the innovative idea of a small levy on international air travel proposed by the Foreign Minister of Australia, Senator Gareth Evans, is sound and practical. We are of the considered view that the Security Council must be expanded to give greater representation to developing countries in order to uphold the principles of equity and justice. Many least-developed countries like Bhutan feel they are being increasingly marginalized by the new agendas and priorities of the United Nations. In our view, the United Nations must represent the interests of all countries equally, and not only those of a privileged few. We therefore support the expansion of the Security Council to facilitate more equitable representation of developing countries and deserving candidates that have emerged since the United Nations was established 50 years ago. As a fellow South Asian nation, and as a member of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, of which India is by far the largest member, we strongly support India’s inclusion in the permanent-member category of the Security Council. India’s candidature merits serious consideration on the grounds of equitable geographic representation, the large size and enormous potential of the Indian economy and the fact that one sixth of mankind lives in India. Before I conclude, I should like to join preceding speakers in paying tribute to the many organizations and individuals that serve with unfailing dedication and commitment to further the principles and purposes of the United Nations. I should like to pay a special tribute to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General of the United Nations; to the late James Grant, former Executive Director of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), who did so much for the world’s children; to the many Blue Helmets who have sacrificed their lives so that others may live in peace and security; and to the host of United Nations personnel and volunteers who have selflessly dedicated their lives to the service of others, sometimes serving under the most trying conditions. I should like to join the speakers who have preceded me at this rostrum in offering you, Sir, on behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, warm and hearty congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth regular session. I am particularly pleased that the President of the General Assembly is the representative of Portugal, a friendly country with which my country, the Republic of Zaire, has long enjoyed excellent relations marked by trust and mutual respect. We feel that your intellectual abilities and diplomatic skills, together with your long experience of international affairs, guarantee the success of our work here. My congratulations go also to the other elected members of the Bureau, and I wish them every success in their delicate task of providing you with assistance. Allow me also to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Essy Amara, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the sister Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, to whom I am bound by long-standing ties of personal friendship. I should like to express to him our joy and pride on seeing how masterfully he guided the work of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth regular session and our appreciation of the energy, skill and ability with which he discharged his mandate. Finally, I should like to pay a well-deserved tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his excellent preparatory work for this session, his outstanding efforts to strengthen the role of the United Nations and his many commendable initiatives in support of international peace and security. My thoughts here will turn mainly to the lessons of 50 years of the existence of the United Nations; the revitalization and restructuring of the United Nations; the situation in the subregion of the Great Lakes, particularly Rwanda and Burundi; the efforts for peace in the Middle East; the support of the United Nations system for efforts by Governments to promote and strengthen new or restored democracies; external debt, international economic cooperation and development; disarmament efforts; and, finally, the question of the return or restoration of cultural property to its country of origin. This year the United Nations is commemorating its fiftieth anniversary. When it was founded, it set itself goals that corresponded to the enthusiasm, hopes and needs that emerged with the end of a devastating war whose traumatic effects have not yet faded away entirely. Those goals were to maintain international peace and security, guarantee justice and human rights, foster social progress and establish better living conditions in greater freedom. Where do we stand today? A fiftieth anniversary is an important milestone in the life of persons, institutions and nations. A person who has made nothing of his life by the time he is 50 is not likely to set a new course for his life afterwards. An institution that after 50 years has done nothing to attain the objectives it set when it was founded inevitably raises the question of its viability and the usefulness of its existence. A nation that has done nothing for its people in 50 years must surely step back and re-examine everything — its political leaders, programmes, social projects, management and methods. Fortunately, this is not the case of the United Nations. It has some outstanding accomplishments to its credit. It has achieved real successes and made real efforts in the areas of economic and social development, decolonization, human rights, development and peace-keeping. Its work in establishing norms indisputably represents the highest aspirations of man, of all mankind and all peoples, for a world free from war, threats, intimidation, poverty, oppression and suffering. Today, therefore, the United Nations must preserve and consolidate its accomplishments while also adapting itself to face the new challenges borne in the wake of the astonishing transformations the world has undergone since the end of the Second World War. For those of us from Africa, decolonization was an extremely important page in this story. What would decolonization have been without the United Nations, particularly the adoption of resolution 1514 (XV), the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples? What would have happened in South Africa without the mobilization by the United Nations of the entire international community against the scourge of apartheid, and without its support for the heroic and legitimate struggle of the South African people under the leadership of the recognized liberation movements, particularly the African National Congress (ANC)? In Zaire we have not forgotten that 34 years and 10 days ago, striving to promote peace and restore and maintain the political independence and territorial integrity of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which is today Zaire, one of the most devoted servants of the United Nations, its late Secretary-General, Dag Hammarskjöld, died at Ndola. We have not forgotten that from July 1960 to June 1964 the United Nations Operation in the Congo represented the largest assistance programme undertaken by the United Nations up to that time. And so it is thanks to this major contribution by the United Nations that Zaire preserved its unity and territorial integrity. Let me extend to the United Nations the deep appreciation of the Zairian people for this. That page in our history, which is also a page in the history of the United Nations, reminds us that our people paid a heavy price for peace, and it made a pledge that the generations must hand down from one to another: no more civil war; no more secessions because of tribal, inter-ethnic or power conflicts; a firm commitment to peace and dialogue for development, whatever the nature or the intensity of our internal differences. That is why we gave the name of Dag Hammarskjöld to an important bridge in the city of Kinshasa, to pay tribute to the United Nations by immortalizing the memory of the Secretary-General who died on the battlefield in the struggle for peace. The symbol of the bridge derives from our understanding of the message of the United Nations. As an opening on the world and forum of nations, is not the United Nations, with its message of peace and dialogue, building a bridge between nations? And yet, despite the outstanding progress indisputably made throughout the world, many other things have also happened. The cold war has ended without this being much help to the development process in the countries of the South, particularly in Africa, where poverty has increased in a worsening economic and social situation. In the wake of this worsening situation, Africa, in particular, is experiencing the reappearance of diseases which had been eradicated and the appearance of new endemic diseases, without having the necessary resources to cope with them. Decolonization is virtually over now. Apartheid has been abolished, and Africa, facing the new challenges of democratization and development, seized by the fever of democratization, is undergoing irreversible change accompanied by new difficulties. 2 At the international level, new kinds of domination are emerging, and could lead to the same results as those of the past, if we are not careful. Will “globalization” of people’s behaviour and standardization of reflexes and needs imprison freedom, stifle identities and crush the cultural expression of peoples? There has been no Third World War, but, as in former Yugoslavia, Rwanda, Burundi and elsewhere, a new kind of war has emerged, based on ethnic and tribal “cleansing”, tragic consequences for security, peace, the environment and the development of nations that are very disturbing. A new kind of international crime is engulfing Africa and the world: violence — attacks on individuals and their property, armed robbery and highway robbery; economic and financial crime — counterfeiting, money-laundering, illicit drug trafficking, large-scale fraud in commodities and so forth; political crime — fundamentalism and international terrorism, which take us back to the times of the pirates and the corsairs. Of course the telegraph, the telephone, air travel, radio, television, computers and videos have done a great deal to shrink distances, but they have also helped to strengthen the forces of disorder. Multilateral cooperation, development financing and the spirit of international solidarity have all been frittered away. The new international economic order has not emerged, and bilateral cooperation has been halted for various reasons, some political in many countries, such as Zaire, at the precise moment when those countries are faced with a sharp reduction in financial resources. The conditions attached to development aid are more stringent than ever, and assistance for democratization, strongly encouraged at the La Baule Summit, is also subject to conditionalities. The phenomenon of refugees and displaced persons is now unprecedented in scope. A century of hope, particularly the last half of the century, would thus seem to be ending on a note of despair when we look at what the causes of the new threat to world peace in general and peace in Africa in particular are: armed conflicts, serious internal struggles, poverty, unemployment, inequality, discrimination, intolerance, policies of exclusion, the struggle against State despotism, political and social failures, and so on. To those who are seeking refuge from tyranny we can also add — on our continent those who are fleeing anarchy. The tragic fate of persons displaced because of civil war or violence is one of the major humanitarian problems of our age. There are many armed conflicts today which derive from the struggle between communities swept along by intolerance. It is therefore imperative that the members of the international community shoulder their responsibilities, help each other and act together to reverse these negative trends. As the Secretary-General of the United Nations noted on 20 October 1994, quite rightly: “Societies that used to think they were completely autonomous now know that they are very closely linked to one another. The life of each individual, wherever he may come from, is today part of a planetary whole. Today it is recognized that the loftiest objectives of mankind — peace, justice and prosperity — can be attained only if an increasingly broadly agreed effort is made. And then a whole series of new problems whose worldwide dimensions are quite clear demand solutions that no one country or group of countries can find in isolation.” In order to cope with the new challenges facing us all, with the problems of development, peace and security, the United Nations has to rethink its methods, its organization, and its effectiveness. The influx of nearly 3 million Rwandese refugees to eastern Zaire, about which I shall speak later, revealed to us some of the shortcomings of the United Nations system faced with new challenges. First, 30,000 armed men belonging to the former armed forces of Rwanda came to Zaire on 14 July 1994, and obviously we were not expecting them. They came to regions of North and South Kivu following the civil war in Rwanda. After being disarmed, they were supposed to be taken care of. But by whom? Problems arose as to their status. Were they prisoners of war? Zaire was not at war with Rwanda, we were told. Were they war detainees? “No”, we were told by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), “they are not within our competence.” Are they, then, political refugees? “No”, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) replied. “Men in military uniform are not political refugees, and so they do not fall within our competence.” 3 And so, the 30,000 military men of the former Rwandan armed forces began to take care of themselves, to the detriment of the villagers and local populations, while the United Nations system looked on, powerless. Secondly, at the behest of the Secretary-General and the international community, we agreed to move them far away from our border with Rwanda, for obvious reasons. So we found sites in Shaba, Maniema and Equateur. Joint United Nations-Zaire evaluation missions were sent to these regions. Assuming that there were three people in each family, we identified 90,000 individuals belonging to the former Rwandan Army to be moved from the Rwandan border. Having seen this evaluation, the United Nations declared the cost exorbitant, and the Secretary-General was unable to find the financial resources needed. So, the idea was abandoned and the United Nations asked Zaire to take appropriate security measures and to keep the 30,000 military men where they were, namely on the border with Rwanda. But, leaving them there made the Kigali Government nervous about possible destabilization, and so it began spreading unfounded accusations against Zaire. Without checking the facts at all, the United Nations then recognized Kigali’s claims and lifted the arms embargo on Rwanda which had been established pursuant to Security Council resolution 1011 (1995) of 16 August 1995, in order to help that country protect itself against some hypothetical threat, but the United Nations has done nothing at all about the 30,000 military men left to be cared for by Zaire without any assistance. And what is more, after lifting the arms embargo on Rwanda on 16 August 1995 so that it could arm itself and deal with the threat of destabilization from Zaire, the Security Council adopted resolution 1013 (1995) two weeks later setting up an international Commission of Inquiry to look into allegations that the former Rwandan Government forces were being trained and supplied with weapons from Zaire in order to destabilize Rwanda. This is all quite astonishing, not least because the highest level of the collective security system of the United Nations was involved. I myself have served on the Security Council. I was President during the Malvinas war and I have always believed that at that level of responsibility, matters should be considered with the utmost care. Either the Security Council has proof and takes action, the setting up of an investigative commission being now irrelevant; or the Security Council has no proof, so it investigates and takes a decision after it has checked the facts. The credibility of our Organization is at stake here. These are just two cases showing the inability of the United Nations to deal with the new challenges. The much-needed revitalization of the United Nations depends on the interest and the efficacy it shows in dealing with conflicts and complex situations that call for its intervention. The same holds true for its restructuring. Fifty years after its inception, the United Nations needs to adjust and adapt to the new challenges facing the world today, including economic and social development; political conflicts against a backdrop of ethnic cleansing; changes affecting international relations; and the changes that have taken place in the world since 24 October 1945; the need to enlarge the circle of decision-makers in matters of international peace and security; the need to ensure more equitable and balanced representation of the nations of the world on the Security Council and to avoid any danger of the collective security system being manipulated; and the inadequacy of the financial resources to cover the scale of the tasks facing this universal Organization. This therefore seems to be the cost of ensuring a new dynamism in United Nations activities, for this changing world is not exactly reassuring. And many events are taking place without the nations of the world knowing why or how. There is a danger that political lobbies may use the cogs of the United Nations machinery to their own ends, using their influence, without any counterbalance, and that certain Governments may bring pressure to bear on the United Nations. This slippery slope was certainly not foreseen when the collective security system was established. The Republic of Zaire welcomes the current peace process in the Middle East. We noted with satisfaction the agreements signed between the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization on the one hand and between Israel and Jordan on the other. To our mind, these are important steps towards the establishment of an overall peace. Zaire wholeheartedly supports the bilateral negotiations and the progress made thus far in the peace process and urges all parties to implement the agreements. 4 We trust that efforts will be made to ensure that further negotiations are held soon between Israel and other Arab States. Emphasizing the need to ensure progress in Arab- Israeli negotiations in other directions of the peace process, the Republic of Zaire would urge the establishment of dialogue between the protagonists, and encourage them to do their utmost to reach agreements that reflect the legitimate aspirations of each side. This is the only way in which we will be able to overcome an age-old distrust and create the conditions needed for progress and development in the Middle East, in the spirit of peace that has been so long in coming. The situation in the Great Lakes subregion in Central Africa is of great concern in the Republic of Zaire because it calls into question the peace, stability, security and development, not just of Rwanda and Burundi, but of the region as a whole. The Republic of Zaire, I wish to emphasize, has no particular problem with Rwanda or with Burundi. Yesterday, Zaire offered refuge to the Tutsis who were driven from their home and today we are offering refuge to those who have left their country. A human tragedy of an unprecedented scale is unfolding in this region. Everything borders on the extreme, including the urge to exclude other people; the hatred that pits the fraternal enemies, the Tutsis and the Hutus, against each other; the dramatic peregrinations of people who are hounded because of their ethnic origins or political opinions; the ease with which human lives are destroyed, including the lives of children, women, old people, and intellectuals; the instinct for violence; the scale of the flow of people searching for shelter, fleeing certain death; the imbalance in the division of political and military power and the rejection of democratic principles in the running of the country. As former Tutsi refugees from 1959 and from 1962- 1963 are returning home, thanks to the return to power of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (FPR), it is now the turn of millions of Hutus, who represent 85 per cent of the population, to leave their country, abandoning their property, their land and their houses to the newcomers. The Tutsis, who were forced out in the 1960s at the height of the Hutus’ power, and who account for 15 per cent of the population, took 30 years to prepare their forcible return to power. How long does the international community want to wait until it is the turn of the Hutu majority to return to power using force? Every time there is this kind of swing, new human dramas will be condemned and major problems of reinsertion and reinstallation will emerge. In this cycle of deliberate violence, it will become increasingly impossible to say who is innocent of something and who is not guilty of something. Faced with a tragedy of such magnitude, the international community and the United Nations seem to us to be rather helpless. Who then will take the necessary measures to help these countries, to prevent their situation from deteriorating, to preserve peace and security in the region and to prevent further genocide? The resolutions and declarations adopted to date by the United Nations do not take account of all the realities on the ground. They do not cover all the aspects of the tragedy that I have just described that exists in Rwanda, Burundi and in the subregion of the Great Lakes as a whole. And these resolutions and declarations have political implications that contribute to the region’s instability. No purpose can be served at the stage where we are today by quoting lofty principles or deciding who is right on the basis of who can best present their version of the situation and the facts. Instead, we must objectively define the concrete problems facing Rwanda and Burundi as States and take specific measures, within the framework of an overall approach to the question, to ensure the repatriation of refugees; national reconciliation; power-sharing; the establishment of the needed balance in the armies that now constitute the political support of Governments, in order to create republican armed forces; the establishment or revitalization of the democratization process; assistance in reintegrating refugees into society; reconstruction and development assistance for the countries of origin and of asylum; and, finally, the establishment of viable judicial structures, so that there can be some justice. There is indeed a justice problem, and it must be solved. It is in this spirit that the Republic of Zaire supports the holding of a regional conference on peace, stability and security in the Great Lakes subregion, following the signing of bilateral agreements on the repatriation of refugees. If this conference is to succeed, it must, for obvious reasons, be planned very carefully. The 5 Government of Zaire welcomed the appointment by the Secretary-General of the United Nations of Ambassador Jesus to the post of Special Envoy. Zaire will cooperate fully with him in order to ensure the success of his mission. I should like also to draw the Assembly’s attention to the fact that the influx of Rwandese refugees into eastern Zaire, an event unheard of since the end of the Second World War, appears to have been relegated to the back pages of international news now that its sensationalist aspect has worn thin. The refugees destroyed a priceless national heritage: the national park of Virunga, a site listed by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) as a national treasure. The local flora and fauna — mountain gorillas, elephants and other protected species — were not spared. The environment, the ecology, and basic sanitary and educational infrastructures were destroyed. General Assembly resolution 49/24 of 2 December 1994, on special assistance to countries — including Zaire — receiving refugees to help restore the areas destroyed by the massive presence of refugees, has so far had no impact or follow-up whatsoever. Zaire, a victim of the tragedy in Rwanda by virtue of their common border, has been accused, with increasing frequency, of attempting to destabilize Rwanda. The accusers are none other than those who wish to use the refugee question to destabilize the Great Lakes area in order to live out their dream of creating a new Ima empire that would challenge the principle, inherited from colonized times, of the inviolability of borders; they would attempt to resolve the ethnic conflicts in the region by distributing land here and there — all this to the detriment of Zaire. This approach shows that a political issue underlies the whole problem. Either we are dealing with refugees, in the true sense of the word, and then their massive presence and the destruction they have wrought in our country cause our people a serious safety and security problem — which would entitle us to invoke the exception envisaged in the Declaration on Territorial Asylum; or we are dealing with people quietly expelled from their country for political and ethnic reasons, in which case, since no constitution in the world would allow a country to expel its citizens for ethnic or political reasons, we do not have to accept these castaways of “ethnic cleansing”. That is why, in order that the pretext of Zaire’s supposed attempt to destabilize Rwanda not give certain countries the opportunity to carry out a plot against my country, Zaire — in the wake of the lifting of the arms embargo on Rwanda, which was decided on by the Security Council, and in the face of the jeopardizing of our national security and the serious threats that face our population — resorted to one of the existing international instruments concerning refugees, namely General Assembly resolution 2312 (XXII), of 14 December 1967, the Declaration on Territorial Asylum, to urge the international community and the United Nations to shoulder their responsibilities, because Zaire does not have the means to bear alone the burden of the massive presence of refugees in its territory, particularly since it is on the eve of holding elections. I would recall, since much has been said about this, that the second preambular paragraph of the Declaration on Territorial Asylum states that a person faced with persecution “has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution” and paragraph 1 of article 3 states that such a person shall not be “subjected to measures such as rejection at the border or, if he has already entered the territory in which he seeks asylum, expulsion or compulsory return”. Since 1960, Zaire has been taking in refugees from Rwanda — sometimes Tutsi, sometimes Hutu — and we have always followed that provision to the letter. But paragraph 2 of article 3 states: “Exception may be made to the foregoing principle only for overriding reasons of national security or in order to safeguard the population, as in the case of a mass influx of persons”. And if a State should decide that, for whatever reason, an exception to that provision is justified, it can “consider the possibility of granting to the person concerned an opportunity of going to another State”, and can then bring this matter before the international community. This is precisely the situation that Zaire found itself in. It decided to be an exception to the principle, and so informed the Secretary-General and the Security Council of the United Nations. Countries wishing to take in these refugees are welcome to do so, but Zaire refuses to continue to be accused of destabilizing Rwanda simply because we accepted 3 million Rwandese on our land. We 6 wish to cut out at the root the trumped-up charges against our country. In this way, the international community will be able to judge better our determination to live in peace with our neighbours. However, acceding to the request by the Secretary- General of the United Nations, the Zaire Government held talks with Mrs. Sadako Ogata, the head of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), and asked her to organize, on the UNHCR level, a voluntary repatriation, on a massive and uninterrupted scale, of the refugees to their countries of origin, so that by 31 December 1995 all of the refugees would have returned home. The international community has an obligation to help Rwanda and Burundi to deal with the problems of repatriation and reinsertion of their nationals. During our last meeting in Geneva on 25 September 1995, we agreed with Rwanda’s Minister of Rehabilitation and with Mrs. Ogata on the modalities for repatriating the refugees by 31 December, to the tune of 8,000 to 10,000 persons per day, at various points of entry, which were identified — Shangugu, Kiseni or Gibumba. We can think of no Government that would hesitate as to what course to take if it had to choose between the requirements of international solidarity and those of national security and the protection of its population. To judge by the information that appears in the international press, the impression that some wish to give of Zaire is that it is a hell where it would not be very pleasant to live. Zaireans are human beings. Like human beings anywhere, some are good and some are bad, some not so good and not so bad. We are also a people. Whatever one thinks of me personally, or of any other politician in my country, this cannot be allowed to discredit an entire people, or affect the image of my people as a whole. When many fled the horrors and the violence of war, it was to the “hell” of Zaire that they chose to come and live. But one might well wonder what would become of peace in Central Africa if Zaire were incapable of managing conflicts between tribes — we have more than 450, as well as our other internal political problems — and if it exploded like Rwanda, spilling our 47 million people into neighbouring countries. For countries such as ours, that have experienced the whole range of turbulence that a people can know — above and beyond the colonial period, which more or less persisted into the first years of independence, and the price of building a post-colonial State in conformity with the aspirations of our people — there is no greater good in the world than peace. Without it, all illusions aside, progress and development are out of the question. In the name of peace, every State must be fully responsible for its people and must learn to live with its own national contradictions and refrain from obliging others to bear the burden of its incapacity to manage those contradictions. Otherwise, the international community, both at the regional and global levels, must come to its aid to develop its capacity to resolve its problems without inflicting further wounds, and above all without inflicting them on other countries, developing countries like our own, whose resources are needed for other purposes. The international community thus has the duty and should have the courage to impose peace and reconciliation in the Great Lakes region and state clearly its refusal to countenance the drift towards exclusion and ethnicity. Zaire shelters many African refugees on its territory and, out of a sense of common humanity and an appreciation of our historic ties with its neighbours, decided to take in our Rwandese brothers. But we can no longer pay for the tragedies that are engulfing our neighbours, with all their economic and security repercussions on our border population. As I have said, we believe the international community must do all it can to reassure our people by helping the Governments of Rwanda and Burundi to make all the necessary provisions to guarantee the speedy return of the refugees and their reintegration in their homeland. We reaffirm here our resolve to work for the restoration of a climate of peace in our subregion and to make our contribution towards all the efforts at reconciliation aimed at strengthening mutual confidence and security there. But we can no longer cope alone with those refugees. We can no longer shoulder alone the humanitarian burden imposed upon us by humanitarian principles and the agreements we have signed. On behalf of my Government, I should like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs. Sadako Ogata and the 7 Executive Committee of the High Commissioner for Refugees for the efforts they have been making with limited resources to solve the problem of refugees in the Great Lakes region and for their assistance in rehabilitating the Bukavu airport and the port of Uvira. Our thanks also go to the member States of the European Union which have pledged contributions for the repair of roads in North and South Kivu in advance of the organization of elections. In the 1960s, few governing structures in the countries of the South demonstrated particular interest in or attachment to the close connection that exists between democracy and development; democracy and human rights; and human rights and development. With the passage of time, the difficult experience of management has taught us some lessons. It makes more sense to manage growth and wealth than degradation and poverty; it is not enough to consume what others produce, but one should learn to produce what one consumes; inheriting infrastructure and ways of life conceived by others is one thing, but conceiving one’s own communal approach to life and to fix one’s own limits for oneself is another. In all things, it is the individual that remains the focus and the medium. An individual whose rights and freedoms are flouted, who is aware that he does not count in national affairs, drifts away from the ruling circles and from the national effort for development imposed on him from above, from policies out of touch with his own daily life. Many of our countries have, in the course of the last 30 years, experienced the indifference of the individual whose rights and freedoms were left out of account. Today, in the light of the economic and social collapse, that link between human rights, democracy and development is understood and acknowledged. It is not just because of what was said at the conference at La Baule, but because of the importance and the intensity of the message we heard at La Baule, that the process of democratization in Africa must also be understood as an act of awareness, of self-awareness. That is how this process becomes truly irreversible. In the Republic of Zaire, five years of difficult transition have done considerable damage at the political, economic and social levels. That is why we have not been able to play our full part in the arena of free nations. Domestically, we have not been fully able to shoulder our responsibilities to deal with the socio-economic requirements of our people. But now we have decided to bury the past and to assume our duties to the full and to offer our contribution to the solution of problems facing the international community, if it be only through our analysis of the situation. We intend to strengthen ties with all friendly countries, particularly our traditional friends, in finding together appropriate solutions to the problems which have beset our relations. At the same time, we mean to give sustained, real and useful meaning to the diversification of our external relations in the field of development. Internally, through another kind of management, of which the Prime Minister spoke in September 1994, and in the context of restored liberties, we intend to meet the aspirations of our people to a better quality of life. This is a matter of priority. Democracy does not mean licence, and the state of laws implies that all citizens are subject without discrimination to the law. In our countries, educating as many people as possible, changing the way people think, raising the general level of education and political and democratic awareness — all of these draw upon the limited financial resources of the State to strengthen, following the forthcoming elections, democracy and the state of law and of progress. While the Government is seeking to create conditions of legal security and an economic environment favourable to the creation of fruitful partnerships and mutually advantageous cooperation, we want to count on our external partners and the international financial institutions — in short, on the international community — to take up with us the challenge of development. The present institutional order in our country conforms to the desires of our people as expressed through its political class as a whole, and is designed to extricate us from the crisis rationally and methodically. But our efforts alone will not suffice. That is why we seek aid to accompany the process of democratization, because, unfortunately, the support of the people for political scenarios is also important to finding a solution to their daily concerns. As the Manila Declaration emphasizes, by mutual support, the internal and external forces that endanger the new democracy can be overcome. The United Nations thus has a duty to support efforts by Governments, 8 including ours, to promote or consolidate new or re-established democracies. The eradication of extreme poverty in all countries, particularly developing countries, has become one of the priority development goals of the 1990s, in keeping with resolutions 47/196 and 47/197. The year 1996 has been proclaimed International Year for the Eradication of Poverty. This honours our Organization. Over the past 50 years, the United Nations has made serious efforts to intensify international economic cooperation. In particular, it has adopted the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States and the Declaration and Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order based on justice and equity. None the less, the trade relations between the developed and the developing countries continue to show an imbalance which, having been allowed to persist and grow, is today a real threat to peace everywhere. In Africa, efforts made at the national, subregional and regional levels to break out of the vicious cycle of poverty have not been sufficiently supported by the international community. Stricken by an unprecedented crisis, Africa has for years groaned under the weight of its debt. It has suffered the effects of lowered commodity prices, of the deterioration in the terms of trade, of protectionism in the developed countries, and of a drop in official development assistance. The debt is a major hindrance to economic growth and development in Africa. The heavy debt burden absorbs one third of our countries’ export earnings and represents a serious drain on resources which would otherwise have served to finance growth and development. In order to implement economic reform, stabilization and structural adjustment programmes and to eradicate poverty, the debtor developing countries need to mobilize the resources necessary to their efforts. They also need new supplies of financial resources and concessional financial assistance from creditor countries and multilateral financial institutions. Debt relief is becoming increasingly unavoidable if national resources are to be freed up to support activities necessary to social development. The responsibilities which debt and debt servicing impose on our developing countries are so alarming that we must apply ourselves with particular inventiveness and urgency to the search for solutions to the problems to which they give rise. They require a leap of imagination. That is why we feel it to be necessary and urgent to assess the progress made in the various United Nations bodies in the establishment of a new international economic order, so that, in response to the results of this assessment, we can take appropriate measures to promote development in developing countries and international economic cooperation. The Republic of Zaire hopes that, at this session, the General Assembly, in the framework of agenda item 96 (c), on the external debt crisis and development, will take into consideration the recommendations made by the non-aligned countries at their meeting in Jakarta from 13 to 15 August 1994. It may find therein ways and means of resolving the problem of the debt of developing countries and of promoting their harmonious development. Everyone knows that the external debt of the developing countries cannot be absorbed at its current level without the cooperation of the developed countries and the international financial institutions, which must agree on the establishment of a new world economic order that would take the vital interests of its partners into account. The countries of the North would also benefit by making an additional effort to understand that the debtor countries can only honour their debt-service obligations according to their financial capacities. In the current situation, compelling them to meet all their financial commitments could end up in a collapse of their economies, despite all their good-faith efforts. 1995 has been proclaimed World Year of Peoples’ Commemoration of the Victims of the Second World War and Member States have been called upon solemnly to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War. This year we will also consider and assess mid-way the Declaration of the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade. How can we commemorate the victims of the Second World War today without also giving thought to the victims of the wars in the former Yugoslavia, Liberia, Somalia, Rwanda, Burundi and elsewhere? When will we commemorate the victims of those wars? There is no destruction of human life that is more appropriate than any other. The United Nations was supposed to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war — but which war, what kind of war? True, the kind of war fought from 1939 to 1945 has not recurred, but can we 9 assert today that mankind has mastered the arts of peace? It is in men’s minds that the instinct for war must be replaced by the spirit of peace if the world is to be saved from the scourge of war. If it is not, any progress we have made will remain fragile. The United Nations offers us the opportunity to consider from a global perspective the questions of war, peace and security. It remains an essential instrument for achieving the objectives of arms control and disarmament. But situations of conflict and tension must be prevented more effectively. An efficient system of collective security that allows States to reduce their military capacities must be put in place. It is no longer enough to limit arms and promote disarmament by regulating weaponry and establishing the balance of power at lower levels. We feel that that is not the way to achieve the goal of development for all, which is the new major challenge facing the United Nations. We must reinvent trust in international relations. We must make a new creative effort to ensure that disarmament goes hand-in-hand with the achievement of peace, security and development throughout the world. In this context, we believe that the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction — the first global and truly verifiable disarmament treaty — offers a worthwhile avenue. Indeed, it carries a security gain for all States through the total elimination of an entire category of weapons of mass destruction. We hope that this Convention will soon have the required number of ratifications to enter into force and thus become a standard shared by all States. Since the inclusion in the General Assembly’s agenda, in 1973, of the item on the restitution of works of art to countries victims of expropriation, we have noted with satisfaction the continued and growing interest in this item shown by Members of the United Nations. In addition to bilateral negotiations for the restitution of cultural property, we now have the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property, to which the number of States Parties continues to grow. However, the quantity and quality of the cultural property “returned” or restored are insignificant compared to the importance which the General Assembly attaches to the item. Promises made to Zaire by countries which still hold works of art and other cultural treasures belonging to Zaire, as well as museum pieces and archives that are essential to preserving and nourishing cultural values, have not been fully kept. We call on the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, to do everything possible to encourage those countries to honour their obligations so that the objectives of the United Nations and the countries of origin can be met. I wish the General Assembly every success to the work of its fiftieth session and I wish the United Nations a long life. May I first of all on behalf of the Dominican Republic and on behalf of its Constitutional President, Mr. Joaquín Balaguer, express our sincerest congratulations to the President of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. Secondly, I wish to express our profound gratitude to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, who presided over the forty-ninth session and, particularly, to the Secretary-General, who, by his extraordinary efforts and tireless dedication in a world marked by challenges and breaches of the peace, wages a daily combat for the full implementation of the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. The Dominican Republic can affirm with pride on this fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations its role as a founding Member of the United Nations, which signed the San Francisco Charter within the international order that rose from the ashes of the Second World War, whose fiftieth anniversary we also commemorate, and as a country that defends the principle of sovereignty as the inalienable right of the people. Fifty years after the creation of the United Nations in 1945, the world is in a state of transition toward what has been termed a new world order, moving from bipolarity to unipolarity in a multipolar world, following upon the world built in Yalta and in the Bretton Woods agreements. The 1945 order was based on a balance of power and on the United Nations as a reflection of the real desire to seek security and universal peace — and the Organization has managed, since its creation, to avert another nuclear holocaust. 16 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 Small countries such as the Dominican Republic, staunch guardians of their national sovereignty, have witnessed during the five decades since 1945 this order created through the United Nations and its specialized agencies, with Bretton Woods, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Council for Economic Aid (COMECON), the Warsaw Pact, and the European Economic Community — today the European Union; the evolution of countries with market economies and those with centrally planned economies, and the decolonization processes which have resulted in the establishment of many independent States. All this has left an indelible imprint on the annals of contemporary history and has been rich in lessons for all the nations of the world — lessons, in a word, on relations between North and South. The order which emerged from Bretton Woods was reflected in the International Monetary Fund (IMF); the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD); and the aborted International Trade Organization of 1947, which was replaced by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), from which the agricultural sector, services and intellectual property were excluded. All this explains why 46 years later, with the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations and the birth, in 1993, of the World Trade Organization (WTO), we are giving multilateral shape to world trade in order to overcome bilateral barriers and, above all, the protectionism that was practised by the industrial countries. In these five decades, the small countries had to struggle mightily to uphold the principles of democracy, including respect for human rights, and to defend their right to access to the markets of the industrialized countries against tariff and non-tariff barriers, quotas, and downward spiralling in the prices of their raw materials. We can, however, point with pride to the way we fought for our demands for greater symmetry and fairness in commercial and economic relations. This in the end led to the establishment of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). The San Francisco Charter illuminated like a powerful beacon the road to the future of the countries that had had to experience the difficult period of the bipolar world. For its part, the Dominican Republic, committed as always to the principles of the Charter, was able to attain the functional democracy we enjoy today. This took place within a world that has some 30 integration processes and has seen the emergence of three strong economic- integration blocs with their spheres of influence — such as the European Union and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) — in addition to the Free Trade Zone of the Americas, which will probably be established in the year 2005; and, for Eastern Asia, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC). There are also the political repercussions these processes have had on a world where the dreams for centrally planned economies have faded. Our country is now a member of the recently established Association of Caribbean States (ACS). This new world order that has now become the global village foreseen by Marshall McLuhan, within a globalized, international economy, will not be without tensions, for we do not yet fully grasp the cultural plurality of nations and the strong search for identity in regions and within ethnic and religious groups. Contrary to the popular phrase, history has not come to an end. A new process is beginning with the expression by peoples and regions of their national identity. The globalization of trade would seem to transcend the borders of the nation-State and create a concept of a region-State, given the fragmentation of national aggregate assets. Within the family of nations we feel proud to have been not only one of the 51 States that participated in the San Francisco Conference, but also one of the first to have ratified, in resolution 962 of our National Congress, the Charter of the United Nations, which was promulgated by our Executive Branch on 11 August 1945. On the fiftieth anniversary of that memorable date we wish to pay tribute to those members of the Dominican delegation who signed that historic document: Manuel Peña Batlle, Emilio García Godoy, Gilberto Sánchez Lustrino, Tulio Franco y Franco and Minerva Bernardino. We are a nation deeply committed to the proper functioning of democratic institutions, having attained a commendable political stability in our continent’s community of nations. In this context, the United Nations will be making a praiseworthy contribution to the process of maintaining stability in our country by responding to the request of the Dominican Republic for reimbursement of the funds spent in implementing the economic embargo imposed on our neighbour, Haiti. The Dominican Republic has submitted that request to the Secretariat and our Government is now awaiting a response. As a developing country the Dominican Republic must face many challenges in the sensitive areas of drug 17 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 trafficking and drug consumption. This is a problem our country has met with a State policy that provides for severe punishments for offences related to this crime against humanity. At the present time legislation is pending in our National Congress to punish money-laundering, which is an activity related to the criminal drug traffic. We are also coordinating our policies with the international community, since in this field more than any other international cooperation is required. It is fitting here to congratulate the United Nations Secretariat on the successful holding of the Fourth World Conference on Women at Beijing. That Conference represents a milestone in the Organization’s history because of the recognition it has granted to that noble human being who makes up half of all humanity and is the mother of the other half. In that connection we would reiterate at this fiftieth session, just as we did at the last session, our concern at the Secretary-General’s proposal to merge the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW) with the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM). The General Assembly should recall Economic and Social Council resolution 1979/4 of 9 May 1979, which established the permanent headquarters of the Institute in the Dominican Republic. We wish to reiterate — with the utmost courtesy, but also with the utmost firmness — our request that INSTRAW and UNIFEM not be merged, maintaining the commitments contained in General Assembly resolution 34/157 of 17 December 1979 and the agreement that established INSTRAW in Santo Domingo so that our first city of America may remain the headquarters of that important Institute. This would also be in keeping with the extraordinary importance of the recently concluded Conference on Women. We are now only six years from the beginning of the twenty-first century, in the year 2001, and our thoughts turn to an assessment of the past 50 years since the founding of the United Nations. We should also be visualizing the foundations and the shape of the new world order for the building of a future based on security and world peace. This will require a qualitative change in the United Nations, removing the sacrosanct aura surrounding the veto power of the great Powers in the Security Council and promoting a democratic system of coexistence among States and peoples. The United Nations and we, its Member States, will have to meet the challenge of the demographic or so- called population bomb with growth estimated at 84 million persons per year, and related problems, such as the fact that in 1990 only 40 per cent of the world’s population lived in rural sectors and over 50 per cent in urban centres of over 100,000 inhabitants. The number of persons suffering malnutrition is estimated to reach 512 million by the end of the century. Children without schooling will number 315 million, and there will be 889 million illiterate persons. Those living without sanitation systems will reach 1,750 million. Dealing with those problems will be a real challenge. The new context of the world order will require a three-pronged approach involving an ecological response, a political response and an economic response. Although the United Nations Environment Programme was an important step forward for the protection of the biosphere, consideration should be given the possibility of creating, after proper study, an ecological response embodied in a United Nations environmental security council composed of Member States with a permanent 15-member executive committee and a secretary-general with executive powers. The political response would come from the reform of the United Nations Charter. In this connection, we should bear in mind that Article 109 of the Charter, which was written in 1945, provides for the convening of a General Conference within a 10-year period for the purpose of reviewing the Charter. In addition, on 22 April 1991 a number of former Heads of State and political leaders appealed for a renewal of the United Nations. Today, it is appropriate to envisage the inclusion of Germany, Japan and India as members of the Security Council, as well as the inclusion of representatives of third-world countries. Charter reform would, of course, imply the exercise of the powers of the Secretary-General supported by under-secretaries for environmental, political and economic affairs. In addition, the economic response should come from a clear and precise definition of the role of the United Nations within the new order. Since, in the economic sphere, the Group of 7 has already been coordinating its policies through a kind of security council, with the recent addition of Russia, we might envisage its incorporation into the United Nations as a 18 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 sort of Economic Council that might include, in addition, the countries of southern Asia and the Pacific, as well as Latin America and other regions. It could eventually become a Group of 18, linked to the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council, the specialized agencies and the regional commissions. The Dominican Republic hopes that the ideas and suggestions that have been put forward, many now under study and being proposed in various forums, will be viewed as a good-will contribution by a small nation — a nation that is small but proud of its participation in the international community. For that reason, we cannot, as a small nation that believes in unity within diversity, fail to mention our support for the agenda item — proposed by Burkina Faso, Costa Rica, Dominica, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea- Bissau, the Solomon Islands, Nicaragua, Niger, Panama, the Central American Republic, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Swaziland and our country, the Dominican Republic — regarding the special situation of the Republic of China in Taiwan in the international context, based on the principle of universality and in accordance with the established model of parallel representation of divided countries in the United Nations. The Republic of China on Taiwan, a Founding Member of the United Nations, has a population of 21 million, a high level of economic development and full political democracy. It has been a model to all developing nations. Its aspiration to participate in the United Nations once again is something positive for the international community. The Organization must not ignore its existence. The Dominican Republic supports the establishment of an ad hoc committee to seek a satisfactory resolution of this matter. At this fiftieth session, the General Assembly should take stock of the achievements of the United Nations in its 50 years of existence as well as of the unfulfilled objectives in the area of the maintenance of international peace and security. But above all it should adopt a vision of the future that will enable us to build a democratic system of coexistence among States and peoples, inspired by the profound human aspiration to lasting peace. May merciful God help us attain these goals. The world is aware that the fiftieth session of the General Assembly marks a major milestone in the global events that have charted and guided international affairs. My delegation is pleased to be a part of this world Organization. My delegation wishes to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We take this opportunity also to thank Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, for his exceptional performance in the conduct of the proceedings of the forty-ninth session. My delegation wishes to make due mention of the efforts and achievements of the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. His optimism as he confronts the challenges that face this Organization and his determination in his will to find solutions to many of the daunting problems of a world fraught with political, economic and social changes have contributed, in a large measure, to the successes and gains recorded by the United Nations. The success of the United Nations Mission in Haiti is one achievement to celebrate, when the duly-elected President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, was reinstated following the removal of the military almost a year ago. Democracy and the rule of law and order are of paramount importance to the peoples of the Caribbean region who cherish freedom, justice and law and order. Grenada continues to support United Nations initiatives undertaken in collaboration with other hemispheric organizations to build on the processes that are being put in place to ensure sound social and economic development where democracy can flourish. Grenada applauds the ongoing process of democratization in South Africa and supports the initiatives undertaken by the South African Government, assisted by the international community, to enhance the lives of its entire population. Grenada welcomes, too, the building of the peace process in the Middle East with the expansion of Arab control over Arab settlements within the West Bank, although it is recognized that much work has yet to be done if we are to see lasting peace in that region. My delegation is hopeful that similar attempts at peacemaking in the Balkans will result in bringing the warring parties together to work out a negotiated settlement to the conflict. The world stands at the threshold of a new era, a time of great challenges and a time of significant promise. The choices that we make will determine whether we experience economic, social and political successes or failures. The international economic environment is rapidly being transformed as new centres of economic power and new partnerships are established. Indeed, these new economic realities have important implications for the survival of small and vulnerable economies such as Grenada’s, which are so heavily dependent on a favourable external environment. It can hardly be disputed that the traditional economic and trade relations on which Grenada relied for so long are now being threatened and could shortly cease to exist. The process of adjustment to the new hemispheric challenges resulting from the entry into force of the North American Free Trade Agreement on 1 January 1994; the conclusion of the Uruguay Round agreements of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade; the establishment of the World Trade Organization; the call for the establishment of a free-trade area of the Americas by the year 2005; and the formation of the Association of Caribbean States will undoubtedly pose challenges which will require adjustments on the domestic level, particularly on the part of our manufacturers. Furthermore, these recently formed and soon to be established trading blocs will significantly transform the trade policy framework in which developing island economies will have to operate into the twenty-first century. While these will offer us new trading opportunities, particularly in the medium to long term, they will in the short term cause us to face many transitional problems, mainly because of the erosion of preferential access that we now enjoy in major markets of the developed world. It is in this context, therefore, that Grenada issues a call to the developed world to work with us as we formulate appropriate policy responses to realize the benefits from and adjust to the changes in the global trading system. It is to be emphasized that the new European Union regime for bananas, though not in essence an effect of the Uruguay Round, will result in major losses in export revenue for all the Windward Islands in the Caribbean. Moreover, the challenge of this limited preferential arrangement by some of our closest allies in the developed world is cause for serious concern. I must remind this distinguished gathering that the issue of bananas has much more than economic significance. Indeed, the heavy dependence on this agricultural commodity by thousands in our islands must — I repeat, must — be underscored. In fact, the destruction of the banana industry would lead to serious hardships and could constitute a threat to our traditionally sound democratic process. Sustainable human development in our small island States could be severely threatened. My delegation wishes to make it clear that, while Grenada embraces the philosophy of trade liberalization, tolerance and an understanding of our cause on the part of larger economies are necessary. We cannot hope to develop without a significant inflow of technical assistance, foreign capital and technology. We therefore call on the countries in the developed world to provide us with this much-needed assistance in order to ensure that we can participate effectively in this emerging “New World Trade Order”. My delegation will continue to argue that moves towards global trade liberalization and reciprocity should complement and not obstruct the efforts of less developed countries to implement positive structural reforms. Grenada, for its part, has already commenced the process of substantially reducing import tariffs and other barriers. What is now sought is a recognition of these initiatives and a negotiating framework in which our ability to achieve greater market access is enhanced, while our economic and financial restructuring can take place in a manner and time-frame appropriate to our special circumstances. 2 Grenada continues to support the view that special and preferential treatment cannot continue in perpetuity. But it must be recognized that the special needs of the relatively less developed countries must be taken into account. The challenge, therefore, is how to design an acceptable reciprocal arrangement among unequal partners that will promote prosperity through free trade and integration in our world without endangering the process of sustainable social and economic development. It is crucial, therefore, that the developed countries assist the developing world to create domestic capabilities that will enhance its capacity to draw benefits from trade liberalization and will soften the burden of adjustment to the new requirements of global free trade. The question of the environment and of sustainable economic development remains at the heart of our concerns. It is also a central issue for small island developing States in particular, and developing countries in general. If we continue to reaffirm that human beings are at the centre of sustainable development and that they have a right to a healthy and productive life in harmony with nature, action must be taken at all levels and, all the more so, at the international level, to facilitate the process. This would ensure that developing countries, and particularly small island developing States, are provided with the know-how and the resources to enable the implementation of the decisions and recommendations arising out of the United Nations Conference on the Environment and Development in Rio in 1992, the United Nations Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in 1994 in Bridgetown, Barbados and the many other significant global Conferences. The vulnerability of small island States and the threat to our fragile ecosystems were recently manifested by the passage of hurricanes Iris, Luis and Marilyn. Our economic viability and sustainable economic growth are indeed at stake. In this regard, Grenada looks forward to the fulfilment of pledged commitments by developed countries to assist small island developing States achieve sustainable development. The role of science and technology in development must be underscored. My delegation calls upon developed countries to provide developing countries with the necessary access to biotechnologies to promote and facilitate sustainable economic growth. Information technology and human resource development are key elements towards social and economic progress — elements which would enable us to improve our productivity and competitiveness in priority areas as we move into the twenty-first century. The United Nations was created by men of vision, courage and foresight who understood the need for cooperation among nations and for hope over despair. Undoubtedly, the United Nations, in its “Agenda for Development”, has succeeded in bringing to the world’s attention the need for a re-evaluation of the role of the United Nations in development, taking into account such critical issues as the empowerment of women, the alleviation of poverty and hunger and the link between development and population, human rights and the creation of an environment for world peace and security. The social forces of poverty are among the leading causes of environmental degradation and a significant contributor to the loss of biological diversity. Poverty and unemployment also contribute to greater social problems, among which is the illicit traffic in narcotics. Efforts to eradicate the traffic in illicit drugs can have little effect at the national and international levels unless commitments are made and agreements are entered into to develop programmes aimed at the alleviation of poverty. My delegation is hopeful that the follow-up to the World Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen in March this year, will embrace those principles which call for social inclusion and which facilitate the development of strategies to ensure that youth, the disabled and the elderly play a more meaningful role in social and economic development. Indeed, the Fourth World Conference on Women, which ended only last month in Beijing, has given impetus to the need for programmes that speak to the issues of women in development and, most critically, the empowerment of women in local communities, enabling their full participation at all levels in the process of national development. Grenada is encouraged by the new spirit of international cooperation built on a shared partnership between multilateral financial institutions and Governments. However, the models suggested for economic development have not been sufficiently tested and are often ill-suited to meet the needs of the society in which they are applied, sometimes resulting in disastrous social and economic consequences. While we seek to put in place all the necessary measures to ensure the efficient and effective management 3 of our domestic affairs, we strongly urge multilateral institutions to include in these models for development a component that provides skills training and, in particular, training in the use of technologies to enable young people to find productive employment in the private sector and to facilitate the process towards equitable social and economic development. My delegation also supports the United Nations response to security and international humanitarian needs and encourages greater emphasis on human-rights monitoring. We live in an era of changing norms and of emerging nations and democracies, where no institution or country can stand alone. In this connection, the reforms currently being undertaken within the United Nations system should yield more positive results — greater collaboration and cooperation on issues, rather than confrontation and disunity. New, emerging economic nations or Powers are eager to take their rightful place in institutions and agencies once dominated by traditional super-Powers. Grenada also believes that in this era of reform and restructuring within the United Nations due consideration should be given to a composition of the Security Council that reflects the geopolitical and economic realities of our time. On this auspicious occasion, as we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, let us reaffirm our commitment to the principles of the Charter which guides this Organization. Grenada not only wishes to emphasize adherence to these principles, but has worked to establish conditions under which all peoples may exercise their equal and inalienable rights. In his opening statement the President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session stated: “the United Nations has ceased to be an intergovernmental organization with a limited membership and has become the only international organization that is universal. Efforts must be made to ensure that all States that are not yet Members should seek to be admitted in the near future. For the same reason, the most serious penalty imposed on a Member State should never be expulsion, but rather suspension” for an indefinite period “, for the United Nations must, as a matter of principle, include all the world’s countries.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 1st meeting, p. 7) But as we meet today the Republic of China on Taiwan and its more than 21 million people remain excluded from participation and representation in the United Nations. It is on the basis of that principle of universality that Grenada urges all Members to consider that, in renewing our oaths, we should forthwith seek to right this wrong. The inclusion of the Republic of China will be an added contribution to global cooperation in fields such as trade, economic development, environmental protection, sustainable development and multilateral efforts to fight drug trafficking. Moreover, the Republic of China is committed to the promotion of international development assistance to developing countries. Grenada wishes to urge again that an ad hoc committee be set up at the earliest possible time to consider the special case of the Republic of China on Taiwan and respond positively to its wish to join this world Organization. My delegation is confident that improved cooperation between developed and developing countries and the consolidation of related agencies and programmes would lead to enhanced prospects for the discovery of solutions to global problems and for the promotion of sustainable economic, social and cultural development. As we look forward to celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the Untied Nations, and as individual nations formulate plans and strategies to move into the twenty-first century, which poses as many challenges as it presents opportunities, let us recommit ourselves to the noble principles of the Charter, guided by the spirit of partnership and cooperation, ever united in our efforts to achieve peace, democracy and prosperity for all our peoples. It gives me great pleasure to extend to the President, and to his friendly country, Portugal, our congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly for this historic session, which crowns 50 years of international work under the banner of the United Nations in the service of humanity, individuals and peoples. I should also like to express our profound appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, for his wise conduct of the work of the forty-ninth session and for his valuable efforts in the preparatory work for the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary. We now live in an age wherein the international map of political relations is being redrawn, side by side with the reshaping of the scales of economic relations and, probably, the essence of existing social and cultural systems. The universal nature of issues and the similarity of the problems facing our contemporary societies have become the principal feature of our world. Consequently, the only way to deal with such issues and problems is to promote and rationalize international cooperation, since the majority of the problems we face today cannot be dealt with unilaterally at a time when the fluctuations of financial markets, the transactions of transnational corporations and the impact of information networks and communication satellites all transcend the national boundaries of States. We cannot hope to succeed in dealing with problems against such a complex backdrop without international and collective action in the interests of the entire human race. In this, we see a very significant role for the United Nations in formulating the modern concepts needed in dealing with problems in such a difficult and complex era. Although the ending of the cold war did remove tremendous obstacles that, for so long, had adversely affected efforts of international cooperation in all fields, this, in itself, has not been conducive to the spontaneous emergence of a new international order based on legality, justice, and democracy, that is capable of maintaining peace and bringing prosperity to peoples. This requires a consensual vision of what the content and rules of such a new international order should be. It also requires the dissipation of the growing fears that many countries now harbour as a result of the tendency to entrench policies of double standards, to look for some ideological or intellectual foe to demonize and to make a target for criticism, international mobilization and techniques of subjugation. This can be seen clearly in the performance of the Security Council and in its hesitant posture when it comes to facing up to certain situations, probably because of the lack of the necessary political will, or to the fact that that will falls hostage to conflicting attitudes. Again, this may be due to the fact that we, as an international community, are still unable to develop a concept of a system of collective security that would be in consonance with the provisions of the United Nations Charter. In this connection, let us call to mind the tragedies of ethnic genocide perpetrated against the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Having done this, let us call to mind the ability, the inability or the ambivalence demonstrated in reacting to those international crimes and the adverse impact they have had on the credibility of the world order, of which the United Nations continues to be a principal cornerstone. We need to pause and review the collective-security system and how we can improve it. We must also consider the need for a parallel economic- and social-security system in the light of the global trend towards market economies and in the light also of the achievements made in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the related problems in the developing world, which constitutes the overwhelming majority of the human race. It is no longer possible to face up to the challenges of tomorrow with the methods of yesterday, especially that the concept of security is no longer limited to territories or national boundaries at a time when most armed conflicts take place within such national boundaries, and when the lack of economic and social development has become a universally grave problem. It follows from this that the challenge which now faces the international community represented by the United Nations has to do with the extent of the Organization’s ability to address such new issues, with the degree of its success in forging an international and democratic consensus in that regard, and with the presence or absence of the political will to enable the United Nations to perform its role through the provision of the resources it must have in order for it to do so. The United Nations has made an outstanding contribution towards the promotion of international awareness of issues which stand as milestones in the history of the twentieth century, prominent among which 5 are decolonization, the eradication of apartheid and dealing with the issues of economic and social development and human rights. Such concepts have now become the very foundations of civilized international behaviour. Having said this, we must say that what the future requires is a new universal social contract as I called for in my statement before the General Assembly at the forty- seventh session, in commenting on the Secretary-General’s “Agenda for Peace” submitted in 1992. A series of international conferences on children, on the environment, on human rights, on population, on social development and on women have provided the international community with a wealth of programmes of action and ideas which could provide solid basis for drawing up the universal social contract we propose in order for our work to lead to development, security and peace. Whether the United Nations is able to forge such consensus, will depend on its ability to close the credibility gap from which it has suffered over the past few years. No amount of administrative reform or restructuring, however great, would enable it to rise to the demands of this new era unless such reform is accompanied by the mobilization of the political will to support the United Nations and to uphold its credibility together with a process of conceptual reform that should be inspired by the ideals and objectives of the Charter and should aim at formulating a modern programme of action that responds to the realities, issues and challenges of today’s world. In order for the United Nations to lead international action in such directions, it must enjoy financial stability. Such stability cannot be achieved without our collective commitment to pay in full our assessed contributions to the Organization’s budget. Egypt hopes that the Member States shall seize the opportunity of the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Organization, truly a historic occasion, by issuing a declaration committing all Members, and especially all the States permanent members of the Security Council, to pay all assessed contributions and all arrears before the end of the year, to underscore our collective and genuine support for the Organization. The General Assembly has achieved a great deal over the past 50 years in the political, economic, social and environmental fields and has contributed to the establishment of principles of international conduct in the spheres of democracy, respect for human rights and the codification and development of the principles of international law. However, the present era is a time for reformulating international relations, which requires the Assembly to perform a new role that promotes our collective capacity in the areas of security, development and international cooperation. The Secretary-General’s initiatives have also contributed to initiating a discussion of such hot issues as preventive diplomacy, peace-building in post-conflict situations, and coordination between the United Nations and other international and regional bodies. Such discussions have shown that there is a growing tendency to attach increasing importance to such issues, particularly on the part of the developing countries, a matter which highlights the need to promote the focal role of the General Assembly in building international consensus on such important issues. The growing tendency to develop and reform the United Nations has focused attention on the Security Council’s role and its performance. It was only natural that the General Assembly should have focused on discussing the rules and procedures that the Security Council should follow, particularly in the areas that need to be reviewed in the light of the latest developments in international affairs. Any in-depth examination of the Council’s role in the light of such developments would highlight the fact that many of the substantive and procedural aspects of the Council’s work need to be reviewed, either by the Council itself or by the General Assembly if the Council should fail to do so. Since the end of the cold war, the Council’s performance has tended to be characterized by certain features of which stand out the ineffectiveness of some of its resolutions, which lend themselves to many diverse interpretations and the tendency of some of those resolutions to aim at achieving political objectives whose objectivity is often debatable. All such aspects have an undoubted effect on the Council’s credibility and efficacy. The ongoing consultations in the Working Groups on how to improve the methods and procedures relating to the imposition and lifting of sanctions by the Council highlight the concern felt by the Member States over such matters. The point is that, in such cases, there should be a minimum level of safeguards, through the application of a set of agreed, uniform rules and procedures, in order for the imposing and lifting of sanctions to take place in a manner that strikes a balance between, on the one hand, the interests of the international community and, on the other, the extent of the human suffering endured by peoples on whom the sanctions are imposed. 6 The increasing importance the international community attaches to the question of reforming the Security Council has focused attention on a number of issues such as the need to improve the Council’s practices and procedures, improve its performance and underscore the need for transparency in its work. Egypt is convinced that there exists consensus of opinion that there is a need to increase the membership of the Council in order to expand international participation in discharging the major responsibility of the Organization and, thereby, to promote the Council’s efficiency. We are also aware of the heavy responsibilities that go with membership in the Council. Proceeding from this and given Egypt’s regional and international contributions in the contexts of Arab, African and Middle Eastern affairs and other spheres, together with its constant support of United Nations activities, we believe that Egypt is well placed in the ranks of the States qualified to bear the responsibility of membership in a new and expanded Security Council that would be more equitable and balanced in its representation of the different regions of the world. When we speak of expanding Security Council membership, we do not have in mind a mere increase in the number of permanent seats allocated to the developed countries at the expense of the developing countries. What we have in mind is striking the necessary balance between the developed and the developing countries, by reinforcing the Council with a number of developing countries that are capable of shouldering such a responsibility and are capable of having the necessary impact at the regional and the international levels, in a manner that would make the Council more representative of international reality and, thereby, much more effective in dealing with international issues. On the other hand, and from a more practical point of view, we believe that the ideas put forward by Egypt and by other countries concerning the addition of a number of new, rotating seats for a specific number of States would afford a larger number of States the opportunity of sharing in exercising the responsibilities of membership in the Council. We believe that this would promote the Council’s role, enhance its credibility as a body that is truly representative and enrich it with the membership of countries that play important and effective roles in their regions. I should like to seize this opportunity to put on record that Egypt welcomes the consultations the Security Council conducts with the countries that contribute troops to peace- keeping operations, and call upon the Council to adhere to the spirit of the provisions of Article 44 of the Charter by institutionalizing such consultations so that they may become an integral part of the decision-making process in relation to any peace-keeping operation. This would increase the chances of success for all such operations. Here I must point out the vital role that could be performed by regional organizations and arrangements, in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter, in maintaining international peace and security in general and in the area of preventive diplomacy in particular. In this connection, I should like to mention that Egypt has set up the “Cairo Centre for the Settlement of Disputes and the Maintenance of Peace in Africa”, and that we are confident that this Centre will receive the necessary assistance from the United Nations Department of Peace- keeping Operations and from States with the necessary expertise in this field. The founding of the United Nations was contemporaneous with the beginning, 50 years ago, of a sad chapter in the evolution of the question of Palestine that triggered the Arab-Israeli conflict, with all the wars and tragedies that conflict entailed. Now, half a century later, we witness the beginnings of a comprehensive settlement to this question and the progress towards an Arab-Israeli peace. The United Nations has left its imprint on all aspects of the question of Palestine and the Arab-Israeli conflict. Some of its earlier resolutions sparked off the Arab-Israeli wars. Some others have laid the foundations for a peaceful settlement, such as Security Council resolution 242 (1967), and resolution 425 (1978) on Lebanon, the resolutions on Al-Quds, the refugees and the Palestinian people’s right to self-determination. A few days ago, in Washington, we witnessed the signing of the transitional-phase agreement by the Palestinian President, Yasser Arafat, and the Israeli Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin. This is a historic achievement towards resolving the Palestinian problem, as it initiates the second phase of the agreement concluded between the two parties and expands Palestinian authority to the West Bank. This is a sound move that brings Palestine closer to having a full-fledged Government with its legislative, executive and judiciary branches within a preliminary regional framework. Although the agreement is transitional and represents a delicate balance of commitments between the emerging entity and Israel, it is undoubtedly a major positive step at the strategic level. In practical terms, 7 paves the way for the partition of the land of Palestine between Israel and the Palestinian entity which would reach completion only through the establishment of the Palestinian State on all the territories of Gaza and the West Bank. It is important to note here that the Palestinian parliament, which will be elected within a few months, will represent also the Palestinian people in Al-Quds. Early on, Egypt had opted for the role of pioneer in the long march towards peace in the Middle East. Camp David and Taba, which were two outstanding milestones on this long march, have now been joined by a host of other landmarks along the road to peace. However, we are fully aware of the obstacles and pitfalls that are still in the way of a comprehensive peace, both on the Syrian and the Lebanese tracks, which must be reactivated urgently indeed, and on the Palestinian track, where everything depends on the honest and immediate implementation of the agreement and serious preparations for the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations on the final status. Egypt looks forward to a day in the near future when its vision of a new Middle East would materialize. From this very rostrum, at the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, on behalf of Egypt, I called upon the States and peoples of the Middle East to give thought to the shape of our relations in the post-settlement period. I invited them to join us in formulating the makings and foundations of new relations between the countries of the region that would rest squarely on three pillars: political settlement, economic and social development and regional security and arms control. Our views in all this proceed from the conviction that peace will never become permanent and will never take root without a balanced and constructive interaction that would serve the common interests of all parties. I have touched upon the recent developments in the area of political settlement. I should like to add here that the framework of this settlement is still fragile and that it needs a great deal of prudence and caution. What is needed above all else in this respect is that all parties should abstain from taking any unilateral action that might infringe the rights of the other parties or pre-empt the final outcome of the negotiations. The Economic Summit meeting for the Middle East and North Africa, held in Casablanca in October 1994, was an important step for regional economic cooperation. The participants in that meeting may recall Egypt’s insistence that genuine peace is peace that prevails amongst peoples and that genuine peace is that which serves as a foundation for economic cooperation. As we move closer to the Amman summit, scheduled to be held towards the end of October 1995, we reiterate that belief and call for real progress on the different tracks of the peace process in order to provide the necessary conditions for promoting cooperation in the region. In this connection, Egypt believes that it is the issues of arms control and regional security that will determine the form and extent of cooperation amongst the countries of the region in the future. Egypt views security, as the principal mainstay of the edifice of peace in the Middle East, and believes that it should rest squarely on the firm foundation of equal rights and obligations for all parties in the region with regard to disarmament, so that equal security may be achieved at the minimum level of armament and guaranteed through the defining of common rights and interests and not through the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction. Proceeding from this, we call for initiating concrete steps towards: - Israel’s accession to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and subjecting its nuclear facilities to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) international regime of safeguards and inspection. - Engaging in discussion aimed at establishing a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. - Reviewing the relevant international agreements on disarmament, by the countries of the region, with a view to harmonizing their positions and commitments regarding those agreements. I seize this opportunity to call upon the permanent Members of the Security Council which sponsored the resolution relating to the Middle East in the Review and Extension Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to take concrete steps that would ensure the accession to the Treaty by all States of the region and to initiate the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East in accordance with the Egyptian initiative which has enjoyed the consensus of all the parties concerned for more than 15 years now. Speaking of the Middle East, I shall now address the situation in the countries neighbouring Egypt. I shall 8 begin by extending a brotherly greeting to the brotherly people of Sudan and say that only what is right and true will prove to be right and true in the end and that things will inescapably revert to normal in a Sudan that will be free from the politics of terrorism under the guise of religion. The historical ties of friendship that took root over the ages between our two peoples will continue to flow as strongly as the flow of the river Nile through our two countries. Egypt, which does not change its position on such matters, clearly reaffirms its support for the unity and territorial integrity of Sudan within its political borders. On the western borders of Egypt, we can state that Libya now has the firm political will to put an end to the Lockerbie crisis by accepting the trial of the accused and by working for practical solutions within the framework of implementing the relevant Security Council resolutions. In the interests of justice and fairness to the families of the victims, any objective view of the problem would underscore the importance of respecting international legality by accelerating the process of trying those accused of perpetrating an international crime. On the other hand, the stability of the Middle East requires the achievement of the security and stability of the Gulf. In Iraq, the suffering of the Iraqi people continues as that people lives under very cruel conditions. Even the territorial integrity of Iraq is being threatened continuously, a matter which we shall never accept or acquiesce in. We do look forward to the day in the near future when the suffering of the Iraqi people will come to an end and Iraq will resume exercising its rights and obligations as a responsible member of the Arab family and the international community. Now that the Iraqi Government has recognized the sovereignty of Kuwait and its international borders in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions, we hope that resolving the problem of the prisoners of war and the detainees, side by side with the fact that it has complied with the provisions of Security Council resolutions on weapons of mass destruction will be the first major step towards easing the sanctions imposed on Iraq as stipulated in resolution 687 (1991). We also hope that this will lead to practical steps by the Council towards the establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East in implementation of paragraph 14 of the said resolution, the only paragraph of the resolution which has remained unimplemented. Across the gulf, we invite Iran, with which the Arab world entertains well-known links and well-known differences at the same time, to seek to settle the problem of the Arab islands in the Gulf, namely: Abu Musa and Greater and Lesser Tunb Islands and to respect the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates. This will no doubt serve the interests of stability in that part of the Middle East and work in favour of normal Arab-Iranian relations. Allow me to state candidly that we are finding it increasingly difficult to promote moral support for the United Nations because of a general feeling of frustration vis-à-vis what is going on in the world. Such frustration was inevitable in view of the destruction, killings and war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina against the backdrop of an unjustified dereliction of duty on the part of the international community vis-à-vis those atrocities. This, very naturally, has led to a great deal of questioning about the double standards which have come to be the main characteristic of the so-called new international order and have deprived that order of credibility even before it took concrete shape. Allowing the United Nations-declared “safe areas” to fall has shaken the international order and raised doubts regarding the effectiveness of the peace-keeping system. The continuing deterioration of the situation in Bosnia has led the Islamic countries to take a decision to reject the applicability of the arms embargo on Bosnia since it contradicts the right to legitimate self-defence enshrined in the United Nations Charter, when necessary. However, we welcome the current international peace efforts aimed at halting the bloody conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, provided that such efforts and policies do not lead to Bosnia’s partitioning or fragmentation, and provided that the peace plans will prove to be honest in their formulations and objectives. We also welcome the parties’ success in reaching a declaration of principles on a regional settlement and hope that the ongoing negotiations will lead to a comprehensive, just and viable solution which would respect legality and help bring stability to the region. Proceeding from our constant support for the rights of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and their just cause, we accept what their Government deems acceptable, especially that, as the whole world has seen, President Alija Izetbegovic has shown admirable flexibility and has responded positively to international legality throughout all the stages of the crisis. At the same time, we underline the need for the negotiation process not to ignore the fundamental principles 9 established by the United Nations in dealing with this problem. In particular, we underscore here, the following principles: First: Any attempt to treat the aggressor on the same footing as the victim of aggression is unacceptable. Pressure should not be brought to bear on the weaker party under the pretext of searching for applicable solutions. Second: The territorial map of Bosnia and Herzegovina should not be redrawn in a manner that would consecrate the results of aggression, expansionism and ethnic cleansing. Third: Recognizing an entity for the Bosnian Serbs inside the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina requires the international community to deal very carefully indeed with the lack of political, military and institutional balance between the parties. It also requires international guarantees to ensure the implementation of any eventual settlement. This highlights the importance of arming the government of Bosnia Herzegovina with the necessary defensive means that would enable it to exercise its legitimate right to self- defence in consonance with the Charter, so that this Member State of the United Nations may not continue to be exposed to destruction or fragmentation should the Serbs renege on the commitment to respect Bosnia’s territorial integrity. Fourth: The measures of collective security measures should be applied, if necessary, to support the negotiation process until the plan for a regional settlement is put into effect. Fifth: War criminals must be punished for the crimes they have perpetrated. Short of this, it will be farcical to talk of upholding human rights in any part of the world and expect people to take such talk seriously. As we speak of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I must commend the efforts of the United Nations Protection Force and salute, in particular, the sons of my country, the Egyptian officers and soldiers who are bravely carrying out their duties under very difficult conditions. I should like also, to stress in this connection the need for the United Nations Forces should continue to carry out their mandate until the Bosnian Government army becomes capable of shouldering its tasks in defence of Bosnia’s territorial integrity, independence and sovereignty. The fact that the Economic and Social Council allocated the high-level segment of its last substantive session to discussing the problems of development in Africa is proof of the United Nations awareness of the serious challenges facing economic and social development in the continent. It is essential to intensify international efforts aimed at restructuring the economies of African countries, diversifying their exports and strengthening regional integration amongst the countries of Africa, particularly since the Abuja agreement which established the African Economic Community has entered into force. Egypt’s awareness of the seriousness and urgency of these challenges and of the need to face up to them led it to call for a special extraordinary ministerial session of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). The meeting took place in March 1995 and adopted the Cairo Plan of Action for economic and social development in Africa. Even a cursory look at the overall situation in Africa would reveal that the urgent need for a climate of peace and stability, makes it necessary for the United Nations to increase its contribution towards the creation of such a climate, in coordination and cooperation with the Organization of African Unity. This highlights the importance of the efforts deployed by the African countries towards supporting and developing the OAU’s mechanism for the prevention, management and resolution of disputes in Africa. Such efforts require the financial and technical support from both the United Nations and the international community. As I speak, tension persists in many parts of Africa. In particular, Rwanda and Burundi, Egypt’s sisterly partners in great resource, the Nile, continue to be in the grip of a situation that endangers the stability and security of a large area of Africa. This calls for solutions that would allow everyone to live in a society based on justice and equality. Egypt believes that the proposed regional conference for the countries of the Great Lakes region must elaborate regional policies aimed at finding solutions to the problems of the countries of the region from an overall perspective that would take into account the plight of refugees, ethnic conflicts and other matters. Although the primary responsibility for finding solutions to such problem rests with the countries of the region, which must manifest a spirit of tolerance and moderation if they are to achieve national reconciliation and social peace, the United Nations is called upon to support all the efforts deployed in that direction, in line with the Secretary- General’s oft-repeated pledge that the United Nations shall pay attention on an equal footing to the problems of all regions of the world. 10 In Somalia, Egypt hopes that all parties will adhere to African values and listen to the voice of reason in order for them to extricate the Somali people from its cruel plight. Such a review of the hotbeds of tension and crises in Africa should not detract from the importance of the positive developments that have taken place in Africa over the past two years, particularly in Mozambique, Angola and more recently in Liberia. These have been truly important achievements which were made possible by good intentions and through the effective role played by the United Nations and the OAU. We do hope that all parties, especially in Angola and Liberia, will remain committed to the agreements to restore peace and normal life in these two sister countries. I turn now to the world economy. In this respect, allow me to state that, although the responsibility for achieving development and improving economic performance falls mainly on the shoulders of the States concerned, we believe that the solidarity of the international community — through the establishment of a propitious economic environment and extending a helping hand — is a very important element in the area of development. The growing marginalization of the role of the developing countries in an increasingly interdependent world could adversely affect stability. We heartily welcome the ideas which the Secretary-General set out in his Agenda for Development and hope that the General Assembly’s deliberations on the Agenda will contribute to correcting the current serious imbalances. There is a need, as a matter of priority that should be addressed with courage and creativity, to reformulate policies and solutions to the problem of the external debt of the developing countries that would help create a climate of equal opportunity amongst peoples and nations and make use of the latent potential of many parts of the world in paving the way towards balanced and comprehensive development at the threshold of the twenty-first century. The liberalization of international trade is an essential ingredient of economic growth. However, this liberalization requires rationalization in the light of the present structural imbalances and the huge and widening gap between the developing and the developed countries. Moreover, the selective policies pursued by some developed countries in liberalizing their trade and the disguised protectionist policies which are put in place behind a façade of environmental, human rights or other considerations, contradict the spirit and the call for liberalizing international trade and would lead to the worsening and entrenchment of the present imbalances. We welcome the World Trade Organization as it begins its work. We hope that rectifying those imbalances will be one of its most important concerns in the future. We should also like to stress the need for the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to continue to perform its role as the international negotiating forum that is qualified to build consensus on issues relating to free trade and development and also as the very valuable source of technical assistance and information on world trade for the developing countries. Changes on the international economic arena make it necessary to embark on a broad review of the role, the capabilities and the structures of international financing institutions with a view to enabling those institutions to respond to those changes and to the requirements of comprehensive and sustainable development in a manner that would reflect the spirit of democracy and reform. There is no doubt that the phenomenon of terrorism has become cause for deep concern to many peoples who have become fed up with criminal acts that aim at terrorizing whole societies and with the export of terrorism by countries that, having allowed themselves to become safe havens for extremism and bases for assassins and criminals, have hosted terrorists and provided them with refuge, protection and assistance. In this connection, I should like to point out that events have shown that terrorism is not limited to any specific geographical area or to any culture or religion. Therefore, it is not wise for some to try to pretend that Islam is synonymous with extremism. Also, it would be absolutely unfair to ignore the fundamental difference between Islam, a religion of tolerance that upholds human values, and the terrorism practised by certain fundamentalist, so-called religious groups that are deviants from Islam. It is therefore incumbent upon us to implement the Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism, which we adopted last year. Let us close the door in the face of those whose hands are smeared with the blood of innocent victims and develop a strict legal regime to prosecute terrorists and try them for the heinous crimes they perpetrate to the detriment of international stability and security. In conclusion, I should like to pay tribute to the outstanding role and sincere efforts of the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, to enhance and revitalize the 11 United Nations so that it may cope with the realities of our era and the expectations of our peoples for peace, security, development, justice and equality. Egypt is proud to see one of its prominent sons at the helm of the United Nations, at this important juncture of its history and during this critical era of the history of mankind. Now that we are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we find ourselves still far from achieving the noble goals and objectives enshrined in its Charter. On the threshold of a new century and a new millennium, we have to work together to support the United Nations and strengthen its capabilities. This is an absolute necessity if we are to look to the future with confidence and hope for a better life for everyone. The United Nations is celebrating its fiftieth anniversary. Today, it is up to us to take stock of its progress and its successes, as well as its and shortcomings since its inception, but also, and in particular, to consider and assess the experience it has gained, in order to provide a firmer basis for its future, which, after all, is closely linked with the future of mankind. The people of Burundi, whom I have the honour to represent in this Assembly, set particular store by this session, which should galvanize all the Member States of our Organization to work for the progress and the survival of the world as a whole. In Burundi, a number of activities to promote awareness of the purposes and principles of the United Nations have been undertaken. We can assure the Assembly that our country duly acknowledges the eminent role that the United Nations has played and continues to play in helping Burundi return to the road of peace and security. We are pleased that the presidency of this session of the General Assembly, which should be the springboard for its revitalization, has been entrusted to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who has been blessed with great intellectual and moral qualities and wide political and diplomatic experience. His country and mine enjoy friendly relations in all areas. What has already been said about him here show that the congratulations my delegation extends to him are well deserved and justify the assistance it will be pleased to give him as a contribution to the success of his noble mission. We would also like to pay a sincere tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire. Throughout his term of office, he applied himself to the tasks resulting from the present developments in the United Nations. In this connection, Foreign Minister Amara Essy has worked wholeheartedly to promote our Organization across the world and has brilliantly championed the strengthening of the United Nations and the enhancement of its prestige. This is an excellent opportunity to express our sincere gratitude to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations, whom I had the pleasure to receive in Bujumbura last July. We are extremely grateful to him for his profound commitment to peace, security and development throughout the world. The resounding appeal for peace and national reconciliation he made to the people of Burundi in particular and to Africa in general still rings in our ears. Two years have passed since, from this very rostrum, His Excellency President Melchior Ndadaye, who was swept to power in Burundi following democratic elections, addressed a message of peace, friendship, brotherhood and solidarity to the General Assembly. Since the contemptible assassination of President Ndadaye on 21 October 1993, my country has laboured under a political, institutional, social and economic crisis that persists to this day. Nevertheless, despite the devastation and the political and ethnic massacres, the people of Burundi did not yield to despair. In a surge of optimism, the registered political parties and the representatives of civilian society held negotiations and in-depth discussions on how to bring the country out of the abyss into which the enemies of the fatherland had plunged it. After long and arduous debates, the Convention of Government was signed on 10 September 1994; this was followed by the restoration of the presidency and the establishment of a National Coalition Government. We greatly appreciated the decisive contribution made by the United Nations to the people of Burundi’s return to peace and security. When the crisis broke out, the Secretary-General sent a Special Envoy to the scene. Following that, he appointed His Excellency Ambassador Ahmedou Ould Abdallah as Special Representative to Burundi, and we extend our profound thanks to him for his patient and tireless efforts to bring the various political partners together, despite their often deep differences of opinion at the height of the crisis. The United Nations sent to Burundi two successive delegations made up of distinguished ambassadors to the Security Council and headed by a distinguished African statesman, His Excellency Ambassador Ibrahim Gambari of Nigeria, to offer us advice and to bring us a message of peace and comfort. Other delegations of the United Nations and various international bodies in the United Nations system came to Burundi to demonstrate their support and solidarity. In the context of the promotion of human rights and education for peace and tolerance, a United Nations Centre for Human Rights and a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Peace House were established in Burundi. The Organization of African Unity (OAU) also deserves our profound thanks because it has, from the very beginning of the crisis, sought appropriate solutions to enable Burundi to regain peace and stability. The work done by the pan-African organization is primarily to the 23 credit of its Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, who displayed considerable diplomatic and human skills on behalf of Burundi. His work was later carried on by his Special Representative, His Excellency Ambassador Léandre Bassolé of Burkina Faso. We should like to extend our thanks to all of the friendly countries which have assisted us in various ways and continue to do so, particularly in the brother countries which gave shelter to Burundi refugees. We are working to enable our compatriots to return home safely and we are coming to grips with the problem of displaced persons. The Convention of Government, which was mentioned earlier and the first anniversary of which we have just celebrated, gave us an opportunity to set up State institutions and organs as well as various kinds of political and legal machinery that could restore confidence and cooperation among the political partners. The first mission assigned us under this Convention is to restore peace and security in the country. Then it will be a question of restoring the rights of refugees and displaced persons, that is, to facilitate their return home with the assurance that in an initial phase they will be assured of the basic necessities until they can provide for their own needs. The Government also intends to initiate the economic recovery and national reconstruction programme. However, if our subregion continues to produce refugees and to serve as a suitable place for illicit trafficking in deadly weapons of war, this situation would constitute an ongoing source of insecurity and destabilization for the countries concerned. Last February in Bujumbura, when we hosted the Regional Conference on Refugees, Repatriates and Displaced Persons for the Great Lakes region, organized under the auspices of the OAU in cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, a number of conclusions were drawn and resolutions adopted. Today we recognize that the road to be travelled remains a long one because the resolutions that were adopted remain a dead letter. Indeed, it is important for the international community to become better mobilized to help us eradicate the basic causes of the continued instability and fragility of our lakes region. In our opinion it would be necessary, first of all, for everyone to have the same understanding of our history and, above all, to accept it as it is. They should also give serious consideration to lasting, definitive solutions that must be found for this conflict situation. For our part, we consider that the major problem in Burundi lies in the conceptions of, access to and management of power among the various political actors in the national community. We can affirm that the conflict that Burundi has experienced is far from being ethnic, as many political and media circles have alleged. The basis of the problem is essentially political, which is why solutions to this problem are condemned to be political also. We must reject and denounce the advocates of the policy of exclusion, segregation and extermination, which give rise to crises, instability and repeated conflicts. We condemn the ideology of hatred, of violence and of genocide exploited by so many politicians who wish to attain power or wish to remain in power at any cost. The crisis which we are experiencing dates from the beginning of our independence and has deep roots in the organization and direction of the country during the colonial period. The various regimes which have succeeded one another in Burundi were powerless to resolve this situation. The problem must be addressed by the people of Burundi, assisted by the international community and not replaced by it. We rely on the regional Conference on Security, Stability and Development in the Great Lakes region, which will be organized under the auspices of the United Nations, and which will seek to find appropriate, lasting and definitive solutions. We should like to thank the Secretary-General of the United Nations for having designated an African diplomat to take charge of the preparations for this Conference, to which my country attaches real importance. Moreover, my delegation appeals to neighbouring countries to help us neutralize the efforts of those who, working from their own territory, have endeavoured to destabilize ours. It would indeed be illusory to want to extinguish a fire from within when, outside, militias, armed bands or malevolent groups are organizing and training themselves in order to attack Burundi. Today, the country must face attacks waged jointly by the Party for the Liberation of the Hutu People (PALIPEHUTU), the National Liberation Front (FROLINA), the National Council — improperly labelled the Democratic Defence Council (CNDD) — and its armed branch, the curiously named Forces for the Defence of Democracy (FDD). These groups, in collusion 24 with military-political forces, are responsible for the genocide in neighbouring Rwanda. In addition to these attacks there is another destabilizing force, the pirate radio station cynically baptized “Voice of the People”, or, “Democracy Radio”, which inculcates ethnic hatred within the Burundi population and which is working towards the dissemination of a neo-nazi-type ideology in this region of Central Africa at the end of this twentieth century. We are relying on the valuable assistance of our neighbouring and brotherly country, with which we share geography and history and with which we maintain the closest relations, to dismantle this medium of hatred, which is reminiscent in many ways of the infamous Free Radio-Television of the Thousand Hills (la Radio-Télévision Libre des milles collines) (RTLM), which galvanized the massacres last year in Rwanda. We should like to reaffirm the unswerving attachment of the Government of Burundi to the principles of good- neighbourliness and non-interference in the internal affairs of another State. We respect the bilateral, regional and international agreements and conventions to which Burundi has freely subscribed. In following these commitments the Government of Burundi hopes that our immediate neighbours and our partners will properly understand our problems and the problems that affect our region. They should understand the complexity and delicacy of the latter so that in trying to help us find solutions they will avoid pouring oil on the fire. We know that, alone, we cannot arrive at harmonious, satisfactory and lasting solutions, and that is why we welcome with open arms the various forms of mediation aimed at helping us get out of the present crisis and at producing stability within our subregion. However, we would not want such mediation to lead to other, unexpected problems linked to undue interference in our internal affairs. We have begun a campaign for the restoration of peace, with the support of the Government, the National Assembly and the political parties that are signatories to the Convention of Government. We are resolved to dismantle the armed gangs, be they within or outside our country. But our efforts to restore peace will be futile if we do not work towards eradicating the phenomenon of impunity, which has been aggravated by our country’s current crisis. In this context, a request was sent to the United Nations to establish an international judicial commission of inquiry into the crimes committed in Burundi. We express our gratitude to the Security Council for the establishment of this commission. Along these lines, we are planning to organize, in the near future, a national debate on the fundamental problems affecting the country, with a view to the adoption of a national covenant for peaceful coexistence between the various constituent parts of the nation and also of a new Constitution reflecting the realities now facing the country. Lately, the President of the Republic, His Excellency Mr. Sylvestre Ntibantunganya, has been consulting various socio-political groups — professionals, the military, representatives of religious communities, women and disaffected youth — to solicit their suggestions for ensuring the speedy restoration of peace in Burundi. The conclusion is inescapable: everyone aspires to peace, justice and development. That is why our partners should not be discouraged, nor should they despair, when it comes to Burundi. The programme of national reconciliation and reconstruction will require a mobilization of appreciable funds, which Burundi alone cannot marshal. The reinstallation and reintegration of our displaced persons, expatriates and those who have been dispersed, the reconstruction of the socio-economic infrastructures that were destroyed, the training of our young people and the relaunching of the overall productive apparatus — these are my Government’s major concerns. We call upon the international community to support us unwaveringly in order that we may implement this vast programme. We hope that our partners will respond in a positive way at the General Round Table of donor countries, scheduled to be held in Geneva shortly, so that the necessary financial resources for the reconstruction of Burundi can be mobilized. With respect to the Great Lakes subregion, Burundi encourages the Government of Rwanda to continue its policy of national reconciliation and to create the conditions of peace and security conducive to the return of Rwandan refugees to their homeland. For its part, the international community must ensure that those responsible for the genocide in Rwanda are punished in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. We strongly urge the countries of the subregion to cooperate fully with the International Tribunal created for this purpose. 25 As regards the crisis in Somalia, my country hopes that the protagonists will agree to form a government based on a broad consensus. We invite our Somali brothers to lay down their arms and to work towards national reconciliation — the only road to lasting peace — and to devote themselves to rebuilding their country. As for Angola, we welcome the constructive dialogue that has been established between President José Eduardo dos Santos and the leader of UNITA, Jonas Savimbi. This is a positive development, which we hope will lead to a complete cessation of the hostilities that have taken so many lives among the brotherly people of Angola. We also nourish the hope that the Lusaka Peace Agreement will be implemented strictly by the parties so that peace can be restored to Angola. We urge the United Nations to speed up the planned deployment of forces in the context of the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III). We also welcome the developments in Liberia, in the Middle East and in the former Yugoslavia. We hope that the recent events in the former Yugoslavia will not inflame the situation further or stand in the way of a solution, which has been awaited for so long by the international community. A look at the political configuration of the United Nations reveals a strange paradox: at a time when hotbeds of tension are concentrated in Africa, at a time when poverty there has broken every record and at a time when natural and man-made disasters are proliferating, many international forums are seeking to reduce our continent to the status of a poor relative. At a time when the golden jubilee of our Organization is being commemorated, Africa is the only one of the five continents to be excluded from permanent representation on the Security Council. But the dangers that loom over Africa, both from within and from outside, require that it be at the centre of deliberations and decisions on peace and security. Aside from this reality, the democratization of the United Nations is tantamount to a categorical imperative. Thus we strongly urge the establishment of a genuine parallel between the emergence of democracy on the scale of the Member States and the reform of the United Nations, so that Africa could be given access to permanent seats on the Security Council. Under the principle of democracy, the projected reforms of the United Nations system should reserve for our continent the lion’s share, for two reasons: first, Africa, as a vast collective entity, has the right to permanent seats on the Security Council; and, secondly, Africa has the right to participate in the Council in a manner commensurate with its numerical significance. Once this twofold requirement has been recognized, Africa will be prepared to select those countries that are best suited politically, diplomatically, economically and demographically to sit permanently on the Security Council, on behalf of the entire continent. On the eve of the twenty-first century, Burundi is keenly aware that the United Nations remains the source of salvation for the human race. My country reiterates and reaffirms its unswerving dedication to the ideals and objectives of the United Nations. As a concrete manifestation of that dedication, the Government of Burundi — even though it has borne the brunt of the effects of the international economic situation and of its own, two-year-long, severe national crisis — has just disbursed more than $76,000 by way of contribution to the regular budget of the United Nations. Nevertheless, Burundi must stress the imperative need for the world Organization to become an ever-present shield for peace, security and progress. To achieve this, it must evolve with the times and become a genuine universal forum in which all countries, regardless of their political, economic, geographical and economic disparities, can join together and unite in order to take decisions on the future of humankind. This metamorphosis, to which the countries of the United Nations so strongly aspire, requires of Member States and other accredited agencies working to that end not only the political will but also and above all the creative genius to revitalize and breathe new life into the Organization, allowing it to meet the challenges as this century enters its twilight years and to adapt to the vital issues of a planet moving inexorably into the third millennium. First of all, I wish to extend to Mr. Freitas do Amaral and his glorious country, Portugal, my delegation’s heartfelt congratulations on his election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. I am certain that his leadership talent and experiences will enable us to meet the serious challenges that we face in today’s quickly changing world. I wish to assure him of our full cooperation. On behalf of the Kingdom of Cambodia, I would like to join the heads of delegation who have preceded me in the pleasant task of expressing thanks and admiration to the President of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for the tremendous contribution he made over the course of a productive and historic year. The Kingdom of Cambodia wishes also to thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his strong and effective work, which has been so instrumental in the success of this Organization. We are all aware of the Secretary-General’s great achievement in his handling of Cambodia’s problem. My country is very proud of him. Cambodia now enjoys peace, freedom and democracy thanks to the representatives of all the Member States, who have contributed so much in this peace process with us. Cambodia wishes to pay special tribute to the courage of the United Nations peace-keepers who died for peace and freedom on Cambodian soil alongside thousands of other compatriots. The Royal Government of Cambodia is working in close cooperation with the Special Representative of the Secretary-General in Cambodia, the Honourable Benny Widyono. His presence is of the utmost importance to Cambodia. He performs his duty with excellence and is highly commended by the Government and the people of Cambodia. The Kingdom of Cambodia appreciated the work of the Honourable Justice Michael Kirby, the Secretary- General’s Special Representative for Human Rights in Cambodia. Through close cooperation and regular consultations with him, and the United Nations Centre for Human Rights, steps are being taken to improve the human rights situation in the country. Cambodia, however, continues to support the presence and the work of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights. It is making valuable contributions to and recommendations for the improvement of the overall situation in Cambodia. It is with great honour and pride that I address this fiftieth session of the General Assembly, for the first time, as the representative of the Kingdom of Cambodia. The Royal Government today, under the leadership of both the First Prime Minister, His Royal Highness Prince Norodom Ranariddh, and the Second Prime Minister, Samdech Hun Sen, is now more than two years old. It was the result of a democratic election organized and supervised by the United Nations. It is a product of the multilateral efforts of the United Nations with the close cooperation of the Cambodian people, under the wise guidance and leadership of His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk Varman. Through the determination of the Cambodian people, the Kingdom of Cambodia today has emerged from a long period of destruction and war, with many challenges and opportunities to build a better future. In the past two years, the Royal Government has made important progress and achieved some of the most important work in nation-building, peace-building and economic development. After the United Nations-sponsored election in May 1993 the two main political parties combined their efforts and formed a coalition Government, which has shown itself to be able to work closely in an efficient manner. These achievements were only possible with the support and assistance of the international community. With peace-building, Cambodia has further consolidated sustainable peace, security and stability, which are the necessary conditions for economic development and nation-building. We have been dealing with the task of reforming the military, the police and the 11 administration for some time now, in order to improve the public sectors so that they can serve the needs and interests of the Cambodian people and the private sector. At the same time, the Royal Government and the National Assembly are working very closely together to make Cambodia a State based on the rule of law. Cambodia is now concentrating more effort, time, energy and funds on nation-building and economic development. In this respect, Cambodia is a nation in the making. On the economic front, Cambodia is working closely with international financial institutions, particularly the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Asian Development Bank and the Caisse Française pour le Developpement to ensure that the process of rehabilitation and transition to a market economy is well under way. Despite some difficulties during the period immediately following the elections, progress in economic development thus far is very encouraging. According to the latest report from the IMF, dated 15 September 1995, “The improved financial discipline has led to an increasingly stable economic environment, as is evident in the stability of the exchange rate after the wide fluctuations of previous years.” For the period from 1995 to 1997 the Kingdom of Cambodia is targeting a 7 per cent growth rate. The inflation rate was brought down from 200 per cent for the period before the election to 31 per cent in 1993 and to 18 per cent in 1994. An inflation rate of below 10 per cent has been projected for 1995. These improvements are linked to the pursuit of structural reforms in the financial sector, civil service, military and public enterprises. It is important to note here that a privatization law was adopted in December 1994, and private investments approved and formalized by the Council for the Development of Cambodia from August 1994 to May 1995 are estimated at $2.5 billion, compared to $621 million of private investment approved during the 1991 to 1993 period. The Royal Government is pleased to inform you, Sir, and the Assembly that the National Programme to Rehabilitate and Develop Cambodia has made great progress in articulating the Government’s overall and sectoral policies and programmes. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) First Country Programme for Cambodia for 1994-1995 has helped establish three important priorities: first, modernizing and restructuring the country; secondly, poverty alleviation and sustainable management of the environment; and, thirdly, natural resources. In this regard, Cambodia wishes to thank the Secretary-General for his appeal for the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s, especially for the five main objectives: first, the lifting of the debt burden; secondly, a greater flow of finance to the least developed countries (LDCs); thirdly, a more favourable trade environment for the LDCs; fourthly, encouragement for partnership in LDCs; and, fifthly, a proper infrastructure within LDCs. The economic and financial situation in Cambodia is evolving positively, and the performance criteria subscribed to by the Government with international organizations have been achieved. While these are good signs for improving the economic situation in Cambodia, poverty is still a major problem, particularly in rural areas, where development is moving at a slower pace. Rural development has been hampered in some parts of the country by the continuing problem of landmines. With international and bilateral assistance, the Cambodian Mine Action Centre is working towards making Cambodia a landmine-free country. It will take time, effort and support from the international community to accomplish that task. This year the Kingdom of Cambodia has officially acceded to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in South- East Asia. It has become an observer member in the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and is now a member of the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF). Cambodia is actively engaged in improving and expanding ties with all countries throughout the world. Since 1993, with its open door policy and the policy of positive engagement, Cambodia has rejoined the community of nations and is working closely with others to promote world peace and international security. So far the Kingdom of Cambodia has established diplomatic relations with 87 countries from all continents. Cambodia has also taken steps towards full integration into ASEAN. As an observer member of ASEAN, Cambodia may participate in important ASEAN meetings. In December this year Cambodia will for the first time participate in the ASEAN Summit in Bangkok, Thailand. Cambodia welcomed Vietnam’s full membership of ASEAN, Lao aspirations to become a full member by 1997 and Myanmar’s accession to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in South-East Asia, to become 12 an observer, and looks to the day when all the countries of South-East Asia form an ASEAN-10. At the same time, Cambodia welcomes the recent positive trends in the continuing development and growth of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). While sustainable economic development and growth are crucial for us all, it is important that development works to further enhance peace and stability for the whole world. The long-term solution being widespread economic development, Cambodia wishes to assure the Assembly of its support for the newly created World Trade Organization. I turn to the question of world peace and international security. Cambodia is very concerned about the situation in Afghanistan. We support a peaceful settlement of the conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Somalia. Continuing war in these countries will have serious repercussions on international security. Cambodia warmly welcomed the major agreement concluded between Israel and the Palestinians on Sunday, 24 September 1995. We support and encourage the continuing efforts of the Israeli and Palestinian people to build peace, freedom and harmony between them. Cambodia is very happy to see that Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, leader of the National League for Democracy of Myanmar, was freed last July by the State Law and Order Restoration Council. We welcome this latest move by Myanmar. We note with great concern the role of the United Nations peace-keepers. Ten years ago they numbered only 4,000, but now, as new conflicts pop up like mushrooms, their number has risen to over 70,000. A new situation has also emerged wherein the credibility of the peace-keepers is constantly being challenged. We must find a mechanism to strengthen the role of the peace-keepers and give them better support and protection against the evil forces that are out to weaken and destroy them. It is in this context that we applaud the new role assigned to the peace-keepers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We pray for the success of the peace talks, led by the distinguished American diplomat Richard Holbrooke, between Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Bosnian Serbs. The subject of the United Nations Conference on Women, held in Beijing this year, was very timely. Since the formation of the Provisional Government in June 1993, Cambodia has been conscious of the rights of women. Cambodia now has in the Government a National Secretariat for Women’s Affairs, which promotes greater recognition of the roles of women in society. The Royal Government sent a delegation of women, headed by Her Royal Highness Princess Marie Norodom Ranariddh, to Beijing. With regard to nuclear testing, as a Party to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), Cambodia strongly supports a ban on all nuclear testing around the world. As we have just concluded the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, nuclear tests anywhere, whether atmospheric or underground, are of major concern for all of us in terms of the health, safety and well-being of humankind. The Kingdom of Cambodia notes with satisfaction that progress is being made on the comprehensive test-ban treaty, and we applaud the agreement that has been reached on the mandate with regard to the production of fissile materials for weapons. We are very happy to see the encouraging sign from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in augmenting application of the NPT’s safeguards provisions. As one of the founding members of the Non-Aligned Movement, Cambodia looks forward with great enthusiasm to participating in the ninth Summit Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, to be held this year in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia. We applaud the professional skill and chairmanship of His Excellency President Soeharto of the Republic of Indonesia during the last three years, as leader of the Non-Aligned Movement. Cambodia is very happy to welcome the next Chairman of our Movement, His Excellency President Ernesto Samper, President of the Republic of Colombia. My delegation wishes to assure him that he will receive the fullest cooperation from Cambodia. We are convinced that he will, in a very spirited way, keep our Movement in the international agenda spotlight. As we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of this important Organization, an Organization that we should all be proud of, Cambodia calls for the strengthening and enhancement of the role of the United Nations, and urges that we move towards global peace-building and harmony. Remember that our Organization was built on the very idea of preventing and ending all conflicts and sufferings, and remember also that this same idea was made possible 13 in the case of Cambodia. Cambodia, I am very proud to say, is one of the success stories of our Organization. On behalf of my Government I congratulate Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session, a crucial time in the history of the Organization. I should like at the outset to express our full readiness to make a major contribution to the success of the deliberations under his leadership. I should also like to express our appreciation and gratitude to Minister Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire for his excellent performance as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. The peoples of the world believed that the end of the cold war would bring peace and prosperity — and they are still waiting. Indeed the changes that have taken place in international relations have not been accompanied by changes of a similar magnitude in the relations between the industrialized North and the impoverished South. On the contrary, the situation of developing countries, far from having improved, is deteriorating further. The international trade system does not meet the expectations that there would be access to markets and transparency in the rules of the game. Poverty has not been reduced, social development is at a standstill, the scientific and technological development of the South continues to lag and the external debt problem is still a heavy burden on our economies. It is our duty now to realize the dream of those who wrote the San Francisco Charter — something that has been postponed for 50 years by a cold war and dozens of regional conflicts and overshadowed by the grief of the victims of armed conflicts. The period of transition through which the international system is passing should not lead us to accept so-called unilateral solutions to problems that are global in nature nor to permit the emergence of a new era of intervention in matters that lie within the domestic jurisdiction of States. There is an imperative need to concert policies and coordinate strategies to face international problems and to foster constructive links between North and South. The United Nations, which was a stage for the cold war, must now cooperate in eradicating poverty, in making sustainable human development viable, in guaranteeing equality of rights between men and women and in giving full effect to human rights — in other words, it must work on behalf of human beings — all human beings — without distinction of any kind whatsoever. The United Nations has the responsibility to strive to make the hopes and expectations that arose at the end of the cold war a reality and not the source of new frustrations. The current situation requires a modern United Nations attuned to the new times, a pluralistic and democratic Organization that will be an instrument for the promotion of a world order that can make the right to development a reality and achieve peace. The building of a new international system to replace the hegemonic, weapons-based and unilateral practices of the past is a goal towards which we must work from within this Organization. The international system we aspire to create is one compatible with interdependence and autonomy, with the strengthening of the international organization and with full respect for the sovereign equality of States, one compatible with economic development and devoted to the significant improvement of the living conditions of the poorest segments of the population. It is indispensable to forge a new economic model that can satisfy the needs of our people, one characterized by social justice and equity, efficiency and competitiveness. At the same time, we are convinced that genuine and representative democracy, free from foreign interference, must be the key element in preserving peace and observing the basic principles of respect for the fundamental rights of the human person and of economic and social development. For the preservation of peace, security and international stability it is indispensable that the nuclear- weapon States act responsibly and immediately discontinue nuclear testing. In this regard, we deplore the recent nuclear tests that have been carried out, notwithstanding the opposition of the international community to that practice. Next month the Eleventh Summit Meeting of the members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries will take place in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia. My country looks forward to the attendance of leaders of developing 32 nations and is prepared to shoulder the creative challenge of presiding over the Movement for the next three years. In recent decades, under the leadership of His Excellency President Soeharto of Indonesia, the Non- Aligned Movement adopted a new course, one in tune with current reality, abandoning the confrontational context in favour of cooperation as the central focus of its action. We shall continue to pursue that task with enthusiasm. With the same determination with which it succeeded in its struggle against colonialism, the non-aligned countries must now face the challenge of eradicating poverty and closing the vast gap between rich and poor and between developed and developing countries. In the twenty-first century non-alignment will mean a commitment to peace and to the well-being and progress of our peoples, as well as action against poverty and marginalization. It will also entail a commitment to cooperation in dealing with global problems and a struggle for participation and against unilateralism and imposition. In facing the next century, non-alignment must participate actively in the reform of international institutions, including the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions. Non-alignment must also promote the needed changes in the structures of cooperation and the dynamic modalities by which developed countries and international institutions provide resources for the implementation of projects and programmes of South-South cooperation. One of the global problems that calls for an effective multilateral strategy headed by the United Nations is that of illegal drugs. This is not an issue that can be dealt with by a single country or small group of nations. This is a transnational crime of vast proportions, overwhelming dimensions and the greatest perils. It is a crime without nationality. We Colombians have suffered more than anyone from the devastating effects of this problem. We have suffered death and corruption as a consequence of the huge profits to be derived from this illegal activity. We find it surprising, therefore, to note that the international community is not fully aware of the real nature and dimensions of the problem of illicit drugs. We are dealing with an illegal economic activity with dimensions that have been compared with those of the oil industry. It is seven or eight times greater than the gross national product of a nation like Colombia; it operates in dozens of countries and entails a number of linked activities, including money laundering and the deviation of chemical precursors. Such linked activities generally take place in developed countries and are as important as the growing of coca leaves or their transformation into cocaine. Many studies indicate an increase in the consumption of illegal drugs in industrialized countries as well as an increase in new markets throughout the world. World statistics demonstrate that deaths from drug abuse have trebled since 1988 and that an increase of 1000 per cent has been observed in medical emergencies due to cocaine overdose between 1978 and 1993. My country has battled, with more success than any other, against the producers of and traffickers in illegal drugs. Colombia eradicated marihuana crops in the 1970s, destroyed the Medellín Cartel in the 1980s and dismantled the Cali Cartel in the 1990s. Colombia is responsible for more than 50 per cent of the poppy crops eradicated worldwide and for the confiscation of more than a quarter of the total amount of cocaine and cocaine base seized globally. The eradication of illegal crops in Colombia must be accompanied by similar efforts to bring about the eradication of marihuana crops in other countries, including in some industrialized countries in the North. During the first year of President Ernesto Samper’s Administration, the anti-drug cartel policy has produced results that no prior administration in Colombia, or in any other nation, has been able to achieve. Thanks to Colombia’s success, the world now has a historic opportunity to defeat drug trafficking once and for all. Yet this opportunity could be missed if adequate measures are not immediately adopted to combat money laundering, the deviation of precursor chemicals and permissive consumption. My country has proposed creating a special unit of the Economic and Social Council to oversee measures of international cooperation, the adoption of an inter- American convention against money laundering and the convening in 1997 of an international conference to evaluate the results of the Vienna Convention and to make the necessary adjustments to it. 33 There is still time for the international community to face up to its responsibility to bring about the final defeat of this international scourge. At the outset, allow me to express my best wishes to you, Sir, and to congratulate you on your election. I assure you of Paraguay’s most complete cooperation. I also wish to express my appreciation and gratitude to Ambassador Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire for the way in which he guided the work of the General Assembly at the last session. At the same time I am pleased to convey to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the congratulations that I bring on behalf of the Government and people of Paraguay for the commendable efforts that have been made. I wish to express once again, on behalf of Paraguay and the President of the Republic, Juan Carlos Wasmosy, our full support for the United Nations, of which Paraguay was one of the founders. We are living in an exceptional year, an important one, marking the first 50 years of the United Nations. I myself was one of the fortunate witnesses of the birth of the Organization after the Second World War. Life then led me to work for 25 years as a staff member within the structure that was created. I believe that the United Nations has essentially fulfilled the aspirations placed in it for peace, security, efforts to establish a more equitable international legal order, and the commitment to development for all the peoples of the world. Undoubtedly, we must admit that in spite of the efforts made, we cannot say that we have been as 10 successful as we would have wished in the sphere of political achievements. On the contrary, in the economic and social fields, in which the Secretary-General and the different agencies of the United Nations system can take their own decisions, there is an immense wealth of great achievements, some of which are truly extraordinary. By way of example we would like to mention the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, successes as regards decolonization, invariable and universal support for individual and collective human rights, the openness and liberalization of international trade, the immense mass of statistical data collected and published in the fields of demography, economics, health, education, and so on. Without attempting to be exhaustive I should like to emphasize our admiration for the world summits — for the defence and protection of the environment in Rio de Janeiro; the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo; the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen; the World Summit for Children; the recently concluded Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing; and the equally hoped-for and awaited United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II). The contribution that these summits have made to mankind is truly historic. I should also like to highlight my Government’s appreciation for the report of the independent Working Group on the future of the United Nations, many of whose observations and recommendations we share. Without attempting to elaborate on the immense agenda of this session we would like to emphasize the need that Paraguay feels for a greater adaptation of the United Nations to the new and changing realities at the same time we support, where possible, the greater strengthening of the entire system, not only to preserve peace through law but also to strengthen security with a view to the harmonized and integral development of all peoples the world over. In this context Paraguay continues to support the reform of the organs of the United Nations, strengthening the General Assembly, democratizing the Security Council with the presence of more non-permanent members and restricting the power of veto. Among the new permanent members it would be vital to ensure that there is equitable representation for Latin America and other continents among whose representatives we mention by way of example Japan, Germany and Brazil. All this would be impossible if States in accordance with agreed contributions were not to confront positively and conscientiously the serious problem of financing the system. In keeping with its means Paraguay is up to date in the payment of its assessment and we would like to emphasize the need to rationalize resources and improve the administrative efficiency of the United Nations. We have also said in the past that the allocation of funds for programmes and projects in the world by the United Nations is unbalanced in that only 8.66 per cent of the programmes are allocated to countries of Latin America whereas other regions have 50.42 per cent and 40.67 per cent respectively. Paraguay is following closely the enormous efforts being made by the United Nations concerning peace and development. As regards the maintenance of peace, Paraguay wishes to refer to a few specific points. Regarding agenda item 27, I am pleased at the continued economic openness in the sister republic of Cuba. It is a pleasure to recall that the great hero, poet, political leader, writer and teacher, José Martí was Consul General of Paraguay in New York and that his contribution to my homeland was at the time, and continues to be fruitful. In this context Paraguay reiterates its full support for the Rio Group as regards its declaration in favour of lifting the embargo on Cuba and we repeat our support for the changes required in accordance with the will of the people and with respect for the self-determination of peoples and the principle of non-intervention. Regarding the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Paraguay supports the different courses of action promoted by the General Assembly and monitored by the Security Council through the efforts of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other related agencies.My country has not lost hope that the strength of reason and the inspiration of human compassion will, in the near future, alleviate the enormous suffering and sacrifices of those peoples that are separated now by hatred and violence. Paraguay shares the concern of the international community regarding the conflicts in Rwanda and Burundi and other parts of the African continent. 11 The very diverse actions of the United Nations in other parts of the world deserve our respect and our support. Without being exhaustive in our listing we would like to refer to the problems that have existed in El Salvador, Haiti, Iraq, Kuwait, Angola, Mozambique, Somalia, Western Sahara, Liberia, and in Lebanon, Cyprus, Cambodia, Georgia, Tajikistan, and so on. The United Nations is contributing or has contributed actively with observer missions or assistance missions and with peace- keeping forces in a world that is experiencing so much upheaval. We continue to be hopeful as regards the peace process between Israel and its Arab neighbours in the Middle East. Paraguay is gratified by the recent agreements between Israel and Palestine and we hope that new progress will soon be made in those lands which were the cradle of three universal religions and their magnificent cultures. Of course Paraguay supports the work of the United Nations with a view to achieving disarmament, whether it be in regard to conventional, biological, chemical or nuclear weapons. In the same context, Paraguay expresses its concern also at the nuclear tests being conducted in different parts of the world. The struggle against the terrible scourge of terrorism is one shared by Paraguay in an increasingly united framework of international cooperation to eliminate the problem at its very roots. Paraguay would like to mention its hope that as a result of the talks between the two parties, a just and equitable understanding will be reached to resolve the situation of the Republic of China, in keeping with the principle of universality enshrined in the Charter. Regarding agenda item 27, I am pleased at the continued economic openness in the sister republic of Cuba. It is a pleasure to recall that the great hero, poet, political leader, writer and teacher, José Martí was Consul General of Paraguay in New York and that his contribution to my homeland was at the time, and continues to be fruitful. In this context Paraguay reiterates its full support for the Rio Group as regards its declaration in favour of lifting the embargo on Cuba and we repeat our support for the changes required in accordance with the will of the people and with respect for the self-determination of peoples and the principle of non-intervention. Regarding the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Paraguay supports the different courses of action promoted by the General Assembly and monitored by the Security Council through the efforts of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other related agencies.My country has not lost hope that the strength of reason and the inspiration of human compassion will, in the near future, alleviate the enormous suffering and sacrifices of those peoples that are separated now by hatred and violence. Paraguay shares the concern of the international community regarding the conflicts in Rwanda and Burundi and other parts of the African continent. The very diverse actions of the United Nations in other parts of the world deserve our respect and our support. Without being exhaustive in our listing we would like to refer to the problems that have existed in El Salvador, Haiti, Iraq, Kuwait, Angola, Mozambique, Somalia, Western Sahara, Liberia, and in Lebanon, Cyprus, Cambodia, Georgia, Tajikistan, and so on. The United Nations is contributing or has contributed actively with observer missions or assistance missions and with peace-keeping forces in a world that is experiencing so much upheaval. We continue to be hopeful as regards the peace process between Israel and its Arab neighbours in the Middle East. Paraguay is gratified by the recent agreements between Israel and Palestine and we hope that new progress will soon be made in those lands which were the cradle of three universal religions and their magnificent cultures. Of course Paraguay supports the work of the United Nations with a view to achieving disarmament, whether it be in regard to conventional, biological, chemical or nuclear weapons. In the same context, Paraguay expresses its concern also at the nuclear tests being conducted in different parts of the world. The struggle against the terrible scourge of terrorism is one shared by Paraguay in an increasingly united framework of international cooperation to eliminate the problem at its very roots. Paraguay would like to mention its hope that as a result of the talks between the two parties, a just and equitable understanding will be reached to resolve the 12 situation of the Republic of China, in keeping with the principle of universality enshrined in the Charter. United Nations cooperation in development implies an enormous restructuring and revitalization effort in the economic, social and other related spheres. In this context we view as very fruitful the cooperation between the United Nations and the Latin American Economic System and cooperation between the United Nations and other regional groups. Particular emphasis should be placed on horizontal cooperation. We consider the question of convening an international conference for development to be of vital importance as one of the measures needed to ensure long-term economic growth in all countries, particularly the developing countries. Recent financial disturbances on our continent, where debt, loans and speculative capital combined to create a widespread and only recently resolved crisis, oblige us to reassert the fundamental demand for sustainable development and for effective and broad international economic cooperation, as was highlighted in the conclusions of the Rio Group at its recent meeting at Quito. Paraguay is pleased to affirm before the Assembly that its democratic process is continuing to grow stronger day by day. In accordance with the National Constitution, the Government has guaranteed and will continue to guarantee all freedoms and compliance with the covenants on civil and political rights we have signed. We cannot fail to note that the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, in its 1995 conclusions with regard to our country, has recognized Paraguay’s achievements in this field. At the same time, we cannot deny the enormous needs to which we must respond. Democratic transition in our country has not received the hoped-for material support. Apart from the contribution of the European Community and Japan, we have had to deal with our social and economic problems out of our resources. That alone explains why we have been unable to resolve all social conflict. In shouldering the task of coming up with answers, we repeat that we shall be doing so without digressing from the moral principles of fairness and the principles of the United Nations, but we do ask for greater support for our development from the international community. For that reason the people of Paraguay were shocked — and, we must say, indignant — to learn of the attempts by certain European and United States banks to bring before the Swiss courts claims of debts that were never sanctioned by Paraguay authorities and that arose out of fraudulent operations that were carried out in Italy and that are now being investigated and judged in those countries. Paraguay has honoured and will continue to honour each and every one of its international commitments, but we can never agree to the payment of debts unrelated to our legislation and contrary to every principle of law. The recent Conference of the Rio Group at Quito came out vigorously in favour of productive investment and discouraged speculation, which does not create employment and which is unfortunately characteristic of today’s climate. In this connection, our Government is continuing with its plans concerning the Paraguay-Paraná waterway. This waterway is not a new project or design to be created from scratch but, on the contrary, something that already exists as a work of nature and that must be improved, without curtailing it, by means of river channels that will be suitable for open navigation at all times for the transit of goods and persons. The ecological Summit at Rio de Janeiro strengthened Paraguay’s awareness of the need to protect the environment, and since this waterway already exists in its natural state, the environment — and I would emphasize this — will in no way be damaged. As of 1 January 1995 the Southern Cone Common Market, MERCOSUR, which is a customs union, has complemented and integrated the economies of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay into a market covering over 200 million persons and 12 million square kilometres, the world’s fourth largest regional entity. The Treaty of Asunción, which brought MERCOSUR into being five years ago, is based on two key principles, namely, international democracy and international solidarity. It is a flexible system of integration that seeks to include the economies of the sister Republics of Bolivia and Chile and that may eventually be joined with the Andean Pact. Paraguay is very enthusiastic about the fruitful negotiations under way with the European Union aimed at establishing a broad zone of free trade that would cover Europe and MERCOSUR. Under the outstanding presidency of Spain a broad framework agreement is now being studied in the European Union, and we hope it can be signed in Madrid at the end of this year. 13 Paraguay is firmly convinced of the need to move forward with the process of creating in MERCOSUR such supranational entities as an administration commission and a law tribunal. Paraguay’s pro-tem presidency of MERCOSUR saw the entry into force of a customs union that has undergone steady development, as well as the initiation of the understanding with the European Union. We have just handed the presidency over to Oriental Republic of Uruguay. Within MERCOSUR, Paraguay is carrying out a free- trade policy, the most open such policy in South America, corresponding as it does to article 8 of the Charter of the International Monetary Fund, which provides for the totally unrestricted movement of capital. Paraguay is aware that it must reduce the size of its armed forces so that the sums invested in it can be transferred to the social sector, but without losing sight of its need for security and without impairing the efficiency of those forces. Fortunately, there is understanding of the various mandates and the cooperation needed to make this change. In Paraguay at the present time we are examining the possibility of participation by our armed forces in United Nations peace-keeping operations, and we have begun to send officers to participate in training courses. We appreciate the financing of the programmes and projects in our country by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the World Bank and the Inter- American Bank for Development. We are grateful to the International Monetary Fund for its very effective guidance. Drug trafficking is not a problem in Paraguay, which is neither a centre of production nor a consumer market. The only problem it causes is created by the transit towards the industrialized countries, which is facilitated by our long border. Through its own efforts, and without external assistance, Paraguay is combating this scourge and has achieved significant successes. Public and private corruption is the scourge of the whole world today, and it is being tackled by our Government. In this connection, Paraguay firmly supports the draft inter-American convention against corruption submitted by the Government of Venezuela to its partners in the Rio Group. Paraguay is proud of its contribution to and membership in the Rio Group. This is a flexible organ created as a way to resolve a precise conflict, and it has provided such good results that it has continued to exist as a framework for broad, political dialogue that is becoming increasingly relevant and important. Its establishment by founding members of the Organization of American States (OAS) has given it a particularly coherent and timely political standing. We are encouraged at the practical turn taken by the Summit Meeting of American Presidents at Miami, especially at the Ministerial Meeting at Denver, Colorado. Before concluding my statement I wish to say that the Government of Paraguay wants to highlight the positive understanding achieved with the Republic of Argentina for solving the ecological problem of the Pilcomayo river. The sister Republic of Bolivia has now joined us in a tripartite agreement to redress this problem in an area ripe for regional development, thanks to the cooperation of the European Union. Last year we mentioned the need to create within the United Nations system a fund for progress in science and technology, particularly for the developing countries. In this regard we would like to appeal especially to our partners from the South. Without science and technology for our economic, social and political elites, development is impossible. The gap between the industrialized countries and our own countries in this respect is so large that it is a matter of fairness and necessity to reduce it. Above all, it is question of bringing about a free transfer of agricultural and food technology that can make it possible for us to live in social peace. As the United Nations completes its 50 years of existence, it has passed many milestones in human history. Knotty problems that seemed insoluble yesterday have now been left behind. A nuclear crisis, which threatened almost two generations of the human race, now seems unthinkable. The world can no longer be explained from the standpoint of two ideologies whose triumph or defeat could be decided only by a major war, which was fortunately avoided. The contest between authoritarianism and freedom is over. Although there are large areas of the world where fundamental rights are not enjoyed, the benefits of freedom enshrined in the declarations and covenants of the United Nations are not at issue. We cannot forget that since 1819 there have been 353 wars, but none of them has been between well- established democracies. 14 There is a widespread and growing awareness that many major issues can be resolved only by pooling our efforts. The issues of the environment, women, education and children, as well as a large majority of the other issues on this grand Assembly’s agenda, are impossible to resolve through the efforts of one nation-State. This fact is confirmed every day. Today we forget that not long ago, when our Organization already existed, there was no debate over the internal affairs of countries and that no international intervention was allowable. If the Charter were rewritten today it would be startling to see the changes Article 2, paragraph 7. All this happened in the era of the United Nations. We still lack the perspective to assess it, but we are sure that the result is positive. We have not gone backwards; we have not even stopped. We are again hearing voices that emphasize the defects of the Organization. The criticism would seem true if we lost sight of the major changes for the good of mankind that have come about with the existence and the help of our institution. Through me, my country reiterates its support for vital and necessary reforms. This is our responsibility, and it is the best tribute we can pay to those who conceived, shaped and developed the Organization. But these changes will be valid only if we remember the principle of the sense of history, as Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali pointed out. In recent years we Paraguayans, in setting out anew on the path of democracy, believed that we were impelled not only by a desire to improve our living conditions, obtain the benefits of progress and ensure well-being for all. We understood that we were part of a shared adventure with universal roots, that we were a nation that, in order to understand itself, needed to understand others. For this reason, we stand before you with a conviction that I hope will last for ever: that the great majority of people believe that with the United Nations it will be possible some day be possible, perhaps very soon, to find new forms of cosmopolitanism. That sense of history obliges us to think once again in terms of the world — this will, of course, be our new activity — so that morality may triumph in politics and that the separation of the two will have been but a moment in the history of our race. To paraphrase Hegel, we can say, “What are we? What shall we become?” It is a great pleasure to see Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral presiding over the important proceedings of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that under his guidance this session will be a great success. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations gives us a reason and an opportunity to reflect on the state of the United Nations and on the question of its ability to adjust to a changing world. This is especially necessary in our times. We have witnessed in the short span of the last few years a variety of changes which have affirmed the global nature of all the basic issues facing mankind. An array of United Nations conferences and summits has strengthened our common awareness of the global nature of environmental and development issues, including those related to social development. The world- wide tendency towards democracy and the freedom of the individual has strengthened the world-wide cause of human rights. The notion of our common security is being redefined and globalized. It now contains not only military and political, but also economic, social and environmental components. This session of the General Assembly began less than two weeks after the conclusion of the Fourth World Conference on Women. That conference amply demonstrated the depth and the global nature of the changes that are at hand. The equality of women and the realization of the human rights of women are now among the priority issues on the international agenda. The United Nations has highlighted the sensitivity of the organized international community to the crucial issues facing the world and the Organization’s ability to provide a framework for articulating the main objectives and commitments. It has also demonstrated the ability to formulate principal policy objectives. On the other hand, however, the United Nations has yet to prove its ability to organize effective international cooperation for the realization of voluntary, agreed objectives and commitments. This is a more difficult task, and much is left to be desired in our fulfilment of it. Furthermore, it is in this context that the question of reform of the United Nations system arises. Reforms are needed to respond to profound changes in international relations and should be much more far-reaching and carefully focused than is currently the case. So, for example, reforms in the economic and social domains should duly take into account the transformation of the world economy and the ever growing importance of market forces, private-initiative entrepreneurship and free trade. In these circumstances there is no place for the creation of unnecessary supra-State structures. What is needed, however, is carefully targeted operational cooperation for development and high-level dialogue capable of assisting Member States to formulate the most effective economic and social policies. The functional commissions of the Economic and Social Council should become places where decision makers both from Governments and from non-governmental sectors meet and devise specific strategies. New schemes of cooperation among governmental and non-governmental sectors are needed, not least to develop appropriate models for financing the relevant priorities in the fields of environment and social development. Careful thinking and responsible action are necessary for the strengthening of international peace and security. Each of the diverse priorities in this domain will require serious efforts if satisfactory solutions are to be possible. However, there are also fears that the will to reach them has not yet been mobilized. Another priority area of United Nations action for the strengthening of international peace and security concerns the necessary reform of the principal United Nations body in this field, the Security Council. An awareness of the need to strengthen the representative character and the effectiveness of the Security Council through expansion of its membership is now generally shared. Slovenia is among those Members of the United Nations which support the idea of appropriate expansion of the number of both permanent and non-permanent seats on the Security Council. This is the majority view now. Furthermore, we believe that in order to reflect adequately the political and economic realities of our time it is important that Germany and Japan should become permanent members of the Security Council. In the framework of the proposed reform, we should ask ourselves what the future role of the United Nations ought to be. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, after the disappearance of the communist bloc, there is a new situation in the world. The process is basically positive, but in the first years after the big change there are still many questions to be answered. The world must find new stability, a new balance. The danger of regional conflicts and wars has increased. The international community did not find adequate responses to specific situations, such as those in Somalia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. But we cannot simply say that international institutions, including the United Nations, were inefficient in dealing with these situations. The humanitarian endeavour and contribution were significant. Many remarkable efforts were put into solutions — efforts by individuals and by institutions. But it remains clear that the world must find answers to the new challenges. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a very good example. It is an important case in itself, but it is also a very important precedent to be considered in the future. The response of the world to the situation in the former Yugoslavia was slow. Preventive diplomacy failed in this case, as in many other crises, as a result of the normal behaviour of the majority of politicians, who usually give priority to domestic situations and problems. But in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina there is another very important dimension of the problem: a solution or the absence of a solution will influence the future. How will the post-cold-war world develop? Will there be efficient international coordination, mainly within the United Nations, to take care of such problems and crises? Or shall we go back to the old division of the world and of Europe: the division, in interest spheres, among classic Powers — the traditional interest spheres of the most important countries? It is obvious that in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina there was some mix of the two approaches. There was an international effort in the framework of the United Nations, and there were differences among some power States with different opinions about the situation. Bosnia and Herzegovina is where the First World War started, when the old European Powers tried to expand their interest zones. The former Yugoslavia was at the 2 crossroads of many interests and is where so many horrors and killings took place during the Second World War. And there are some signs that the international community has not yet completely overcome such historical divisions and influences. On the other hand, we cannot say that this historical approach prevailed in tackling the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There was also strong international action in the name of the universal order and universal values, in the name of the protection of human rights, in the name of the protection of the rights of all nations. It is very encouraging that we recently witnessed really serious activity, a very serious peace plan. Diplomatic activity combined with the necessary military action has for the first time provided a realistic chance to stop the war and the killing in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to establish a durable peace and the prospect of stability in the region. If these activities succeed, they will be an extremely important model for the future, for further development of international coordination in the framework of the United Nations. If the international community is able to solve such an extremely difficult case as that of Bosnia and Herzegovina we shall all be encouraged to direct new energy and efforts towards establishing global instruments and activities to prevent and to solve future crises. The international community will strengthen its institutions in support of universal values and rights. If it fails in this case the situation will be just the opposite. The road will be open to anarchy, chaos and regional wars, to the rule of the stronger, to the old practices of spheres of interest, and the world will not find a way out of the post-cold-war situation. Instability will increase, and the chances of regional and global wars will be greater. So we are at a very important moment in history and in the functioning of the United Nations. If the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is celebrated with success in finally solving the crisis in the former Yugoslavia, this will be the best reward for everybody who, over the past 50 years, has sacrificed his time, his energy or even his life for the establishment of a world of freedom, stability and international cooperation. Of course, there are many problems to be solved in the future. The United Nations will have to develop efficient instruments of preventive diplomacy and means of handling crises if they occur anyway and of defining the criteria as to when and how to intervene. As is very evident from the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is not always easy to achieve a unanimous definition of “the bad guys” in the world order or to agree upon action against them. But there are human rights criteria, and there are universal values that were developed in the world over the centuries, and especially during recent decades. These have to be respected and implemented. Luckily, Slovenia was out of the Yugoslav crisis at a very early stage and established its independence four years ago. Now we have a very prosperous State with good democratic performance and very good economic development. Slovenia is considered one of the best countries, if not the best country, in transition to the market and democratic system. We are also prepared to make our contribution to building the international institutions and the coordination that will lead to greater stability in the world. We see our future as being in international institutions like the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European Union. We look upon such bodies not only as economic or defence institutions but also as institutions that should ensure greater stability in the world, greater democracy and the development of universal principles of individual and collective human rights. But we can see that the way is not easy. Even in our own neighbourhood we face some remnants of the past. This is just one further reason for our insistence on respect by everybody, and not just by the smaller and the weaker countries, for principle in international relations, democracy and universal values. This is the only guarantee of international peace and stability. Clearly, if we start to correct the past and the present on the basis of some historical tendencies of domination, there will be no way of securing the future stability of the world. The solution lies only in overcoming such practices and attitudes and in establishing international cooperation, peace and stability on the basis of respect for each other and for universal human rights. I wish first of all, on behalf of the delegation of Nepal and on my own behalf, to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election as President of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. He has been asked to guide our deliberations at a time of historic importance. His demonstrated abilities, experience and wisdom are an assurance for us that we have made the right choice. I assure him of the full cooperation of my delegation as he performs his duties. I should like also to express my appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, for the excellent manner in which he steered the work of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. May I also greet the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to whom I wish to convey the gratitude of His Majesty’s Government of Nepal for his tenacious and tireless efforts for peace. Since his election to the office of Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros- Ghali has succeeded in large measure in giving shape to United Nations debates through his proposals in the Agendas for Peace and for Development. We also share his vision for better management of the Organization. As a functional democracy with widened commitment to human rights and justice, we await with great interest his Agenda for Democracy. These will be the areas of concern of the United Nations in the years to come. We are meeting here at a very important juncture. The United Nations is celebrating its fiftieth anniversary, in preparation for our march into the next century. This prompts us to do some new soul-searching about what kind of world we want to shape and what role we want the United Nations to play in it. These questions do not lend themselves to easy answers, but together, at this moment, we can begin the search. Fifty years ago the United Nations came into being with a mission: to maintain international peace and security, to forge friendly relations amongst nations and peoples, to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights and to promote economic and social progress in larger freedom. Despite the immediate onset of the cold war and the resultant debilitating Power rivalry, the United Nations has since remained actively engaged in fulfilling the mission. It has had a great impact on the democratization of international relations. Its efforts to promote economic and social development have borne fruit. No less important has been its role in the broadening and strengthening of international law. By helping to accelerate the decolonization process and ensuring the peoples’ right to self-determination, it has facilitated the emergence of many independent nations worldwide. Nor can we forget the Organization’s contribution to the fight against apartheid. Today, South Africa has emerged as a democratic, non-racial nation — yet another proud Member of the world body, whose goal of universality of membership is near attainment. My delegation extends its heartiest welcome and congratulations to our newest fellow Member, Palau. The world is undergoing a transformation of monumental proportions, generating fresh hopes and aspirations for peoples all over the world. The pace of democratic reforms continues to surge and so do concerns for the protection and promotion of human rights and individual freedoms. A more liberal world-trade regime is taking shape. Economic interdependence is being acknowledged as a fact of international life. The logic of confrontation is increasingly giving way to the logic of conciliation and cooperation throughout the world. We believe that now is the time for us to seize this new-found opportunity to make the Charter’s goal of attaining a world of peace, prosperity, equality and justice irrevocable and timeless. These positive developments notwithstanding, we are still far from universal peace. Conflicts of enormous cruelty continue to plague the world. The scourge of war still brings untold sorrow to large segments of mankind. We have witnessed, day in and day out, hundreds and thousands of innocent people falling victim to hostilities and the all-but-forgotten phenomena of “ethnic cleansing” and genocide. Thousands more are dying of starvation 17 and disease. Similarly, thousands are being forced to leave their homelands as refugees in different parts of the world. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Somalia and Rwanda present a terrifying picture of what has taken place. These appalling situations challenge the ability of the United Nations and its Member States not only to maintain peace and security, but also to secure a minimum of basic human decency and needs. That having been said, let me hasten to add that the disappointments we experience are not solely the results of the Organization’s failure, but are basically the reflection of a fast-changing global environment in which our expectations were unusually high. The United Nations was called upon to deal with situations for which it was not politically and logistically prepared. We take comfort in the fact that for every failed peace operation there have been numerous others of which we can be justly proud and in which, but for a United Nations presence, the fatalities would have been vastly greater. The United Nations has helped bring peace to Angola, Cambodia, El Salvador, Haiti, Mozambique and Namibia. Even in the territories of the former Yugoslavia, the real good the United Nations has done is being appreciated now. The 8 September peace plan advanced by the Contact Group of five Powers and accepted in principle by the concerned parties is a beacon of light at the end of the tunnel. My delegation supports the Geneva agreement on the principles of a settlement based on the territorial integrity of the States of the former Yugoslavia within internationally recognized borders. My delegation also notes with great satisfaction not only that the peace process in the Middle East is gaining momentum, but that it has become irreversible. The signing of the Israeli-Palestinian agreement in Washington on 28 September by Prime Minister Rabin and Chairman Arafat, in the presence of President Clinton, King Hussein of Jordan and President Mubarak of Egypt, is a turning point in the history of the Middle East. Nepal earnestly hopes that talks will soon resume between Israel and Syria and between Israel and Lebanon so that a just and lasting peace, as envisaged by the United Nations, can be guaranteed throughout the region. The return of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to Haiti has been a gain for the United Nations and democracy. The process of peace-building and strengthening of democracy is taking hold in that country. My country is proud to be a part of this process through our participation in the United Nations Mission in Haiti. In its primary function of maintaining international peace and security, the United Nations has peace-keeping operations as an important tool for conflict resolution. My country has a long history of participation in these peace efforts. From the United Nations Observation Group in Lebanon in 1958 through the United Nations Emergency Force, the United Nations Operation in Somalia and several others to the current United Nations Protection Force in the former Yugoslavia, the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon and the Mission in Haiti, Nepal has committed its troops, military observers and civilian police personnel to United Nations peace initiatives. Many of our peace-keepers have laid down their lives in the performance of their duties. I stand here today to reaffirm Nepal’s continued response to any call for a contribution to the peace efforts of the United Nations. Peace-keeping operations have of late become multifunctional. Their functions have extended beyond the traditional role of monitoring cease-fire and truce agreements. They have been drawn into multifarious relief and humanitarian duties in excessively difficult and dangerous situations. Because of a lack of clarity in mandates and the absence of contingency plans and reinforcements, which should have been clearly foreseen, not only have our Blue Helmets been forced to stand aside as the posts they were manning were overrun: they have also been held hostage, chained and humiliated in their dignity as men and soldiers. Such sorry spectacles should not be seen again. The mandates for the new generation of peace-keeping operations must be clearly defined. Above all, it is essential that the capacity of the United Nations to serve the interests of peace in a timely fashion be increased. In this connection, I should like to reiterate my delegation’s support for the initiative concerning the stand-by forces to be made available to the United Nations within pre-agreed response times for any new or expanded peace-keeping operation. In the final analysis, peace-keeping operations are only a temporary arrangement. Real solutions lie in getting at the root of the problem, which can best be overcome by promoting economic development, protecting human rights, securing social justice and affirming democratic principles. Without real progress in these areas, international peace and security will remain an unattainable goal. It is therefore imperative to restore the balance between the United Nations political and military activities and its economic and social programmes. 18 The 1990s have often been described as a period of unprecedented changes marked by the end of the cold war, the cessation of Power rivalries, economic globalization and interdependence, a greater flow of capital, goods and services, and the widespread dissemination of ideas through a revolution in communications. A huge peace dividend was expected to accrue to the global economy. But these hopes have been dashed because the condition of the neediest countries, including the least developed and land- locked, has actually declined in the past five years. A constructive dialogue and partnership between developed and developing countries based on a mutuality of interests, interdependence and shared responsibility has not materialized. Many developing countries have carried out painful structural reforms but the socio-economic outlook has not been encouraging for them. Ironically, even the new world trade regime, promising fresh trade and development opportunities for many countries, will have an adverse impact on the economies of the least developed if substantial corrective measures are not taken in time. A number of important conferences in recent years have underlined both the inadequacies and the promises of international cooperation. Agenda 21 of the Rio Conference on Environment and Development remains largely on paper for want of necessary resources. The central role of human beings in development was affirmed last year by the International Conference on Population and Development. The Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development recognized three interrelated concerns of the United Nations: poverty, unemployment and the disintegration of societies. The Fourth World Conference on Women, in Beijing last month, sought to address the basic Charter principle of absolute equality between men and women in the contemporary world order. Individual human beings and the improvement of their lots are at the centre of all development, as is emphasized so eloquently by the Secretary-General in his Agenda for Development. Peace, economic growth, the environment, justice and democracy are now recognized to be the five integral dimensions of development. Greater resources and political will are urgently needed to transform our promises and commitments into action. Strengthening rather than weakening the principal development arms of the United Nations, such as the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the United Nations Population Fund; a reformed Economic and Social Council; reforms within the United Nations structures; and increased cooperation between the United Nations bodies and Bretton Woods institutions are key to a new approach to meaningful international development cooperation in the next half century of the United Nations. The last decade of the century has also opened up exciting possibilities to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and to decelerate the arms race. As host to the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific, Nepal has been a strong consistent believer in institutional arrangements for the strengthening of the world disarmament campaign. We believe in international, regional and subregional dialogues for the enhancement of openness, transparency and confidence-building and for the promotion of disarmament and security. The major focus of disarmament measures in 1995 was the Review and Extension Conference of the Nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty held in New York in April-May. Not only did the Conference strengthen the nuclear non- proliferation regime by extending the Treaty for an indefinite period, it also adopted a widely hailed package of decisions, emphasizing the need for the establishment of a comprehensive disarmament regime to meet the security concerns of all countries through the fulfilment of commitments undertaken by the nuclear-weapon States. These commitments include the speedy conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty, legally binding security assurances to non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, the unimpeded non- discriminatory transfer of nuclear technology for peaceful purposes, a cut-off in the production of fissile materials for weapons purposes and the eventual elimination of all nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. We therefore express our deep disappointment at the resumption of nuclear testing. We sincerely hope that these series of tests will not impede the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty in 1996. Nepal also extends its support for initiatives for a complete ban on chemical, biological and other inhumane weapons such as anti-personnel mines. I wish here to point out that in the post-Second World War era, more than these categories of weapons, conventional weapons have caused the most misery to mankind. The consideration of conventional weapons should also be a priority of United Nations efforts. May I take this opportunity to reiterate our position as to the utilization of the resources released by disarmament measures for development, particularly in developing countries. 19 It is entirely proper that the approach of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations should have spurred a variety of serious studies on the future of the Organization. Among these, the consensus resolution prepared and negotiated by the President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session on the strengthening of the United Nations system is of great relevance at the present time. While high-level working groups have been patiently busy preparing recommendations to improve the financial situation of the United Nations and concerning the expansion of the Security Council, Nepal believes more in a coordinated and integrated approach to making our Organization more efficient, effective and adaptable to the changing times. There appears to be universal recognition that the Security Council, the principal organ of the United Nations primarily responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, should more fully reflect the realities of the contemporary world. The perpetuation of exclusive rights may not be justified, especially without the proper accommodation of other pressing considerations. There is undoubted consensus on the need for an increase in membership. If an increase has to be effected in both the permanent and non-permanent categories, the basic principles of regional and democratic representation should not be vitiated. In the selection of members of the Security Council, due regard should of course be specifically paid to the contribution of Member States to the maintenance of international peace and security. However, particular consideration should be given to ensuring that no region should be under-represented or unrepresented, and that a minimum of balance is maintained in the overall membership between the industrial North and the developing South. It is painful to see the United Nations afflicted with financial problems. In our view, this is not due to faulty assessment systems. The non-payment of accepted obligations is largely to blame. The present deficit of more than three and half billion dollars amounts in fact to more than three times the regular budget of the Organization. While we are prepared for a review of the current assessment systems based on the doctrine of capacity to pay, and while we believe that no one country should be asked to assume excessive burdens, we urge that Member States pay their dues on time. We note that the Secretary- General has been forced to resort to cross-funding of regular budget deficits from the peace-keeping budget. This is obviously not fair to troop-contributing nations, many of which are developing countries. The withholding of the reimbursements due to them shifts the burden from rich countries to poorer ones. In conclusion, I wish to touch briefly on the regional cooperation activities taking place in the South Asian region. The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) will celebrate its tenth anniversary in December this year. Through the medium of SAARC, Nepal is pursuing a policy of promoting regional cooperation in a pragmatic and result-oriented manner. We have identified and are engaged in various areas of cooperation, from the suppression of terrorism to fighting drug abuse and trafficking, from environmental preservation to poverty alleviation. The South Asian Preferential Trading Arrangement (SAPTA), which is entering into force this year, is one of our important regional cooperation measures. Nepal looks forward to working together with our regional partners with greater vigour and determination to bring about regional peace, stability, progress and cooperation. I congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. His election is a tribute both to him and to Portugal, and Australia will work with him to ensure that this historic fiftieth session is as memorable as it could possibly be. I join in warmly welcoming, as the 185th Member State of the United Nations, our fellow South Pacific Forum member Palau. If we are to effectively prepare for our future we must first be able to clearly see our past. If we are to see where we must go, we must know where we have been: we must be conscious of our failures, but we should be proud of our successes. The structure of today’s world community — of sovereign, self-determined, independent States working together on the basis of equality in a framework of international law — simply did not exist before the Charter of the United Nations came into being. There were imaginings of it in the minds of many for a very long time, and we saw emerge between the two world wars a pale approximation of it with the League of Nations. But it was at that special moment in San Francisco, 50 years ago, that today’s concept of a community of nations was first truly born. And that concept has passed the test of 50 years of life. Gifted though the authors of the Charter were, they would I think be awed to see how very much their vision of a globalized world has now been answered, and exceeded. Today’s world is one world, a world in which no individuals and no States can aspire to solve all their problems or fulfil all their dreams alone. The ideas of San Francisco have entered into the unconscious of people all over the world. Those who refuse to acknowledge the global character of our world, or who recoil from it and retreat into unilateralism or, worse, isolationism, have simply not understood the new dynamics that are at work. Ours is an age in which we are called to more, not less, cooperation — and to ever more, and more responsible, sharing of our common destiny. The ideas of San Francisco have assumed many concrete forms, which have deepened and expanded over the last five decades. States now habitually, virtually automatically, conduct their relations with each other on the basis of the United Nations Charter. We have added continually to the corpus of international law and agreements made pursuant to the Charter, in ways that have touched every aspect of modern life. We have built institutions that have sought to deliver to the peoples of the world their most basic needs — for peace and security, for economic well-being, and for dignity and liberty. It was natural that following a devastating world war and the hideous brutality which accompanied it, the Charter would have at its heart the maintenance of international peace and security. So far, anyway, we have passed the test of ensuring that the world would never again be subjected to global conflict. The United Nations has been, of course, deeply challenged in the maintenance of peace, from the very beginning and ever since. There are areas in which its attempts to maintain and restore peace have been flawed, and where the United Nations has faltered. But for all that has gone wrong in places like Bosnia and Somalia and Rwanda we should not forget the successes, like those in El Salvador, Cambodia and Mozambique. To go back a generation, no one should forget the role that was played by the Security Council and the Secretary-General in that desperate month of October 1962 when the hands of the clock were seconds before midnight and the world did face potential nuclear holocaust. And no one should forget the role that, for example, the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty has played in falsifying the almost universal prediction in the 1960s that within two decades there would be 20 or more States possessing nuclear weapons. In development, in seeking to fulfil its commitment to promote 'social progress and better standards of life' the United Nations has laboured hard, sometimes in very difficult circumstances. The gap between developed and developing countries remains unacceptably high; there have been and continue to be difficulties with the availability of resources for development assistance; and we have to acknowledge the awful reality, according to the World Bank, that 1.3 billion of our people still live in absolute poverty. But in food and agriculture, in employment and labour standards, in health, in education and in building the infrastructure so vital to communities in the developing world — roads, bridges, water systems — the United Nations and its agencies have worked relentlessly in the service of the human family. It is because of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) that today 80 per cent of the world’s children are immunized against six killer diseases. And this is just 10 one of hundreds of similar stories that the United Nations can and should be telling. Basic to the United Nations concept of the world community was that it should operate under and foster the development of law, justice and human rights. A fundamental commitment of the United Nations is to establish conditions under which justice may prevail, international law will be respected and peace can be built. In fulfilment of this charge, the United Nations has provided the setting for the negotiation of over 300 major treaties, including in such crucial fields as arms control, transport, navigation and communications. This very practical area of international cooperation has formed the framework of a globalized world. The Charter of the United Nations speaks not just of securing better standards of life, but of those better standards being enjoyed “in larger freedom”. And the articulation, development and implementation of human rights standards across the whole spectrum of rights — economic, social and cultural as well as political and civil — has been one of the most important and constructive roles of the United Nations. One of the worst of all denials of personal and political freedom was that imposed by apartheid. The triumph over that evil was above all a victory for those South Africans and their leaders whose freedom and dignity apartheid had so long denied. But it would ignore the testimony of history not to recognize the importance of the role played by the General Assembly and the Security Council in creating the conditions for that to occur. For the peoples of this world, no political right has been more important than the right to self-determination. The achievements of the United Nations in this field alone are testimony to the indispensable role it has played in human affairs, with hundreds of millions of people having exercised their right to self-determination in these past 50 years. It is the great movement of decolonization, as much as the cold war and its aftermath, that defines the modern world as we now know it, and which shapes the world’s agenda for the years that lie ahead. The United Nations of the future will need to be, above all, an organization which works and speaks for all its Members, no matter how large or small, and whose legitimacy is thus without question. It must be an organization better oriented to performance, to delivery to people of the things they need and have a right to expect. And it must be an organization which seeks to reintegrate, and better coordinate, the implementation of the three basic objectives of the United Nations so clearly articulated at San Francisco 50 years ago: the objectives of peace — meeting the need for security; of development — meeting economic needs; and of human rights and justice — meeting the need for individual and group dignity and liberty. In the peace agenda, disarmament and arms control continue to be of crucial importance, and a major challenge immediately ahead will be to maintain the momentum of multilateral disarmament and non-proliferation efforts. The decision by the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to extend the Treaty indefinitely was, and remains — despite what has happened since — the right decision. The work on a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty must be brought to conclusion, as promised, in the first half of 1996. We must also begin as soon as possible negotiations on a treaty to ban the production of fissile material for nuclear- weapons purposes. A further helpful step, although more difficult to achieve, would be a regime requiring all States to declare and account for their present stocks of fissile material. The basic objective in all of this is to move towards the goal that is agreed by all — and it should never be forgotten that it has been agreed by all — namely, that we will, ultimately, eliminate all nuclear weapons. It is in this context particularly that the decisions by France and China to continue nuclear testing are to be so strongly deplored. The environmental consequences are bad enough of setting off an explosion more than five times the size of that which destroyed Hiroshima — as France did yesterday on the fragile atoll of Fangataufa in Australia’s Pacific neighbourhood. But the nuclear policy consequences are even worse. This is not the time to be reinforcing nuclear stockpiles and asserting their ongoing deterrent role: the world wants and needs to be moving in the opposite direction. This is the time to be negotiating away those stockpiles, and building verification systems of the kind we did with the chemical weapons Convention — which still needs to be ratified to come into effect — and I urge those States that have not yet acceded to that Convention to do so urgently. This is not the time to be encouraging scepticism about the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty, as the Chinese and French tests are doing. It is, rather, the time for the nuclear Powers to be encouraging the universal observance of that Treaty in the way that they best can: by showing that they themselves are absolutely 11 serious about moving to eliminate nuclear weapons from the face of the globe. The best way for them to do that right now is for France and China to immediately end their testing programmes; for all the nuclear-weapon States to sign the nuclear-weapon-free-zone treaties that now exist in the South Pacific and elsewhere; and for those States to commit themselves wholeheartedly to negotiating a genuinely comprehensive, zero-threshold comprehensive test-ban treaty into place by the middle of next year. The past few turbulent years of United Nations experience on the ground in peace-keeping and peace enforcement has underlined the need for it to improve the effectiveness of its work in these important fields. Australia has welcomed the Secretary-General’s further work in this area in his very lucid January 1995 “Supplement to An Agenda for Peace'”. In our own contributions to the debate on these issues, we have argued for the clearest possible thinking to be given to the achievability of objectives right across the whole spectrum of responses to security problems — from peace-building to peace maintenance to peace restoration to peace enforcement. We have consistently argued, and I make the point again very briefly today, that if the United Nations is to be able to meet effectively the security challenges of the post-cold-war world it must begin to devote more resources to preventive strategies than to reactive strategies. It just makes more sense to concentrate on prevention than on after-the-event peace restoration, both for inter-State conflict and in the unhappily now far more common case of intra-State conflict. Violent conflicts are always far more difficult and costly to resolve than non-violent disputes, and failed States are extremely difficult to piece back together. All that said, it has been encouraging to see the progress made in recent days towards resolving the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, and in moving the Middle East peace process a substantial new step forward. The United Nations should always be prepared to lend its support and encouragement to preventive diplomacy and to peacemaking efforts taking place outside the formal framework of the United Nations system, and it should remain particularly alert to the opportunities envisaged in the Charter for advancing the peace agenda through regional organizations. In the latter context we in the Asia-Pacific have been very pleased with the rapid evolution of the new Regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) over the last two years as a new vehicle for dialogue and trust and confidence-building, in our own region. Particular attention has been given recently, as we all know, to the question of improving the rapid reaction capability of the United Nations, and I warmly commend the work that has been done to clarify our thinking on these issues by the Netherlands and Danish Governments, and particularly in the major Canadian report, “Towards a Rapid Reaction Capability for the United Nations”, just presented to the Assembly. The very useful emphasis of the Canadian study is on the idea of improving the United Nations system’s capability at the centre first, particularly in the area of operational planning, and thereby encouraging greater willingness by troop contributors to give practical and more urgent effect to stand-by arrangements. No organizational arrangements will ever substitute for clear-eyed decision-making by the Security Council on the responses and mandates that are appropriate to particular situations, but the implementation of changes of this kind should make us much better equipped as an international community to deal in future with situations like that in Rwanda, where last time our response was so tragically inadequate. The security agenda tends to dominate most popular perceptions of the United Nations role, but we in the international community must never allow our attention to be diverted from the demands of the development agenda, now as pressing as ever. When historians hundreds of years hence look back at this last half century, the cold war and its aftermath will not be the only great international current to be remembered; it will be the giant step of decolonization that looms at least as large. Decolonization led to the emergence of a world economy which for many years has been seen as divided principally into two categories, the developed and the developing countries. But today, the picture is more complicated. Mainly for reasons of change in technology and information systems, we do now live in a global economy. No part of it is entirely separate from the whole, and no one can act in that global economy in an effective way, entirely alone. Because we live in that kind of economy a key part of our action to deal with the problems of development must, accordingly, be multilateral, and the key problem facing us, both multilaterally and in our bilateral, donor roles, is that within the global economy the gap between rich and poor countries, despite all efforts to resist this, has grown. The fact that some 1.3 billion of the 5.7 billion people alive today live at an unacceptable level of poverty is morally insupportable, and dangerous. 12 The United Nations of the future must, as a matter of the most urgent priority, forge a new agenda for development and reshape its relevant institutions to implement that agenda effectively. This is as important as any task it faces in the service of the human family and in recreating itself as an institution fit for the twenty-first century. The agenda is available for all to see. It has been fully described in the six global conferences held by the United Nations in the past four years — the conferences on children, the environment, human rights, population, social development, and now women. There have also been important studies by the international financial institutions and by academic institutions. We know now what we need to do. We must resolve, politically, to do it. In pursuing these various themes it is important, however, for us not to lose sight of those geographical regions where particular focus is still required, and where the United Nations role is more vital than ever. Africa’s influence and importance continues to be felt throughout the world in every field of human activity and culture. Exciting political developments, including the ending of apartheid, have been accompanied by major new efforts to restructure and reform national economies. Those efforts demand the continued support of the international community, and in particular the United Nations system. Other regions where the United Nations needs to play a particular role to facilitate economic and social development are the Central Asian republics, the Middle East, the Caribbean, and in a number of areas in the Indian Ocean region. The Indian Ocean region is one where Australia, as an Indian Ocean country as well as an Asia-Pacific country, has been promoting, with others in the region, both governmental and non-governmental efforts to enhance regional cooperation, particularly on economic and trade issues. The success to date of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APECC) in developing cooperative strategies in the Asia-Pacific region to promote prosperity and stability, complementing the United Nations broader work for these goals at the international level, does offer one possible model for the countries of the Indian Ocean Rim to consider. The institutions of the United Nations relevant to economic and social development are urgently in need of reform. The General Assembly has created the high-level Working Group needed for political consensus on this. That must complete its work in this fiftieth anniversary year, and it must do so creatively, setting aside past vested interests in the system. We must implement the development agenda of the future in a way which ensures a productive and fair place in the global economy for all States. The complex and interlinked system of principles, legal regimes and machinery that the United Nations has established to promote human rights is one of its major achievements. It must be built upon and strengthened, recognizing always that the human rights whose universality and indivisibility we assert are about economic and social and cultural rights just as much as about the civil and political rights on which the developed countries tend to focus so much attention. Priority must be given to the major international human rights instruments and machinery and the committees which monitor their implementation. By this means we can provide a frank, non-confrontational and constructive dialogue amongst States parties. The advisory services and technical-assistance activities of the United Nations can also play a role in promoting the observance of human rights and the implementation of democratic principles around the world. Programmes to help countries develop their own national institutions and systems to promote and protect human rights will enhance their capacity to prevent violations and, accordingly, make a direct contribution to human security. It cannot be sufficiently emphasized enough that the peace and development and human-rights agendas I have mentioned are all interlinked. We need to avoid the compartmentalization that occurred throughout the cold- war years, in which peace-and-security issues, development issues and human-rights and justice issues were isolated in completely different conceptual and institutional boxes. Any viable modern concept of international peace, let alone peace within States, must recognize that peace and security and development are indissolubly bound up with each other. There can be no sustainable peace without development and no development without peace. And human rights, in the fullest sense, as I have described them, have to come into the equation too. There is unlikely to be sustainable peace in any society if material needs are satisfied but needs for dignity and liberty are not. No agendas of substance, no matter how clear in concept, how well-coordinated in principle they may be, will mean anything to people if they are not able to be implemented through effective organizational structures and instruments. There has been widespread recognition in recent years, as we all know, that the structure of the 13 United Nations that grew up during the past 50 years is simply not adequate to the tasks of the next. We now have an embarrassment of riches with respect to ideas and proposals for change to the United Nations. Just as it is urgent that we complete work on “An Agenda for Development” in this fiftieth year, it is equally urgent that we complete the work of the high-level Working Group on the reform of the United Nations system also within this fiftieth year. The structural problem that it is probably the most urgently necessary to resolve, if the credibility of the whole United Nations system is to be maintained, is that of the Security Council. The debate on this subject has been long and detailed and is familiar to all of us. Australia’s definite view is that it has been going on for long enough, and we are now at the time when action is required. Last year, we submitted some illustrative models on the basis of which consideration could be given to an expansion in the membership of the Council. Others have made very specific proposals. Again, in this field there is no lack of ideas. What we have to do now is move to the stage of forging political consensus on a new Security Council, which will be effective, represent the whole membership of the United Nations and sensibly reflect the realities of today and the future, not those of 1945. There are many structural changes and personnel reforms that could and should be made within the United Nations system to improve its efficiency. But ultimately the quality of that system depends on what we are prepared to pay for it. It is important to appreciate at the outset the order of magnitude of the sums we are talking about. The core functions of the United Nations, involving the Headquarters in New York, the Offices in Geneva, Vienna and Nairobi, and the five regional Commissions, cost just US$ 1.2 billion between them. To take just one comparison, last year the annual budget of just one Department in one United States city, the New York Police Department, exceeded that $1.2 billion by $600 million. The total number of personnel needed to run those United Nations core functions is around 10,700. Compare the local administration of my own national capital, Canberra — again, just one city in one of the 185 States Members of the United Nations — which has some 22,000 employees on the public payroll. The cost of United Nations peace operations last year, in Cyprus, Western Sahara, the former Yugoslavia and 13 other locations, was $3.2 billion. That is less than what it takes to run just three New York City Departments: the Police Department, the Fire Department and the Department of Correction. If we add to the core functions of the United Nations all the related programmes and organs, including the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), we are still talking about a total of around 33,000 people and a total budget, including both assessed and voluntary contributions, of $6.3 billion. That sounds a lot — rather more than just for the core functions — but it is not quite so much when one considers, for example, that the annual global turnover of just one international accounting firm, Price Waterhouse, is around $4.5 billion. If we go further than that and add to the core functions and related programmes all the other specialized programmes and agencies of the entire United Nations family — agencies such as the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the International Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the World Health Organization (WHO) and the International Atomic Energy Agency, and put into the equation as well the Bretton Woods institutions — the World Bank group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which between them employ nearly 10,000 people and spend $5 billion annually — we are still talking about total United Nations-system personnel of just around 61,400 and a total United Nations-system dollar cost of $18.2 billion. A total of 61,400 may sound like a lot of people, and it is, but perhaps it is not so many when we consider that more than this number — 65,000, in fact — are employed by the three Disney theme parks in California, Florida and France. Three times as many people sell McDonald’s hamburgers around the world as work for the United Nations system. And $18.2 billion might be a lot of money, but just one major multinational corporation, Dow Chemical, which happens also to have 61,000 employees world wide, has an annual revenue in excess of $20 billion. 14 When we put the financial problems of the United Nations into this kind of perspective, as I think we ought to do more often, the solutions do not really look quite so hard. Surely, between us, with our combined defence expenditure alone of around $767 billion, the 185 Member States can find that kind of money. But, of course, the problem of paying for the United Nations has now become critical because of the unwillingness or inability of so many of the Member States, including the biggest of us all, to pay their assessed contributions, notwithstanding that the cost of these for the major developed-country contributors works out at between $7 and $15 per head per year — the price of no more than one or two movie tickets in this city. We have a short-term problem, which I believe can and should be solved within the United Nations system by allowing the United Nations to borrow from the World Bank. But we also have a longer-term problem which, frankly, does not look as though it is going to be solved, however much we continue to work at adjusting assessment scales, exhort Member States to pay up and remind them of the consequences under Article 19 of the Charter if they fail to do so. So what are we to do about all this? In my judgement, it is time to look again — this time very seriously indeed — at the options which exist for supplementing Member States’ contributions with external sources of finance. The practicability of collecting a levy on every one of the $300,000 billion worth of foreign-exchange transactions that now occur every year remains to be fully assessed, but simple arithmetic tells us that if we strike a rate of just .001 per cent for such a levy, which hardly seems likely to have any significant economic consequences, we could generate $3 billion in revenue. Moreover, we know that if we could impose a levy on international airline passengers of $10 for every international sector flown, which would be very easily collectible indeed, we could also raise $3 billion: nearly the whole annual cost of United Nations peace operations. There are also other revenue options that, to a greater or lesser extent, have the same rational nexus with United Nations costs as these do, in that they involve transactions which are international, take place within a framework of law and cooperation provided by the United Nations and can be harmed by a breakdown in international peace and security — precisely the areas in which the United Nations has a fundamental responsibility. But traditionally, a threshold objection of principle has been mounted against any such talk. Member States, it has been said, should themselves wholly own the United Nations system; if the Secretariat had direct access to revenue other than assessed contributions of Member States, who knows what adventures it might be inclined to get up to. But ownership and control are totally separate issues. The United Nations operates on a sovereign-equality principle, which means that, for example, those six States which between them pay at present over 65 per cent of the United Nations regular budget should under no circumstances have greater authority over how it is spent than the overwhelming majority of Members, each of which pays much lesser proportions of the total. Whatever the funding sources involved, the crucial question is surely how and by whom the money is spent. It is absolutely crucial that there be appropriate control of funds by Member States, with all the accountability mechanisms that implies. But that does not mean that those Member States should themselves have to provide all the funds in the first place. In talking about these issues to many of my ministerial colleagues from a wide range of countries and across all continents over the last few days, I have found the almost unanimous reaction that the present, and likely continuing, financial crisis of the United Nations demands that these issues be looked at again, without any prejudgements of the questions of principle or practicability involved. I would suggest accordingly that the time is right for the Secretary-General to convene once again a high-level advisory group, like the Volcker-Ogata group established in 1992, with a mandate to think explicitly through what has hitherto been more or less unthinkable: how to fund the United Nations system in a way that reaches out beyond the resources that Member States are prepared to put directly into it. Such a group could report to or work with a committee of representatives of Member States — one in existence already, such as the High-Level Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations or one newly created for the purpose. A great deal of work has already been or is being done on many of these issues, and it should be possible for such a group to report within six months or so — certainly within a year. The parameters of the debate have to be changed, and for that to happen we need an authoritative new statement of the art of the possible. Here, as elsewhere, we have to move forward. We have to look to new ideas. We have to encourage 15 humankind’s ingenuity to search for better ways for States to deal with each other as relationships take new shape, as new States emerge and as problems which could not have been conceived of a few years ago become the challenges of the day. We will fail to meet those challenges if we adhere solely to the ideas and dogma of the past. The United Nations was itself founded on a mixture of idealism and pragmatism. Both were essential to build a new world 50 years ago, and in the past 50 years that idealism has not disappeared. It was an important force in bringing about the end of the cold war, and, more than anything else, it was idealism that lay behind the process of decolonization, which so shifted the tectonic plates of history. To some idealism will always be the enemy of practicality. But to others it will always involve, more than anything else, the courage to take advantage of new opportunities, ensuring that at least some of today’s ideals will become tomorrow’s reality. Perhaps now, 50 years beyond San Francisco, we need to renew that idealism and walk down some of those uncharted paths that idealists have always been prepared to tread. On behalf of the Government and people of Thailand, I should like to extend my warmest congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Freitas do Amaral, upon his election to the presidency of this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that under his leadership the work and achievements of this session will be as momentous as the occasion we are celebrating. I should also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, President of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. My delegation truly appreciates his leadership and his tireless dedication to the heavy responsibilities entrusted to him during the past year. Under his guidance, the forty-ninth session not only set the stage for the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations but also helped to reinforce its foundation and crystallized its agenda for the years to come. As this is the first time that I have had the honour to address the General Assembly on behalf of my Government and the people of Thailand in my capacity as Foreign Minister, I should like to reiterate my Government’s full and unflinching support for the purposes and principles of the United Nations and its all-encompassing work and endeavours. As a representative of a democratically elected Government, I am particularly pleased to note the increased role and involvement of the United Nations in promoting the principles and practices of democracy. Thailand believes that, as a global organization, the United Nations has an important role to play in advancing the concept of democracy and enhancing its principles in world affairs, as well as in the functions of the United Nations itself. It is with this conviction, therefore, that I should like to pledge Thailand’s fullest support for United Nations undertakings in this field. During the past few years, much has been said on the need to strengthen and revitalize the United Nations for the next 50 years, to prepare it for the challenges of the new century which will soon dawn upon us. Through the years, a number of useful proposals and recommendations on ways to improve the structure, working methods, efficiency and agenda of the United Nations have been made by numerous experts, practitioners and enthusiasts, from both within and outside the United Nations system. Yet much remains to be done if the United Nations is to be, in the words of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, a “mission-driven and result-oriented” Organization. In this regard, Thailand believes that a number of crucial ingredients are necessary to effectuate a successful reform of the United Nations system. Most important, the reform must be comprehensive and universal. The reform process should take place in all agencies within the United Nations system, encompassing all aspects of the work and activities of the United Nations. A special effort should be made to coordinate all reform initiatives, particularly in three main organs of the United Nations, namely the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. For this reason, Thailand fully supports the General Assembly’s decision earlier this month to establish a high-level open-ended working group on the strengthening of the United Nations system in order to review and make observations on reform proposals attained from various sources. In line with this initiative, I should like to go a step further and propose that, in addition to the high-level open-ended Working Group, a focal point could be designated to coordinate all reform initiatives in all United Nations bodies. However, such a focal point need not supersede or subsume existing reform mechanisms, such as the High-Level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the Organization, the ad hoc open-ended Working Group on an Agenda for Development, and the Open-Ended Working Group on the reform of the Security Council. All these bodies should 12 coexist and coordinate with one another, and complement each other’s work. Having been a United Nations Member since 1946, Thailand shares the aspirations of all its fellow Members to see a more consolidated, cohesive and efficient United Nations system — one which would be able to fulfil the noble purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations; to deal urgently and effectively with threats to international peace and security; to respond effectively to the world’s economic, social and humanitarian needs; and to promote the goals of human security and sustainable development. Furthermore, Thailand is convinced that one must also ensure that the United Nations of the twenty-first century is more equitable, representative, democratic, transparent and accountable, allowing for the widest possible participation in all its decision-making and activities and serving the interests of all mankind. When speaking of these qualities, one is inclined to ponder the work on the reform of the Security Council. As the main organ entrusted with the primary responsibility of maintaining international peace and security, the Security Council must be restructured in such a way that it will be able to perform its duties effectively, while also ensuring its legitimacy and accountability. To achieve this goal, the reformed working methods and composition of the Security Council should allow for the widest participation by Member States, particularly those that are developing countries, while at the same time giving due recognition to States whose present world positions reflect the current global shift in power and influence. However, to simply reform the Security Council through its composition and working methods alone is not enough. If the Security Council is to be truly efficient and effective, we also need to rethink the way in which we view the role of the Security Council. We need to be more realistic in our expectations about what the Security Council should do and should be able to accomplish in a conflict situation. In other words, it is about time we considered limiting the scope and depth of the peace-keeping activities of the United Nations to a level where its involvement would be practical, meaningful and cost-effective. For this reason, my delegation welcomes the point raised by His Excellency Professor Dr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session, on the need to re-examine the United Nations general policy on peace-keeping. My delegation also welcomes the efforts being made in the Fifth Committee to reform the process of approving peace-keeping budgets and appropriations, which would help improve the management of the United Nations financial resources. My delegation is convinced that it would make good managerial sense for us to try to curtail the dramatic increase in the expenses of United Nations peace-keeping and related operations, which, in 1995, have grown to over $3 billion and are currently contributing to the United Nations financial difficulty. It is one thing to discuss United Nations efforts in maintaining international peace and security in financial and managerial terms and another to view them from the human perspective. The tribal, ethnic and religious conflicts that are the source of the ongoing hostilities in places such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Somalia, Lebanon and Cyprus existed long before the end of the cold war, many of them even long before the United Nations came into existence. There is not much the United Nations can do as long as the peoples involved have no desire to coexist in peace. That is why Thailand fully supports the United Nations continuing work on the Agenda for Peace, initiated by the United Nations Secretary-General in 1992. In particular, Thailand believes that the concepts of preventive diplomacy and confidence-building, as espoused by the initiative, could do much to promote peace and understanding in all regions of the world. Along this line, Thailand and the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) have, since 1971, initiated the concept of a Zone of Peace, Freedom and Neutrality in South-East Asia (ZOPFAN), the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia in 1976, and, most notably, the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) in 1994, involving 18 States from the Asia-Pacific region and the European Union. It is most gratifying that, after two years of existence, the ARF has increasingly proved to be a useful instrument of peace and understanding and has made significant contributions to efforts towards preventive diplomacy and confidence-building in the Asia-Pacific region. During the past year, a number of important developments have taken place within the realm of the global economy. The establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO), although still in its initial stage, augurs well for the eventual realization of a transparent, balanced and effective world trading regime. Continued efforts should be made to integrate major trading economies, as well as those in transition, into the WTO framework in order to more fully to globalize the norms and practices of free and fair trade. 13 Similarly, the conclusion of the Uruguay Round agreements provided hope for a more equitable and open global trading system. It is essential that these agreements be implemented in full as soon as possible. It is essential also that States parties refrain from using unilateral and arbitrary measures, which would be contrary to the spirit and provisions of the agreements and obstruct the free flow of trade between States and regions. The sad reality is that, in spite of the agreements, trading States, such as Thailand, still suffer from unilateral and arbitrary measures in areas such as agriculture, textiles and light-manufacture products. For this reason, Thailand believes that further discussions and negotiations on the accelerated implementation of the Uruguay Round commitments and related issues are still necessary. Efforts should also be made to ensure that the outcome of these discussions and negotiations would make it possible to strike a balance between the interests and concerns of developing countries and that of their more developed counterparts. Thailand further believes that to this end, United Nations institutions such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) can play a major role in amalgamating, and giving expression to, the interests and concerns of all involved, particularly those of the developing, and least developed, members of the world economy. Global trade agreements are not the only ones that bring countries closer together. Another welcome development in the international economy is the closer cooperation among regional and subregional economic groupings. The linkages among these entities in various parts of the world have, in effect, created a network of interdependence that has tremendous potential and would benefit all concerned. However, continued care must be exercised to make certain that these groupings will not turn inward and become mutually exclusive regional trading blocs. Such a development would be detrimental to the spirit of multilateralism that has been fostered by this body for the past 50 years and to the world’s trading system. While economic cooperation within a regional context such as ASEAN has become commonplace, it is noteworthy that cooperative frameworks now span the divide of North and South, East and West. Oceans are no longer a separation. Efforts such as the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and the ASEAN-European Union promise to forge closer economic cooperation across the regions, regardless of geographical distance and boundaries. As these growing networks of cooperation extend their reach across the globe and transoceanic trade multiplies, geographical and economic distinctions become increasingly irrelevant. The sharp dividing lines between the rich and the poor, the Western and the Eastern hemispheres, are indeed diminishing. Sustainable economic development must go hand in hand with sustainable human development. There can be no prosperity as long as people are denied their basic rights and the satisfaction of their needs. As a country that attaches high importance to the principles of social equity, social welfare and human rights, Thailand fully supports the United Nations efforts in areas such as the alleviation of poverty, education, health care and the combating of drug abuse and trafficking. Drug trafficking, in particular, has always received special attention from Thailand. Geographically located near the so-called “golden triangle”, Thailand has consistently supported, at both the global and the regional level, international efforts aimed at the prevention, control and suppression of narcotic drugs. This support has been intensified in recent years with the advent of the twentieth-century epidemic of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). Thailand believes that like the drug problem, the disease, with its devastating effects on mankind, is of global concern and should be dealt with jointly by the international community. In this context, my delegation would like to voice its support for the United Nations ongoing work on initiatives relating to the Agenda for Development, which would help us find more pragmatic approaches to development and address the aforementioned economic, social and human security issues in all their dimensions in a more effective and fruitful manner. In spite of the many achievements of the United Nations during the past 50 years, in the year 1995, we still find ourselves far away from what the authors of the United Nations Charter had hoped for and dreamed of in 1945. Therefore, in this fiftieth anniversary year, it is most appropriate that we, the peoples of the United Nations, rededicate ourselves to the realization of the hopes and dreams of the framers of the United Nations Charter, for our own sake and for the sake of our children. Through the years, we have asked and taken much from the United Nations. We continue to do so with much greater intensity and in much greater multitude. It is now time for us to reinvest in the United Nations. We must give back not only quantitatively but also qualitatively. Imperfect as it is, there is no substitute for the United Nations. 14 The generation of the Second World War created the United Nations for us. They lit for us all a beacon of hope. It is now our responsibility to bequeath to our posterity a brighter beacon, a revitalized and strengthened United Nations which would withstand the test of time and help us overcome the challenges of the next century. On behalf of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania it gives me pleasure to convey to Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, our warmest congratulations on his unanimous election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. We are convinced that his well-known personal skills are the best guarantee for the success of the work of this session which acquires special significance as it coincides with the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations. I should also like to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the sister republic of Côte d’Ivoire, who led the work of the forty- ninth session in an excellent and praiseworthy manner. I should also like to take this opportunity to reiterate to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations, the confidence of my country and our support of his efforts so that the Organization may fully perform its proper role and succeed in defusing hotbeds of tension throughout the world. We have clearly stated, on previous occasions, that the deteriorating economies of the developing countries and the widening gap between the rich and poor countries are the two principal causes of the proliferation of hotbeds of tension and bloody wars that, more often than not, wipe out every economic achievement, plunge the peoples of developing countries into cruel suffering and deprive them of the right to lead a decent life of security, stability, and development towards a better future. As we have noted in the past, the fact that structural adjustment programmes neglect the necessary assessment of the social cost of such adjustment and focus on correcting the macroeconomic balance, has had the effect of causing such programmes to fall short of achieving the desired positive results. In this connection, we had voiced concern over the possibility that the deterioration of the economic conditions of developing countries would limit the impact of such international instruments as environmental conventions and programmes that promote the rights of children and women, and human rights in general. Today we note that despite the convening of numerous international conferences such as the World Summit for Children in New York, the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen, and the Fourth World Conference for Women in Beijing, there is nothing on the horizon yet that may give cause for hope that radical solutions to the many problems besetting the most vulnerable peoples in the poorest countries throughout the developing world are beginning to emerge. While these international conferences, in addition to the Agenda for Development of the Secretary-General of the United Nations have drawn the broad outlines of future policies that would deal with such problems, no specific formulae for putting those policies into practice have emerged yet. On the contrary, we note that the deterioration of the terms of trade and the reduction in official development assistance (ODA) have continued and have been the two principal causes that aggravate the stifling economic crises which have so many third world countries in their grip. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania which, since 1984, has been engaged in a determined battle that aims at restructuring the Mauritanian economy despite difficult domestic, regional and international conditions, has made tangible progress towards restoring the macroeconomic balance and reducing its foreign debt, a fact that is attested to by international financial institutions. In striving for these objectives, my Government, under the wise guidance of His Excellency the President of the Republic, Mr. Maaouya Ould Sid’ Ahmed Taya, have pursued liberal economic policies that neglect not a single aspect of economic and social development. These economic policies that we pursue encompass the following broad sectors: road building, the electrification of cities, combating desertification, development of water networks, combating illiteracy, the empowerment of women and development of the child, education for all, and health coverage for the whole population. In seeking to achieve these objectives, the Government of Mauritania focuses on developing the agricultural, mineral and fisheries sectors which form the backbone of our economy. In view of the nature of such development plans and social policies the Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania have participated in all the negotiations that led to the adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which entered into force on 16 14 November 1994, and participated also in the negotiations which culminated in the conclusion of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, signed in Paris on 14 October 1994. It is our fervent hope that the international community will make available the resources required for the implementation of this Convention which will benefit principally the African countries that are most affected by drought and desertification. The United Nations, which will commemorate its fiftieth anniversary, in a few days’ time, is now required to adapt to the realities of the age in order for it to be able to face up to the challenges of a world that is being torn apart by regional conflicts and whose progress towards prosperity is obstructed by very complex social and economic crises. Such a situation requires us to undertake the necessary structural reforms and to make available to the Organization the necessary material means and moral support that would enable it to discharge the tasks entrusted to it. We have indicated here in the past that the spread of democracy and respect for human rights constitute the most important gains made by the international community. We have indicated also that democracy should not be limited to the national framework of any individual State but must extend to the relations between States. Proceeding from this, we have reiterated, on many occasions, that we support increasing the membership of the Security Council in consonance with the behests of democratic transparency, the principles of equality of States, and in accordance with Article 24 of the United Nations Charter, which stipulates that in carrying out its duties the Security Council acts on behalf of all the Member States. In view of this, it is essential that the Council should reflect the universal nature of the Organization. We also consider it necessary to restructure the Secretariat in order to revitalize it and enhance its efficiency. The Economic and Social Council must be restructured so that it can discharge the tasks entrusted to it. The activities of the Secretariat and the specialized agencies must be coordinated so that efforts may not be wasted and the modest resources available for resolving development problems could be put to optimum use. As our overriding concern will always be the search for peace, my country spares no effort in supporting the international endeavour to replace war and tension with peace and stability throughout the world. We have encouraged and continue to encourage the use of preventive diplomacy in order to avoid new human tragedies. This is an approach that has always led to satisfactory results. In the Middle East, there is stronger hope that the international efforts which have been deployed since the Madrid Conference will put an end to the tragedy of the Palestinian people and restore to that people its legitimate right to establish its own independent State. The signing of the Declaration of Principles on the autonomy of the Gaza Strip and Jericho, on 13 September 1993, the Cairo agreement, on 4 May 1994, the agreement between Jordan and Israel and, finally, the Taba accord, which was signed in Washington on 28 September 1995, on the implementation of the second phase of the Declaration of Principles, gives us hope that peace in the Middle East is now on the horizon. We do hope that there will be progress on the tracks of the peace process initiated with Syria and Lebanon and that solutions to all the unresolved humanitarian issues related to this conflict may be found in order for a just and lasting peace that would be based on the principles of mutual respect to promote fruitful cooperation and brotherly relations between all the peoples of the region. It is fitting here to congratulate the parties directly concerned and all the countries that, from near or far, have supported the efforts for peace. We also encourage all the parties concerned to keep moving forward so that the opportunities for peace which are available today may not be wasted. If those opportunities are frittered away, the situation is bound to become more complicated. In that same region of the world, the residue of the Gulf war, unfortunately, are still taking their toll. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania, which, from the very beginning, given its commitment to international legality, has totally rejected any infringement of the independence and territorial integrity of fraternal Kuwait, and called for resolving the question of Kuwaiti prisoners and detainees, now wishes to declare its rejection of any infringement of the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq. Mauritania believes it is now time to put an end to the suffering of the brotherly Iraqi people. In the same context, the fraternal State of the United Arab Emirates continues to claim its legitimate 15 sovereignty over the islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Moussa. Mauritania reiterates its support for the United Arab Emirates in this respect. In the Maghreb, the United Nations continues to deploy efforts towards organizing a referendum on self- determination in Western Sahara. We hope that the United Nations, which has enjoyed our country’s full support, will overcome the remaining obstacles and succeed in organizing the referendum within the time-frame set by the Security Council so as to achieve a just and definitive settlement of the Saharan question. As we did last year, and as we have done on every occasion, we call for the lifting of the embargo imposed on the fraternal people of Libya, in the light of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya’s stated readiness to cooperate with both the United Nations and the other parties concerned, since that embargo is detrimental to the interests of all the peoples of the Maghreb. In Africa, we are still concerned over the continuance of armed conflicts in several brotherly African countries. Whereas our Liberian brothers have succeeded, through dialogue, in concluding the Abuja Agreement and setting out plans that we hope will restore peace to that country. The situation in Somalia, regrettably, has not changed, and the afflicted Somali people is still threatened with extermination by fratricide and famine. We also hope that our Rwandan brethren will succeed in resolving their problems at the negotiating table. We welcome the progress achieved by our Angolan brethren, whose efforts have led to the signing of an agreement for peace and for the settlement of their political problems. We hope the sustained efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity will continue until these brotherly countries can enjoy peace so that their peoples may devote themselves to rebuilding all that has been devastated by civil wars. We note with satisfaction that in Europe the member countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization have adopted a new posture vis-à-vis the Serbian aggression against the Muslims of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I should like to voice the hope that in future greater determination will be shown in dealing with this problem increasingly sternly until such time as the Serbs agree to a just and comprehensive solution that would guarantee all the peoples concerned the right to sovereignty on their territory and the right to live in peace within secure, internationally recognized borders. The many humiliations suffered by the United Nations forces at the hands of the Serbs and the massacres of innocent Muslims perpetrated by the Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina make it necessary for the international community, particularly the permanent members of the Security Council, to impose respect for international legality and to restore the credibility of the United Nations by putting an end to the bloodshed that has gone on for several years in that part of the world. The commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations affords an opportunity for giving deep thought to finding the best means of facing up to the challenges of our times and to equipping our Organization with the military capability and material resources that would enable it to address problems at the international level with a single standard based on the principles of equality and justice. The same should apply to the Organization’s activities in the areas of peace-keeping and aid for development, as well as in its endeavours to ensure that the world will enjoy prosperity, peace and brotherhood and to promote freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. Allow me on behalf of the Ugandan delegation to convey our warm greetings to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on the occasion of his election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. His election does great honour to his country, Portugal, with which Uganda enjoys very cordial relations. We are confident that Mr. Freitas do Amaral will guide the Assembly’s deliberations to a successful conclusion. Allow me also to pay special tribute to His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, for the skilful manner in which he presided over the work of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I salute the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts in the service of our Organization. Fifty years ago, in the aftermath of the Second World War, with its destructive nationalism, economic and social depression and the attendant social dislocation, the United Nations was established. It was founded by men and women who were determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. They created the United Nations as the only universal international organization that would exist to cope with global problems and ensure that the international community enjoyed peace and prosperity. The United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provided the bedrock for a new system of rights and obligations for the promotion of international peace and security. The new order, organized on the basis of universality and sovereign equality, was intended to encompass all nations, large and small, strong and weak, in order to promote the well-being of all peoples. The United Nations thus emerged as a beacon of hope out of the ruins and darkness of the Second World War. Today this vision remains as valid as it was 50 years ago. It is for that reason that we reaffirm our confidence in the Organization and its global mandate. In the five decades of the existence of the United Nations, the world has witnessed remarkable changes. The communications revolution and the globalization of the world economy have transformed the world into a global village and have increased interdependence among nations. The cold war, which dominated the post-War era, ended, with the favourable dramatic transformation of East-West relations. Over 100 States which were colonial dependencies in 1945 achieved independence. We also witnessed the birth of a free, non-racial and democratic South Africa and the elimination of the obnoxious system of apartheid. While the end of the cold war has reduced tension between the major Powers and has facilitated the resolution of a number of regional conflicts, we continue to witness the proliferation of intra-State conflicts. These are new challenges which call for more innovative approaches and which underscore the continuing relevance of the United Nations. We believe that the United Nations should address in a concrete and decisive manner the issue of socio-economic development, without which peace and security cannot be sustained. The United Nations and the international community have to renew their resolve to eradicate poverty and deprivation. This spectre of poverty and deprivation is rampant in Africa and in the least developed countries. We should act collectively and decisively to change this situation. The fiftieth anniversary celebrations are a fitting occasion to make this solemn commitment. It is no coincidence that our region, Africa, which is the least developed in the world, is also the most affected by strife and conflict. In order to put an end to this we need to foster a comprehensive approach which addresses the root causes of these conflicts and consolidates and guarantees durable peace and security. To this end, we must, first of all, boost our capacity to anticipate and prevent conflicts before they occur, through preventive diplomacy. Secondly, we should be prepared to respond swiftly to emergency situations. And lastly, we must consolidate the peace by putting in place recovery and rehabilitation programmes in order to create the economic conditions for peace and stability. In addition to this, there should be increased recognition of the role of the affected regions in the formulation of appropriate responses. It is for this reason that we consider the establishment of the Organization of African Unity mechanism for conflict prevention, management and resolution a timely and appropriate initiative. The Organization of African Unity decision to put in place a Central Organ for that mechanism was an equally positive development. We appeal to the international community to render the requisite financial and technical support to complement Africa’s efforts to make these institutions work. We salute the return of peace to Cambodia, Haiti, Mozambique and Angola, and we are encouraged by the positive developments in Liberia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Middle East. We commend the steps being taken by the Government in Rwanda to restore normalcy and national reconciliation, and we call for expeditious and full activation of the International Tribunal for Rwanda. We believe that it is possible to contain the situation in Burundi and avoid the replication of the genocide that was perpetrated in Rwanda last year. We continue to be concerned about the situation in Somalia and call for reconciliation among the parties to the conflict there. As regards Western Sahara, we urge all parties to exercise the statesmanship necessary to prepare the way for a just and durable solution. In order to consolidate and give hope to all these troubled parts of the world the international community must render all necessary support. We in Uganda will continue to contribute to conflict resolution, peacemaking and peace-keeping, within our capabilities. The threat posed by the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction remains a matter of grave concern to this Organization. We welcome the conclusion of the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). This should strengthen the non-proliferation regime. If that is to be fully realized, it should be complemented by the entry into force of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. It is deplorable that, in spite of the indefinite extension of the NPT, some countries have continued to carry out nuclear tests. This goes against the letter and the spirit of the understanding on the indefinite extension of the non-proliferation Treaty. We note the progress made so far in the negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban Treaty, and we urge its early conclusion. We welcome various regional initiatives aimed at establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones and we support the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Africa as a contribution to global disarmament efforts. In both its domestic and its foreign policy, Uganda accords high priority to the observance of human rights. We have entrenched in the new Constitution a human rights commission as an institutional framework for the development and observance of human rights. We wish to express our appreciation to all countries and institutions that have supported us in our efforts to develop and strengthen human-rights monitoring and enforcement capabilities. We have just completed the process of establishing a Constitution, aimed at consolidating the rule of law. The new Constitution was enacted on 22 September 1995 by a democratically elected Constituent Assembly and is due to be promulgated shortly. The Constitution paves the way to the holding of general and presidential elections, which are scheduled for early next year. This will enhance the empowerment of the people to take charge of their own governance and their own destiny. The Government has made efforts to empower our people, especially women, young people and other vulnerable groups. Within the framework of the bottom-up Resistance Council system, the population has been mobilized and provided with modest capital — entandikwa — as part of our national endeavour to create productive and income-generating opportunities in order to improve the earning capacity of the family and, thus, improve the living conditions of the people. As we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we should reaffirm our commitment to the primacy of the democratic principle at all levels, including that of the United Nations. It is in this context that Uganda supports restructuring of the Security Council to make it more transparent and democratic in its decision-making, and more representative of the increased membership of the United Nations. In the same vein, we urge that the Bretton Woods institutions take into account the problems, concerns and aspirations of developing countries in the formulation and design of policies and programmes in order to respond to their social and economic needs. Many developing countries continue to be adversely affected by the uneven and inequitable trends in the global economy. These trends have widened further the gap between the rich and the poor countries. The socio- economic situation in Africa is critical and continues to deteriorate. It is characterized by a weak physical and institutional infrastructure, underdeveloped human resources, epidemics and disease, lack of adequate shelter, poverty and deprivation. All these factors undermine peace and stability, and this, in turn, hampers growth and development. We have undertaken bold economic and political reforms in Uganda with a view to creating an environment conducive to the consolidation of social and economic progress. These reforms have been characterized by the attainment of basic macro-economic stability and the enhancement of democracy and the rule of law, and they have stimulated reasonable economic growth and social progress. In spite of these modest achievements our countries continue to depend heavily on the export of primary commodities, which do not attract fair prices in international markets. There has also been a steady decline in the availability of both domestic and external resources for development. To compound the situation, most of our countries are saddled with heavy debts, the servicing of which is no longer sustainable. All these and other factors have contributed to the marginalization of Africa and have made it difficult for the continent to benefit from the positive impulses of globalization and the liberalization of world trade. These issues were reviewed at the high-level segment of the Economic and Social Council, which addressed the theme of African development and implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, and in the ongoing discussion here at the United Nations about the mid-term review of the Global Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s. The two meetings agreed that the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the global Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s remained largely unimplemented. We should seize the opportunity provided by the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations to decide on concrete actions that will give hope to the peoples of Africa and of the least developed countries. The stagnation and decline in official development assistance (ODA) are disturbing. We are equally concerned at the wavering commitment towards the eleventh replenishment of the international development assistance fund. We urge our development partners to fulfil the internationally agreed obligations with regard to official development assistance. This would be a fitting and tangible show of solidarity with Africa and, indeed, the least developed countries. Our external indebtedness and debt-servicing obligations have reached unsustainable levels. We therefore call for an urgent once-and-for-all development- oriented initiative on all types of debts, which could 3 include the following: first, an enhancement of the Naples terms and an improvement in its accessibility; and, secondly, a significant initiative on multilateral debts, including a softening of the financing terms of International Monetary Fund (IMF) loans to make it IDA-comparable. These initiatives could be achieved through the sale of IMF gold stocks and by creating an appropriate debt-relief facility. We believe these actions will release much-needed resources, which are currently going into the debt-servicing of development activities, including the eradication of poverty. At the moment Africa accounts for a meagre 2.4 per cent of world merchandise trade. In the context of the Uruguay Round agreements, it is estimated that the continent could lose up to $2.6 billion annually in the course of the initial years of the implementation of the agreement. By contrast, global trade will be boosted by $500 billion annually. The legitimate concerns of Africa and the least developed countries have been identified and specific measures to address them have been recommended by both the Ministerial Decision of Marrakesh and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). For Africa to benefit from the liberalization of world trade, these measures, including capacity-building, compensation, enhanced-market-access provisions and financial assistance towards institutional and economic transformation, must be implemented fully and without delay. To assist in the follow-up and implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements, two institutions are significant and must be strengthened and supported — UNCTAD as the institution with a specific focus on trade and development issues, especially as they relate to developing countries; and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) because of its role in the promotion of industrialization. We note the ongoing discussions under the open-ended ad hoc Working Group of the General Assembly on an Agenda for Development. It is our hope that this process will generate specific measures and commitments to address the specific problems of developing countries. We also hope that it will help to forge consensus on development which takes into account, and builds on, the commitments and programmes of action already agreed on in the series of United Nations conferences that have been held since 1990. Uganda is concerned about the serious problem posed by the rapid growth and spread of water hyacinth on Lake Victoria and other lakes and rivers in the Nile valley. This has adversely affected the ecological balance of our waters and the livelihood of our populations, who depend on fishing as a means of survival. Besides, the hyacinth is threatening to choke the Owen Falls Dam — our only major source of hydroelectric power. It has disrupted our water transportation system, which is very important for a land-locked country such as Uganda. We make an urgent appeal to the international community to extend support to enable us to address the problem of water hyacinth. We consider South-South cooperation to be an important aspect of development cooperation. The sharing and pooling of information, knowledge, markets and resources are some of the ways in which developing countries can promote their growth and development. To this end we are active participants in all arrangements for cooperation in our subregion and support the establishment of the African Economic Community. We believe that these arrangements and the institutions established to promote them, such as the South Centre, should be supported by the international community. The United Nations has over the years provided a forum for intensive dialogue on all issues. Through a series of global conferences, it has helped to forge international consensus on global problems — issues such as the environment, population, the status of women, human rights, development, and many more. Its specialized agencies have made an invaluable contribution in their respective spheres of activity and have provided humanitarian and development assistance to many parts of the world. In recent years, despite drastic limitations on personnel and resources, the United Nations has responded to the dramatic rise in the demand for peace- keeping and other emergency operations throughout the world. These are laudable accomplishments, which should strengthen our resolve and our confidence in support of the Organization. As we stand in the twilight of the twentieth century and approach the dawn of the new millennium, we should use the occasion provided by the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations to strengthen the Organization. We should demonstrate our dedication to the Organization and its component parts by providing it with the resources necessary for the accomplishment of its immense mandate. Our challenge is to bequeath to succeeding generations a democratic, transparent and more effective United Nations. 4 It is with great pleasure that I join previous speakers in congratulating Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. It is a great honour and a great challenge to be serving in that capacity at a time when the United Nations is marking its first 50 years of existence, and when people are hoping for a better world — as Mr. do Amaral noted in his statement last week — through peace, freedom, justice, education, health and development. Fifty years ago, the United Nations was formed to bring all nations of the world together to work for peace and development based on the principles of justice, human dignity and the well-being of all people. The United Nations aim of promoting international cooperation is still alive half a century later, although it is facing more challenges than ever before. Lithuania itself is facing, and meeting, new challenges. In the less than six years since the reestablishment of independence, Lithuania has enshrined 24 democratic values in its constitution, established the rule of law, promoted human rights and implemented free-market economic reforms. Our foreign policy is based on respect for international law, national sovereignty, human rights and peaceful coexistence among nations — especially our most immediate neighbours. The best testimony to our good- neighbourly relations is provided by the treaties we have concluded with all neighbouring States; they were a result of hard work and compromise. It is our view that they constitute a major contribution to the security of the region and of the entire world. Our other foreign-policy goals are also clearly defined. Lithuania is striving for full integration into European political, economic and collective-security structures. As an associate member of the European Union, our ultimate goal is full membership in the Union. Membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and in the Western European Union (WEU) is also a high priority. We look forward to continuing our cooperation with and our active participation in regional organizations such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe. The United Nations is facing new challenges today. A half-century later it is not only proper to assess the Organization’s performance, but also necessary to prepare it for the new demands and problems resulting from the dramatic changes that have come about since the end of the cold war. The number and importance of the challenges that face the United Nations call for reforms. The United Nations is expected to solve many problems, such as armed conflicts, human rights violations, the poverty gap and humanitarian crises. The problems presented by conflicts such as those in the former Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Liberia, Rwanda, Burundi and Somalia are in many ways unprecedented. The United Nations is expected to provide development assistance and emergency relief to refugees. It is expected to promote democracy and to safeguard the health and rights of women and children. The United Nations is expected to play a leading role in solving environmental and population problems and in securing sustainable development. It is expected to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction. If the United Nations is to live up to these expectations, Member States will have to provide it with the necessary means to do so. For this reason, Lithuania attaches importance to the efforts aimed at the revitalization, strengthening and reform of the United Nations system, and will follow with interest the initiatives directed towards that goal. Good management in the Secretariat is an important tool in achieving that goal. Better productivity and increased cost-effectiveness, as well as accountability and responsibility, can make a difference in creating a more mission-driven and result- oriented Organization. Energies and resources within the United Nations system need to be utilized in a more effective and coordinated manner if the Organization is to meet the challenges that lie ahead. Likewise, there is a need for integrated policies to address these global problems, which too often are treated as separate questions. In that regard, we see a close connection between “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development”, and are in full agreement that the quest for peace and security should not divert attention from other fundamental objectives of the Organization, especially in the fields of economic and social development. Another priority for a revitalized United Nations is reform of the Security Council. Lithuania supports continued discussion on the transparency of the work of the Security Council. Recent informal arrangements to improve consultation on peace-keeping between the Secretariat, the Security Council and troop contributors should be further developed. The Security Council must be more representative of the greatly expanded membership of the United Nations, and it has to take into account the interests of small States and of all regions, including those of Central and Eastern Europe. We believe that an increase in the overall membership of the Council is needed and that an increase in the permanent membership should reflect current geopolitical realities. In this context, Lithuania supports an increase in the number of permanent members of the Security Council with new members to come from among countries that make an exceptional contribution to the activities of the United Nations. This would significantly strengthen the authority and capability of the United Nations as a whole. It goes without saying that reform of the Security Council should not decrease its effectiveness or its efficient functioning. The tremendous increase in and complexity of peace-keeping operations in recent years clearly signals the need for change. We cannot ignore the financial consequences of this increase. The budget for peace- keeping operations currently amounts to approximately $3.6 billion. We must strengthen preventive diplomacy in order to avoid overextending our capabilities in the area of peace-keeping. Nevertheless, Lithuania will continue to play its part in peace-keeping, as it is already doing in the United Nations Confidence Restoration Operation in 25 Croatia (UNCRO); it stands ready to do more. The third platoon of Lithuanian peace-keepers is now serving in Croatia within the Danish battalion. We are actively participating in the NATO Partnership for Peace programme and are moving forward on the formation and training of a Baltic peace-keeping battalion. Lithuania also welcomes the growing interaction between the United Nations and regional organizations, such as the OSCE and NATO, in the field of peace-keeping operations. This approach enables regional organizations to share the common burden of peace-keeping functions and to contribute, together with the United Nations, to the maintenance of peace and security. OSCE missions are actively promoting peaceful political solutions to regional crises in Chechnya, Georgia, Nagorny-Karabakh, Tajikistan and elsewhere. Although Lithuania believes that European countries should try to solve their own problems in the framework of the OSCE before turning to the United Nations, we hope that cooperation between the OSCE and the United Nations will be strengthened in areas of common concern, particularly on issues concerning stability and security in the OSCE area. Further work needs to be done in developing a standard set of principles for peace-keeping activities undertaken by individual States or third parties. Any strategy for preventing armed conflicts should involve disarmament and non-proliferation objectives. The easy availability of arms contributes to the scale of suffering in conflict situations as well as to the outbreak of conflict itself. Lithuania wholeheartedly supported the indefinite and unconditional extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), because it views the Treaty as a crucial instrument for preventing the spread of nuclear weapons and for reducing existing stocks. We recognize that, although the threat posed by nuclear weapons is of prime concern, the ongoing use of conventional weapons is equally dangerous. There is a need for States to exercise greater responsibility and restraint in their arms transfers. The United Nations Register of Conventional Arms has led to greater transparency, but a code of conduct for conventional arms transfers could set out common principles to be observed in this area. Drug trafficking and associated international crime are another growing threat to the security and well-being of nations and peoples. We give our full support to the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, which has the responsibility of leading the global fight against this scourge. In view of the continuous and growing rise in drug-related problems throughout the world, including in our region, we encourage closer cooperation in this area. The situation in Rwanda and in former Yugoslavia is uppermost in our minds, as are other armed conflicts closer to home, which have resulted in bloodshed and systematic violations of human rights. Racial and ethnic hatred have led to particularly inhumane behaviour. These horrible lessons must never be forgotten; nor should these crimes against humanity go unpunished. This is why we are in favour of strengthening mechanisms to monitor and protect human rights by fully implementing the mandate of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, and by strengthening the Centre for Human Rights. In order to avoid duplication, we encourage further coordination of United Nations human rights activities with regional bodies carrying out similar mandates. Lithuania also feels that the mandate for peace- keeping operations could include a human rights component with clearly established reporting and verification procedures. When terrible crimes are committed and when human rights are systematically violated despite all efforts, Lithuania believes that those responsible, including the actual perpetrators, should be prosecuted. We thus support moves to establish a permanent international criminal court which would have jurisdiction over serious crimes of international concern, wherever they occur. Lithuania places great importance on the work of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) as the principal funding agency and coordinator of United Nations technical and development assistance. Since the establishment of the UNDP office in Vilnius in 1992, my Government, with support from UNDP, has launched programmes in such priority sectors as democratization and the development of civil society, public administration reform and the social impact of transition. We are especially grateful for UNDP assistance in the preparation of our 1995 national development report. My Government reaffirms the need for the full integration of countries with economies in transition into the world economy and for continued United Nations support in achieving that goal. We see the concept of transition as a temporary one, which at this point in time identifies the special needs and immediate concerns of 26 countries undergoing fundamental political, economic and social transformation. We hope that these needs and concerns will be reflected in “An Agenda for Development”. Lithuania recognizes the fine work done by the Economic Commission for Europe in diagnosing the problems of transitional economies and in preparing useful recommendations. I also wish to take this opportunity to acknowledge the work of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in my country. UNICEF has provided much-appreciated technical and advisory services on meeting global objectives for the welfare of children. Recent major international conferences in Rio de Janeiro, Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing have addressed important strategies and goals for development. Coordinated follow-up and implementation of the recommendations of these conferences will require not only the commitment of Governments, but greater coordination in United Nations operational activities and improved coherence in programmes. Fully recognizing and supporting the obligation of all Member States to pay their contributions in full and on time, Lithuania also believes in the principle of sovereign equality, that is the equal rights of all Member States. In our case, those rights were violated by the assignment in 1992 of inequitable assessment rates to the Baltic States and the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), which were above the capacity of those States to pay. We have participated in the work of the high-level working group on the financial situation of the United Nations and have followed the work of the working group on the principle of capacity to pay. We welcome the partial improvement in our rates of assessment due to the 50 per cent phasing out of the scheme of limits for 1995-1997. Next month the Lithuanian Committee for the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations will commemorate this anniversary with an impressive programme. Emphasis is being placed on youth education, the main themes on the agenda of the United Nations and the achievements of the Organization over the past five decades. We must, however, remind ourselves of what the United Nations has not yet achieved. Let us hope that those unattained goals will inspire us to move forward with the same vision and commitment as the founders of the United Nations did 50 years ago. Let me at the outset extend to Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal the sincere good wishes of the Government and people of Sri Lanka on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this its historic fiftieth session. We are privileged to have him guide its deliberations. My delegation offers him the same full cooperation that we extended to all his predecessors in that high office. Our gratitude is due Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, who presided over the forty-ninth session with great skill and wisdom. When I addressed the Assembly last year, I reported that the people of Sri Lanka had secured an electoral victory for “moderation, tolerance and unity” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Plenary Meetings, 5th meeting, p. 23) in a society that had passed through harrowing times. I detailed the initiatives taken by the Government of President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, supported by a number of political parties, including those of the two principal minority communities, to resolve outstanding ethnic and other disputes through a bold process of political negotiation. That process was launched, but later encountered set-backs, primarily because one of the groups with which the Government had commenced talks abruptly returned to violence and terrorism, rejecting the peaceful option to which the rest of the country is committed. The Government has been constrained to take unavoidable reactive military measures to safeguard the lives, the security and the welfare of those who are threatened by the terrorist group. So long as they aim at our leaders the threat of assassination, we cannot believe that their professions of peace are sincere. We continue to fulfil our obligations to all our citizens, including those trapped in the north of the country. Supplies of food and other essential requirements are being made available by the Government and delivered through the International Committee of the Red Cross to our citizens in affected areas. This is an exceptional exercise which the late James Grant of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) described as uniquely humanitarian in a conflict situation. We are deeply troubled and concerned about the situation in which the children of the north and east of our country are placed. That mankind owes to the child the best it has to give is universally accepted. Yet we are appalled that in their desperation the militants, spurning the entreaties of distraught parents, have descended to conscripting children as young in age as 10 years to wage war and have even assigned them to suicide missions. A recent military encounter in north-eastern Sri Lanka revealed grim evidence confirming our worst fears. Most of the lives sacrificed by the leadership of the militants were teenagers barely able to carry arms, let alone understand the twisted mono-ethnic separatist ideology they have been indoctrinated to defend. In truth, it is the militants who must bear the ultimate responsibility for civilian casualties in this conflict. One of the challenges of peace that Sri Lanka will soon have to face is the need to overcome the terrible legacy of the subverted and distorted young minds, of the broken, bereft families and interrupted lives that the conflict will leave behind. All this has only increased my Government’s determination to fulfil an imperative mandate from the people, to rebuild a free society in our Republic which is 23 based on tolerance and understanding and in which all communities throughout the nation could live in harmony and dignity in accordance with the principles of democratic governance. The Government has accordingly presented comprehensive proposals, daring in their scope and reach, for the devolution of power to regional units. True to our long-established democratic tradition, a free-ranging national debate among Sri Lankans is proceeding on these proposals. The eventual implementation of agreed proposals will require compliance with the procedures appropriate for the amendment of our Constitution, including a two-thirds majority in Parliament and a national referendum. To help further enhance conditions of confidence for the observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms, my Government has presented legislation in Parliament to establish a Human Rights Commission in Sri Lanka. The Commission will consist of members chosen from among persons with knowledge and experience in the field of human rights. They will be appointed on the recommendation of a Constitutional Council — an independent and widely representative body reflecting all shades of political opinion. The proposed Commission will have monitoring functions in respect of executive and administrative practices as well as investigative functions to inquire into any infringement of fundamental rights. It will also have advisory and other functions, inter alia, to ensure that laws and administrative practices accord with international human-rights norms and standards and to facilitate inexpensive access to remedial relief. Sri Lanka has consistently supported United Nations initiatives for national institution-building in the field of human rights. It has been a source of major encouragement to us that the international community has supported the efforts of the Government of Sri Lanka in the pursuit of peace. While the eventual solution of our problems lies essentially in our own hands and through mechanisms of our own devising, we sincerely appreciate the interest and support of the international community. It is in this context that I have volunteered today to brief the Assembly on the situation in Sri Lanka. The significance of this session of the United Nations General Assembly extends well beyond the fact that it commemorates 50 years in the life of the Organization. International life is in constant flux. No era is wholly static. Yet the last decade or so has seen radical changes affecting virtually every aspect of life on this planet. Not all of such changes have been welcome. Not all of the changes have reached their logical, or indeed illogical, conclusion. The acclaimed transformation in South Africa has been a blessed exception. Institutionalized racism in its grosser forms has at last been vanquished. The South African experience has demonstrated the power of tolerance, understanding and inspired leadership to wear down the brutal, evil legacies of the past. It has also shown that there is a capacity for change in human attitudes once considered unthinkable. Racism, however, has continued in subtler forms elsewhere in the world. The international community must continue to be vigilant. That ugly phenomenon must never be tolerated, wherever it occurs and whatever its manifestations. Sri Lanka feels deeply that the African continent needs the wholehearted and vigorous support of the international community to overcome the obstacles to development and growth in this vital region of the world. The strengthening and utilization of the capacities and resources of Africa, identified by the African countries themselves and the Economic Commission for Africa, and concerted action to implement the Programme of Action for the Least-Developed Countries are urgently called for. The Middle East is the cradle of three of the world’s great religions. Yet historical prejudices have weighed down the quest for peace. Resort to violence and terrorism, the expropriation of land and the development of illegal settlements have conspired to impede the momentum for peace. Sri Lanka supports the continuation of the peace process in the Middle East, the realization of the inalienable national rights of the Palestinian people and the establishment of conditions of peace and stability for all States in the region which would enable them to develop within secure boundaries. Commitments made on interim agreements towards this objective, as Chairman Arafat of Palestine stated last Thursday, must be precise, honest and mutual. In Bosnia, Sri Lanka welcomes the fact that the parties concerned have found it possible to commence peace negotiations although the guns have yet to be finally silenced. We feel deeply for, and share the sorrow of, those who mourn for lives lost, lives disrupted in the affected communities. We hope that a viable settlement acceptable to all will soon be concluded. I had occasion recently, speaking in the Parliament of Sri Lanka, to condemn unreservedly the inhumane and cruel treatment that has been inflicted upon the Muslims in Bosnia. These and other atrocities committed in Bosnia have been fully documented by the United Nations rapporteurs and humanitarian agencies and need to be condemned by the international community. 24 The role of the United Nations in that conflict has received special focus as the Organization, in this its fiftieth year, undergoes a period of introspection. The situation in Bosnia has been an unusually complex one in which the United Nations has had to deal with developments without precedent in the Organization’s peace-keeping history. In terms of Article 17 of the United Nations Charter, peace- keeping is the collective financial responsibility of all States. A healthy, albeit controversial, debate has proceeded in the United Nations on peace-keeping and other related issues. The debate has made abundantly clear that United Nations intervention or involvement in any situation can expect to be successful only if certain basic considerations are heeded. First, any intervention must enjoy the general support and confidence of the international community and not be promoted merely to satisfy the political exigencies and partisan objectives of members of the Security Council or other powerful States. Secondly, in any intervention the consent of the countries in conflict must be clearly obtained. Finally, such politico-military operations must neither dominate United Nations activity nor be its principal financial liability. They must certainly not be carried out to the detriment of the pressing development priorities of the United Nations. In “An Agenda for Peace” the Secretary-General has sought to evaluate manifold aspects of contemporary peace and security, not merely the question of peace-keeping operations. This evaluation has had a continuous focus in the General Assembly, in the Security Council, in other forums such as the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries as well as in national debate since the Secretary-General’s initial report was presented in 1992. The cardinal aspect of “An Agenda for Peace” is the conviction that it is clearly better to prevent conflicts through heeding early warnings and encouraging quiet diplomacy rather than through launching major politico-military ventures to settle conflicts after they have erupted. While economic factors have not always been the cause of conflict, we very much agree with the Secretary- General that the foundations for peace lie primarily in the realm of economic and social development. The 1990s have often been described as a period of economic globalization, considering the increasing interdependence among States, greater international integration and flow of goods, services, capital and markets, as well as a more widespread and rapid dissemination of information and ideas through technological advancements in communications. Globalization is sometimes over- simplified as a phenomenon favourable to the emancipation of international economic activity. It is true that most economies which had been constricted or centrally controlled have now been liberalized and have, as it were, plugged in to the global economy. Yet, in the process, many developing countries have had to make painful structural adjustments in their economies at heavy cost to vulnerable sections of their populations. If there is greater overall international economic activity, it is also true that for many developing countries, despite their best efforts, the economic outlook has not been encouraging. The recent Conference of non-aligned countries held at Jakarta issued a renewed call for a new orientation between developed and developing countries whereby constructive dialogue and partnership were emphasized, based on a mutuality of interest and benefit, genuine interdependence and shared responsibility. A major thrust of this approach has been to work out new practical aspects of international development cooperation which would embrace developed as well as developing countries, the more secure economies as well as those that are more vulnerable. The final communiqué issued earlier this year in Halifax, at the Summit of the seven major industrialized countries, proclaimed their willingness to cooperate with others to develop a new approach to international cooperation and to define the particular contribution expected of the United Nations system to develop such an approach. A vital aspect of this exercise should be the enhancement of cooperation between the United Nations system and the Bretton Woods institutions. Calls made earlier for a restructuring of international economic relations and a North-South dialogue have floundered in a sea of slogans. But we must realize that global interdependence has made international cooperation an imperative, not a slogan. The United Nations must assert its part in a more effective new multilateralism. Almost two decades ago Sri Lanka adopted a liberal free-market economy in order to accelerate economic growth. My Government is taking steps to privatize State- controlled enterprises, in particular utilities and services provided by the Government, and to encourage foreign investment. We intend to benefit from the opportunities arising from the globalization of economic activity. A number of world conferences have recently been held, covering a series of generic issues which have a direct bearing on the lives of people the world over. These have demonstrated both the promise and the paucity of international cooperation. Agenda 21, produced 25 by the Rio Conference on Environment and Development, is yet to be fully operationalized due to the lack of necessary resources. Last year the International Conference on Population and Development affirmed the central role of the human being in all development and population activities. The World Summit for Social Development, held in March this year in Copenhagen, sought to promote concerted international action to deal with a crucial trio of contemporary concerns: poverty, unemployment and the disintegration of society. The World Conference on Women, in Beijing last month, dealt with a range of issues — political, social, religious and economic — affecting women and adopted a Platform for Action to empower women. All these conferences have emphasized that responsibility for major global problems needs to be shared and that action to deal with them needs to be taken in concert. Regrettably, if expectations have been great, resources for their realization have been meagre. The political determination necessary to transform commitments into action still appears far less than adequate. Despite the absence of optimal international cooperation in certain areas, some regional activities have made good progress. In our own region, the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) celebrates its tenth anniversary this year. The SAARC Preferential Trade Arrangement has made much headway and is expected to enter into force this year. We look to the future confident of consolidating our gains in a South Asian free- trade arrangement. Sri Lanka, together with our South Asian partners, will explore all avenues to seek and build on common ground and optimize regional cooperation in areas of mutual interest. Indeed, cooperation within, as well as between, regions offers much scope for economic progress and equitable sharing of global wealth. We look forward to greater interregional cooperation to advance this process. Sri Lanka was privileged to have served the Review and Extension Conference on the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and to facilitate the adoption of a package of decisions without resort to a vote. While the outcome of the Conference has been widely hailed, it is vital also to emphasize the need for the establishment of a comprehensive disarmament regime to meet the security concerns of all countries, including the non-nuclear-weapon States, through the realization of commitments undertaken under the Treaty and the decisions taken at the 1995 Conference by the nuclear-weapon States. These commitments include the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban Treaty, legally binding assurances to non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, the unimpeded, non-discriminatory transfer of nuclear technology for peaceful purposes and the eventual elimination of all nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction throughout the world. We have expressed our deep disappointment and concern over the resumption of nuclear testing by some nuclear Powers, which is contrary to the undertakings of utmost restraint entered into at the NPT Conference. We therefore urge that expeditious negotiations be conducted on a comprehensive test-ban treaty, with a view to concluding it in 1996. In this regard, we are happy to support President Clinton’s initiative to place the Geneva negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty on a faster track in order to achieve a zero-yield test-ban treaty by 1996. We also note the recent assurance in this respect given by President Chirac of France. The establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones and zones of peace is an essential part of regional security. The non-aligned countries, including Sri Lanka, have sought to establish conditions of peace, security and stability in the Indian Ocean region. The United Nations Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean, taking into account current realities, has been considering new, alternative approaches to ensuring peace and security in this vital but volatile region of the world. Sri Lanka, as Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee, has been in consultation with those permanent members of the Security Council that have not been participating in the Committee’s work in order to re-enlist their active participation and give fresh impetus to the process of strengthening cooperation in the Indian Ocean region, including in respect of non-military aspects of security. Sri Lanka’s initiative for Indian Ocean Marine Affairs Cooperation (IOMAC) has focused on the development of international cooperation in marine affairs in the economic, scientific and technical fields. The recent Mauritius and Perth initiatives on the Indian Ocean have recognized IOMAC’s pioneering effort in helping to widen cooperation in the marine sector. The process for the formalization of IOMAC through the ratification of the 1990 Arusha Agreement on the Organization for Indian Ocean Marine Affairs Cooperation is being further accelerated in order to provide an effective mechanism for intensifying cooperation, in keeping with the growing aspirations of the countries of the region. 26 The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations has spawned a variety of studies on the future of the Organization, initiated within as well as outside the United Nations. Working groups of the General Assembly have been busy during recent sessions, studying the financial situation of the Organization, development issues, the Security Council, the Agenda for Peace and other aspects of the United Nations. The issues are complex. Progress is slow. Decisions are few. A resolution on the strengthening of the United Nations system, patiently negotiated on the initiative of the President of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, was adopted by consensus. There is much to support a coordinated, rational and informed examination of recommendations which seek to strengthen the United Nations and render it a more effective and efficient Organization. A piecemeal approach may not be an effective one, given the complexity of the individual issues involved as well as their interrelationship. We look forward to further work on this initiative next year. The Security Council has perhaps been the single most contentious United Nations organ under scrutiny. Sri Lanka’s own position is that in many respects the Council still reflects power realities that prevailed 50 years ago. There can be no warrant for the perpetuation of exclusive rights without accommodation of other relevant considerations. A substantial increase in the membership of the United Nations, particularly from among developing counties, needs to be more equitably reflected in the composition of the Council as well. Furthermore, there are reasons, at least as compelling as those proclaimed 50 years ago to justify the status conferred at that time on the Council’s five permanent members, to now advance the claims of other States that aspire to join the five. These new aspirants to permanent-member status include, reasonably and justifiably in our view, non-aligned countries as well. Regrettably, eligibility claims for membership in the Council continue to be made on assumptions of power, military or economic, and its global or regional projection. But this vitiates basic principles underlying democratic representation and considerations of justice and equity. If regional criteria are considered, then, Asia, Africa and Latin America are either unrepresented or severely under-represented in the present Council. Finally, the veto power, given its untrammelled character and its association with the possession of nuclear weapons, needs, in our opinion, careful, sober review. The Security Council’s methods of work have in the recent past been subject to welcome improvement, particularly in permitting a better exchange of views between Council members and others. There is, however, much more that needs to be done to make the Security Council truly accessible, democratic and responsive to Member States of the United Nations, on whose behalf the Council is meant to act in accordance with Charter principles. A single example relating to the imposition and implementation of sanctions would suffice to indicate the gap between principle and practice. Situations in which sanctions are imposed vary greatly and no uniform rules are applicable. Sanctions cannot be applied with surgical precision to impact exclusively on those at whom they are aimed. Sanctions can thus hurt innocent civilians, affect entire economies and, as the Council itself acknowledges, impact adversely on third countries that are in no way involved in the transgressions of the regime against which sanctions are imposed. Yet decisions by the Council on the imposition of sanctions are not based on prior consultations with the countries concerned, to assess carefully the true impact, extent and reach of such extreme measures. As sanctions are mandatory, all countries are bound to implement them even when they have had no part in the decisions leading to them. In his “Supplement to An Agenda for Peace'”, the Secretary- General has made a number of useful recommendations relating to the serious problems encountered in the implementation of sanctions. The non-aligned countries have studied these proposals and we await further developments. Later this month, the United Nations will mark its fiftieth anniversary with a special commemorative meeting. Although the occasion will, by its very nature, embody the highest possible political commitment made by the international community to the United Nations, it must not be seen purely as an opportunity for the Organization to garner a harvest of tributes. Much ails the Organization. Nevertheless, it is Sri Lanka’s firm conviction that the membership of the United Nations has within it the means to reinvest in the Organization all it requires to fulfil the principles of the Charter. This would require much more than a symbolic declaration of commitment by each Member State. We owe it to the people we represent to strive diligently in the years to come to make this Organization truly a place where the highest aspirations of humanity can be fulfilled. Tentative programme of work Everything that could be said has been said during this annual routine, in which each Head of State or Government, or Minister, stands before the United Nations General Assembly. If all the speeches were to be published in a compendium, the same universal themes would be repeated a thousand times. The compendium would include the great, insoluble problems that, to various degrees, afflict the peoples of every continent, as well as the solutions that have already been found, and the promised solutions implicit in the constant efforts of this Organization, which, like any other human endeavour, has lived through 50 years of triumphs and frustration. We must rejoice that, thanks to the Organization’s vigilance and action, we have enjoyed — as never before — half a century of peace, although we lament the fact that we must now deploy efforts against violence born of intolerance, fanaticism and ethnic or religious strife that frustrate the achievement of the harmony for which mankind yearns. Alongside the impressive achievements of the world community, these 50 years have also seen numerous local conflicts that have taken 23 million lives. Eighty seven per cent of the weapons sold and used in the world come from the five countries that are permanent members of the Security Council. And, unbelievable as it might seem, at this stage of our political evolution, two atomic Powers are causing anxiety with inexplicable nuclear tests for which we criticized other Powers. But who can deny that in the fields of health, technology, environment, human rights, communications, the exploitation of the resources of the seas and many other fields, there is progress and hope, and at least a warning that awakens the universal conscience? Today’s statement by the Foreign Minister of Venezuela will be no different. Political scenarios change, as do ideologies, the most extraordinary crisis in history erupts, but life’s dramas continue, with man bruised by change, but for the first time wavering between hope and bewilderment. This situation results from the fact that we have rushed from one era to another without the demolition caused by war, although we have had the enthusiastic and confident contribution of students and workers, who have devoted their free time to making it. We note hardly any curiosity about the era we are approaching, an era as yet unnamed, though soon to be upon us it could be called anything: “post-capitalist”, “post-socialist” or “post-industrial”; or it could simply be described as a time of transition between two periods that our generations share. There has been talk, of course, of the end of history, with the end of ideological confrontation; that is precisely what makes history: incessant conflicts and passionate confrontations, fears and hopes, freedom and deprivation of freedom, in any of the forms of oppression that have always been applied. Man today has the vague feeling that he is in contact with all other men through the miracle of the media, fibre optics, and cybernetic systems, and yet, now that there are more human beings with whom solidarity may be felt, solidarity is more precarious and man’s loneliness is more poignant. To create a different world based on a solid, complex and long-lasting Organization that has been taking shape since the end of the First World War, we have begun to talk — since we want words to describe what is going on — of globalization, of integration, of the abolition of the nation-State and its replacement by large blocs, in order to produce through strength of numbers and unity a new dynamic different from military might. 8 Let us suppose, then, that the world of the future will have to be shaped according to regions, or large integrated groups or communities, regional or otherwise, that have a common cultural origin and wish to be identified with the others, because of the particular characteristics of their culture, such as tradition, language, religion and even mixed blood. This is what strikes me, as I now appear for the first time before so distinguished a forum to speak on behalf of a country such as mine — a country with a modest economy, a small population, a territory that is medium-sized but which, owing to its excellent geographical situation, developed more than others; a culture of social freedom, of mixed races and of political independence, achieved by means of an epic struggle, not only for itself but for all of its American neighbours. Mine is a country that has never been at war with anyone, a country whose desire to see its neighbours freed from colonialism gave impetus to, and is inspiring, the brand-new Caribbean community, for instance. It is a country that, as we have proved time and again, will support and promote any initiative aimed at pacification in the region, as we did today in the Group of Friends of Guatemala, for example, and when we welcomed the latest agreement between Israel and the Palestinians. Venezuela, like other countries, has been shaken — in our case since 1989 — by a severe crisis. Not so much economic or political as ethical in nature, this crisis has weakened our institutions and undermined our financial system, the collapse of which cost us 16 per cent of our gross national product and has attracted the not-always-understanding attention of international opinion. This is the crisis that our Government inherited. Aware that its characteristics are atypical in our region, since its basic goal is to replace a paternalistic, oil- dependent model by an open culture based on work and self-reliance rather than on seeking the understanding of other countries, our Government is proceeding to solve our nation’s problems, which, fortunately, are no match for our diverse and solid economic resources. Venezuela is a country that has simultaneously — as if by magic — produced great thinkers, the most credible Utopians, the luckiest generals, the most visionary educators. My country, situated at the northern gate of South America, freed itself and other countries by following the dreams of Francisco de Miranda, brought to fruition by Simón Bolivár and Antonio José de Sucre, by systematic thinking and by the actions of Andrés Bello and Simón Rodríguez, among other well-known figures. Simón Bolívar was clear-sighted. In that nebulous period of history that was the year 1815, he set out, from Jamaica — in the most famous political document of this part of the world — a dazzling prophecy of what the ideal destiny of Hispanic America was to be. To this day, no one can understand how he thought it up. He wrote: “It is a grandiose idea to try to make of the entire new world a single nation, with only one link to bind and tie together all the parts to the whole.” Once independence was achieved, he foresaw that an imperfect and erratic unity, such as that of the South, could be thrown off balance by the organization of the former 13 American colonies, whose integration he already anticipated. He also foresaw the power of the hard-working, driven race that would consolidate on the American continent the formidable and admirable nation that the United States has become, with its transcendent and unique feeling of liberty, since its founders left behind all prejudices and fears. Bolívar visualized uniting the American half that was discovered, populated and moulded in all its aspects by Spain and Portugal, seeing it as one that must necessarily have its own way of life and of behaving. His vision was never based on rivalry, but rather, in keeping with his views on the destiny of this shared hemisphere, on the basis of emulation and friendship instead of strife as its driving force. The colonizing Powers contributed, and based this half of America on, all they had brought with them. They established a religion, a society reminiscent of the offspring of settlers, whose physical surroundings and indiscriminate crossbreeding gave rise to a feeling of unfettered freedom and equality. This, in turn, engendered irrevocably an equally free spirit of social democracy, which Latin America has never since lacked, not even during the long periods when political democracy was non-existent. In 1826, Bolívar, the Liberator, convened the Congress of Panama to speak there, for the first time in history, not of sacred or profane alliances of war, but of alliances for peace. The thoughts he presented gave rise to the idea of an organized international community, first of all for the Americas, through the Pan-American Union, which in turn gave rise to the present Organization of 9 American States (OAS), then to the League of Nations and finally to this Organization, which has given humanity, together with peace, all the possibilities that peace offers. This is an exceptional community, the largest in the world, since it extends from the southern border of the United States all the way south to Patagonia, uniting the greatest number of peoples and republics with similar characteristics. Here, the various languages spoken in Spain fortunately became one, revitalizing the Castilian tongue, and similarly, the Portuguese language, which in Brazil is a language as open and soft as America itself. In the northernmost point of America, the imprint of France in Canada, as well as the Hispanic minority in the United States, are living reminders of this community. In geographical terms, we are larger than other official communities, since the United States’ surface area covers 9,372,000 square kilometres and Europe’s covers 10,404,000 square kilometres. But we cover 20,000,000 square kilometres, and in these, the future of humanity is pulsing. In political and spiritual terms, we are history’s largest laboratory, at once a mystery and a promise — an absolute wonder that the future is revealing day by day. The seed of a new world, different from our expectations, is growing among us. We are not the only five hundred million human beings to be allergic to the discrimination that will confront us in the year 2000. But we are the only human group to have been born and moulded without privileges, hesitations or complexes, on an equal footing. Though this sense of equality was repressed for three centuries by pragmatic measures that were respected but not implemented, and by the extreme zeal of monks who consulted no one in imposing a single faith on this immense geographical area, it was imbued with the spaciousness of the land, the rivers, the forests, the gentle climate, the mountains and prairies, whose influence produced a different type of human character. And I would repeat that this deep feeling and sense of fundamental freedom was something that had never happened to any other group of people. Germán Arciniegas rightly said that “America was colonized by a man who was destined to a life of servitude in Europe. He became emancipated when he crossed from one shore to the other ... These wretches worked the continent with their bare hands, they were the poor, the landless, the illiterate of the popular Renaissance. Uneducated, unenlightened, their common destiny was to join together to become nations and so achieve justice.” And justice was the most absolute independence, influenced by American determinism. In his sociologist’s discourse, Bolívar said that we Americans represent a small human race. We have now become an important branch of the broader human race: the branch of possibilities and hope. Our region would not enter into conflict with any other; not even with the one with which it shares the hemisphere, and which speaks a different language and has different customs. It will not be another international agency, or form another bureaucracy, or take up more room than the enormous space of its present physical and human geography. In other words, we aspire to a beautiful Utopia, with no other pragmatism than the pride of being a Utopia with ever more solidarity; part of the universe with shared values, in search of the same destiny. If other continents fashion communities around religious, racial or geopolitical banners, it is natural that we, Latin Americans, put forth ours with our own immense, protean sense of unity. There was a time, as we followed a different cultural pattern, when we had a more orderly society and enjoyed political systems that brought us fame throughout the world. Practically all Latin American countries experienced a sort of golden age of culture and politics, marked by originality. We created literature. We forged our own laws with our own institutions. We pioneered the Law of the Sea; we produced the first system against nuclear weapons, with the Treaty of Tlatelolco. A concerted Latin American community of nations would tend to recuperate and exchange training and educational systems capable of affirming our collective pride and personality, as Europe has already done, despite the diversity of its components, out of fear of the return of thousands of years of violence. Morally, the Latin American community would be equal to the commercial and economic commitments made through ALADI, the Latin American Integration Association, as well as the Andean Pact, the Central American Common Market and MERCOSUR, all designed to form a front of solidarity 10 and a crucial link in the economic integration of the universe. A conscious Latin American community of nations would guarantee the sustainable development of the world’s most varied and richest ecological systems, and would conceive not only of the larger spaces, but also of the importance of drinking water, of mining resources, and of the most varied and richest flora and fauna on the face of the earth. Of course, we bring before the United Nations the many concerns that we have expressed about the fate of our Organization which, in its 50 years of arbitrating peace, has charted a new path for the peoples it represents. These concerns have prompted talk of reforming the Charter, in order for the Security Council, for instance, to take up and represent new geopolitical realities, and not only military might. This is the spirit in which my country, through the voice of its President, Rafael Caldera, has realistically and frankly proposed that Brazil be the permanent representative of Latin America in an enlarged Security Council. We have also spoken of the justification of agencies and powers, to make the cost of peace less burdensome; of the urgent need to adapt the Economic and Social Council to the necessities of our time, as well as the Council for Culture, Science and Technology, that is still the monopoly of industrialized centres. If a common market for technology were to be established, we would be truly keeping pace with history. In America, although less than in Africa and Asia, we too are disturbed by the growing marginalization, the social injustice, the poverty bordering on famine, the insecurity exacerbated by the trade in illicit drugs and its consequences, which we witness. We produce terrible drugs in ever greater quantities to satisfy the voracity of the consumer markets. But, at the same time, we fight this scourge with the greatest tenacity and determination. Our community has had the virtue of becoming practically a breeding ground for democracy, thanks to the steadfastness of its leaders and thinkers, as well as of the oldest but least championed regional organization. We must now see to it that democracy is purged of its dishonesty, and is cleansed. To this end, at the Hemispheric Summit in Miami, my Government proposed, with unanimous support, to put a stop to the impunity of corruption. We consider that drug trafficking and political corruption are linked together by money laundering, under the cover of electoral contributions. If democracy is to acquire a new respectability, it will be thanks to the common, concerted effort of America; an effort which this world Organization will also be called upon to make in the near future. That is because political corruption, a manifestation of the universal mafia, is not exclusive to our region and must be fought at the global level, just like illicit drug trafficking. Very shortly, a world congress against corruption will be held in China, doubtless inspired by our example. We hold out great expectations for that congress. Indeed, we are keenly interested in anything that is sponsored and advanced by this Organization. But I wanted to put before the Assembly the somewhat romantic idea of a Latin American Utopia, that it might inspire confidence in our neighbours in this hemisphere and hope in all other regions, whether on an organized basis or not. This is the spirit in which the Rio Group has endorsed the oft-repeated proposal for a Latin American Parliament. Since the first Great War there has been a dislocation in Europe, which conveyed itself through Spain and Portugal; its aesthetic sense of life and existence through Italy; its modes of thought and philosophy through France; its political models through Great Britain and its lasting technologies through Germany. A regrettable dislocation occurred between Europe and Latin America, which is truly its most kindred continent, where we live as distant cousins, and still the most vibrant and promising offshoot of this lineage. If we underscore the need to encourage this idea of our community, it is because it exists, in fact, although it is now beset with social problems that require combined treatment. It also has a legalist existence, since States such as Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela have incorporated it into their political constitutions. The greatest tragedy of Latin America is its social condition, because of the imbalances characteristic of any large society — irregularities in family patterns, deficiencies in education, the destruction of homes due to a lack of ethics — even housing, which was never one of our biggest problems, has become one, because it is linked to a sense of ethics at the family level. They are inseparably linked. 11 We could say, along with Arturo Uslar Pietri that, caught as we are between the millstones that grind the political universe, we have given more thought to building republics than to perfecting the nation that we are. In spite of all its faults, the United Nations — the Organization we aspired to and wish to maintain — has created a civilization. It is responsible for over 300 international treaties: for the consolidation of democracy; for the dedicated protection of refugees; for self- determination, freedom, independence, the dignity of life, the arts, traditions; for coexistence — even if the phantoms of intolerance reappear; for trade free of protectionism; for children, women and our indigenous populations. And this, beyond civilization, we can call the new culture of the human family. The Organization has grown and expanded since 1945, and the world with it. Its many offspring, scattered among the five continents and virtually all of them free, have led to a membership quadruple the number of the founding Members, among them Venezuela, which was represented then by its great Minister Caracciolo Parra Pérez. At that time he voiced an idea that has even greater validity today: “The peoples of the world must know each other morally and spiritually before they can manage to dispel the distrust and ignorance which keep them apart. We must build up a kind of intellectual network, above the network of the physical communications system which exists between nations, or parallel to it.” (Official Records of the United Nations Conference on International Organization, 7th plenary meeting, p. 23) This Organization’s greatest achievement has been to offer the world a span of half a century during which, despite remaining fears, it could think of a new course for harmonizing all aspects of the life of societies with the nature that shelters those societies. I congratulate the Organization and the President of the General Assembly, Mr. Diego Freitas do Amaral, in the hope that under his leadership the Organization will achieve all the success it deserves and needs. All races, all religions, all the most varied shades of humankind bring their aspirations and their claims here. This is an spacious home that has always endeavoured to live in the peace that is and must be the normal condition of life. It has been said that if health is the peace of the body, peace is the health of peoples. In that connection, the pre-Socratic philosopher wrote that in times of peace people awake to the crowing of roosters, while in times of war they waken to the clamour of arms; in peace the young bury the old, while in war the old bury the young. The delegation of Cameroon congratulates Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. We wish him well as he guides the work of this historic session, which coincides with the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization. Knowing as I do Mr. Freitas do Amaral’s distinction as an educator and a statesman, I welcome his election. Moreover, the President represents a friendly country, Portugal, whose involvement in Africa is of long standing and which shares with Cameroon a part of our history: When he alit on the coast of the Gulf of Guinea in 1472, the Portuguese Fernando Po was much impressed with the abundance of shrimp in the waters off what is now the city of Douala and named the place “Rio dos Camarões” — Shrimp River — from which Cameroon takes its name. We also convey our appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, for the way in which he carried out his responsibilities as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Finally, we pledge to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our constant support in his tireless efforts to enable the Organization to attain its noble purposes. It is of enormous significance that the present session of the General Assembly should coincide with the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization. The United Nations, which sums up and expresses the deep-felt aspiration of the peoples and nations of the world to peace, freedom and progress, has become an indispensable conclave of nations. The Organization’s universality makes it the ideal forum for governing the world order. The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary should therefore be a source of satisfaction to the entire international community. It provides an opportunity to gauge how far we have come since the beginning and to consider our views on the future of the Organization. When they created the United Nations after the Second World War, the founders affirmed their determination to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. Fortunately, for more than half a century the North — once the epicentre of most of history’s major conflicts — has been a place of peace and cooperation; and, despite the build-up of weapons of mass destruction, the rivalry between the two great ideological and military alliances did not drag international society into a third world war, which would have sealed the fate of mankind. Aware of the danger to the world posed by the arms race, the United Nations encouraged the conclusion of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and its indefinite extension; it has promoted the creation of denuclearized zones, inter alia in Africa, and the conclusion of the Convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons; and it has given decisive impetus to multilateral negotiations on disarmament. We are glad that, in its ongoing quest for peace, the Organization has been able when necessary to adapt the Charter to the realities, including by devising the notion of peace-keeping operations, which have defused many conflicts and created favourable conditions for dialogue and negotiation. By awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to United Nations peace-keeping forces on 29 September 1988, the Nobel prize committee paid tribute to the devotion and courage of the more than half a million men and women 19 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting who since 1948 have served the cause of peace all over the world. Even if in recent years peace-keeping operations have had mixed results and have been accused of consuming the lion’s share of United Nations resources to the detriment of development, it must be recognized that while the path has not always been smooth, these operations have on the whole yielded positive results. The “Agenda for Peace”, then, remains relevant, and must continue to be the foundation of United Nations peace-keeping operations. Cameroon supports the recommendations of the Working Group to strengthen these operations by defining in advance precise objectives, the timeframe for the intervention, and the resources needed for implementation. Similarly, and as we have always said, the United Nations must strengthen its cooperation with regional and subregional organizations by making available the means necessary to enable them to discharge their peace-keeping mandate. That is why we welcome cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity in the area of prevention, management and settlement of conflicts on a continent riddled with crises and conflicts of many forms and many dimensions. This applies also on the subregional level: to the role in the area of peace-keeping of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, which deserves support, as the Committee, which was created with the assistance of the Secretary-General, brings together 11 Central African countries which have decided to set up within their national armed forces units specializing in peace-keeping operations to be carried out under the auspices of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity. Cameroon trusts that the United Nations will show greater interest in this available force of more than 10,000 soldiers, which could serve as reserve forces for peace missions. Another area where United Nations action has been particularly significant is decolonization. Thanks to that action and to their own peoples’ emancipation struggles, many colonial Territories have gained independence and sovereignty; today they make up more than half of the membership of the Organization. More than any other continent, Africa is proud to have unswervingly promoted the process of its own total liberation, which was recently completed with the end of apartheid in South Africa. Here we recall with gratitude that it was under United Nations auspices that Cameroon attained sovereignty after having been first a German colony, then a Territory under League of Nations Mandate, then a United Nations Trust Territory. It is our hope that the few Territories remaining under foreign administration will freely exercise their inalienable right to self-determination, so that the United Nations objective of the complete eradication of colonialism by the year 2000 may be realized. Also to the credit of the Organization are the promotion of human rights, the ongoing development and codification of international law, and achievements in all the areas covered by the specialized agencies. The promotion and protection of human rights in general and those of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged in particular are at the centre of our concerns and those of the United Nations. The creation of the Centre for Human Rights, the convening at Vienna of the World Conference on Human Rights and the appointment of a High Commissioner for Human Rights all enable the United Nations to follow progress in the area of human rights throughout the world and to assert certain principles by which States must abide. Cameroon welcomes this, and attaches great importance to recognition of and respect for all human rights, including the right to development. As regards humanitarian assistance, our Organization has been active on all fronts where it has been needed, providing aid to victims of catastrophes and natural disasters and war. At this stage, I would like to mention and welcome action taken in the field by the United Nations through the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other organizations, such as the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the International Labour Organization (ILO). On another matter, we would like to welcome progress by the United Nations in the fight against the scourge of drugs. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme is a result of concerted efforts by the United Nations and Member States in the fight against the production, sale, demand for and traffic in, and the unlawful distribution of, drugs and psychotropic substances. Cameroon pledges and invites other States to pledge unreservedly their support for the United Nations 20 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances in order to stop the scourge of drugs. We would like to emphasize the considerable efforts exerted by the United Nations to focus the attention of the international community, in the context of world conferences, on other questions of interest that require collective action, which should be taken by the entire community of nations. These concerns have been manifested through the World Summit for Children, the Rio Conference on Environment and Development, the World Conference on Human Rights at Vienna, the International Conference on Population and Development at Cairo, the World Summit for Social Development at Copenhagen, the Cairo Conference on the Prevention of Crime, and Fourth World Conference on Women at Beijing. On the question of women, it is highly desirable that all States immediately follow up on the decisions and recommendations of the Beijing Conference. But these successes of our Organization that I have just mentioned may not have met the expectations of all peoples. First, in the area of international peace and security, the Organization has not been able to prevent the spread of sources of tension and conflicts throughout the world. Until recently, it has been practically powerless in the face of the tragedies of the former Yugoslavia, Somalia and Rwanda. In the economic arena, the Organization, notwithstanding the declaration of four United Nations decades, has not succeeded in adopting declarations, programmes of actions and other strategies to bring about progress and economic and social development in developing countries. The proof is that conditions in these countries are still unfavourable, and, in order to experience growth once again, they must engage in policies of structural adjustment, the social burden of which has been a source of major concern to their Governments. This is true also of the high price they must pay to join the mainstream of world trade in order to avoid further marginalization. Development is primarily the responsibility of States and the peoples concerned. Cameroon nevertheless believes that the United Nations should, because of its universality and in the best interest of the international community as a whole, help to ensure global solidarity and interdependence with a view to promoting development for all. This means that we must stop inveighing against Africa in uniformly pessimistic, not to say doomsday, tones. This style is all too familiar and suggests that our continent is, in the history of the world, nothing but a passive onlooker. But who, in all seriousness, can place at the sidelines of world events an entire continent, with 700 million inhabitants today — 800 million in the year 2,000 — and with immense natural, human, cultural and spiritual wealth? In this connection, the Holy Father, speaking of Africa, on the occasion of his recent second visit to Cameroon, appealed in his post-synod apostolic exhortation for avoidance of any blanket condemnations of an entire population, an entire nation or, still worse, an entire continent. In spite of the serious difficulties that it must overcome, Africa is determined to shoulder responsibility for its future. The sweeping changes which it is experiencing today are nothing but the forerunners of a nascent order whose purpose will be to integrate our continent into the world of the third millennium. This process of transformation is already yielding fruit in most of our countries. As regards Cameroon, I would like in this connection, to emphasize our irreversible pursuit of the process of democratization begun by Presidency Paul Biya at the very moment he assumed power in 1982. Between now and the end of this year, there will be significant progress in this process with the adoption of a new Constitution allowing for greater democratic participation by the citizens of Cameroon in the management of their own affairs, and a better balance among the various powers of Government. I would like to mention the impact our measures of recovery and economic liberalization have had on various sectors of activity. Cameroon is enjoying self-sufficiency in food, and is beginning to enjoy growth again. Inflation has been halted and macroeconomic balance in major areas has been re-established. In a word, there are signs of life in economic activity. Strengthened by the credibility confirmed — had that really been needed — by the recent signing of the agreement with the International Monetary Fund, my country is widening its action for the acceleration of its economic recovery. Our Organization is confronted with a sudden and unexpected acceleration of history. Never has there been such an acute sense of upheaval. The same questions keep cropping up everywhere: Will the world in the future be meaningless? What will the world order be like in the future? Will the Organization have a hand in this new 21 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting order? And, finally, will it have the ability to be the melting pot for this? But, when all is said and done, the end of the cold war has brought fair weather. However, it is clear that, 50 years after its creation, the Organization needs to turn over a new leaf. That being so, might it not be highly desirable for it to re-think its role, its tasks, its functions, with a view not just to adapting to this new context, but to responding better to the ever- increasing and ever-more-insistent aspirations of the peoples to peace and well-being? In any case, this is the desire of Cameroon. These are the responsibilities we would like the Organization to shoulder in order to ensure a better world and a better future for the generation of the next millennium. In this connection, the manner in which the United Nations discharges its responsibilities, or rather the success of United Nations missions, will depend on the real collective political will of its Member States. For its part, Cameroon feels that the current thinking on the restructuring of the Security Council augurs well for the revitalization of the Organization. The same is true of the successful outcome of peace-keeping efforts made possible by United Nations action and the concerted action of the international community in Cambodia, Central America, Angola, Haiti, Mozambique and Eritrea. On the same lines, the new diplomatic deals that are evolving in the former Yugoslavia and the Middle East are undeniably very encouraging developments. In the final analysis, then, there is no reason not to believe that in the near future the peoples of regions where conflicts are continuing will, like so many others, have their rendezvous with peace. In all of these cases, Cameroon has the feeling that a lasting solution will have to come through a meeting of the political wills of the chief protagonists and the collective will of the international community. In spite of the difficulties that have impeded action in the areas both of peace-keeping and of economic and social development, the balance sheet of the Organization — though certainly uneven — is not as negative as some would have us believe. The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations gives the international community an ideal opportunity to consider the ways and means available to our Organization to carry out the collective work of ensuring peace, security and prosperity for all. This anniversary must also be taken as an opportunity for renewal, for highlighting and praising the wealth of universality in the diversity in our Organization. This is an opportunity to renew our pledge and commitment to the purposes and ideals of the Charter. This pledge and this commitment must be translated into a strengthening of our determination and our ability to act collectively so that, as was the wish of the founding fathers, we can save future generations from anguish, fear, poverty, suffering and all sorts of uncertainty, and so that we may finally move forward along the path of transforming the tools of war into the tools of peace. Cameroon, for its part, is prepared to contribute. There is nothing new in the newspapers these days: “Ethnic tensions growing in various parts of the world”; “Violence claims a three-year-old victim”; “Concerns increase over new outbreaks of dengue fever”; “Fighting continues in the Baltic”; “Young man commits suicide after killing his parents, his brother and eight other people”; and “Children of the third world run the risk of contracting the diseases of the Western world”. Is this peace? Is this the new world? Is this the new order to which we committed ourselves 50 years ago? Half a century after the end of that devastating world war are nations really united? Until a short while ago many of us believed that we had finally distanced ourselves from the danger of world war and that some long-standing confrontations were beginning to be resolved through dialogue and negotiation. However, the threats of a world cataclysm have grown over decades of regional and local conflicts, stirred up by a wide range of motives involving 24 geopolitical, economic and trading disputes as well as ethnic and religious conflicts. Europe, the veteran of two world wars, which thought it was protected by a number of post-war agreements, is now the arena for a number of confrontations in all corners of that continent. In the Balkans, concentration camps, which we believed had died with Hitler, have once again made an appearance. Terrorism, originally fomented by certain powerful developed countries, has now turned against those very countries with a lash like the tail of the serpent and now, in order to combat that scourge, they are spending the same millions they had invested earlier in perpetrating it. Drug trafficking is also terrorizing the major cities, but what promotes that scourge is not the cultivation of certain types of vegetation in the underdeveloped world, but tolerance of drug consumption and covert protection for its production and trade in order to make a profit in those very cities. Extremism, xenophobia, racism and discrimination on the basis of national origin, creed or gender are proliferating once again, together with the spectre of fascism, which seems to have arisen from the tomb. Globalization, an all-inclusive term conceived in the interests of the major transnational corporations, is now devouring national entities, sovereignty and independence beyond any limit or reason, bringing in its wake a global invasion of destitution, population growth, mass migration and environmental degradation, which cannot be avoided by even the most powerful of this world. At the same time, ideological differences, the imposition of measures, isolation and selfish actions of all kinds continue to torpedo our new efforts to integrate into associations, such as the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the recently established Association of Caribbean States (ACS). An exclusive kind of panamericanism in this hemisphere is sabotaging the aspirations of the community of Ibero-American and Caribbean nations to strengthen their forums of regional concerted actions and to seek consensus to meet their common needs. The country that has arrogated to itself supreme leadership in this area as a manifest destiny has, as it did two centuries ago, been conspiring to abort any regional or international association of peoples that does not fit in with its narrow national interests. Asia and Africa, which achieved decolonization, are now laboratories in which societies with age-old cultures and a strong tribal heritage are being afflicted with new liberal and Western models that are totally alien to their national characteristics. Fifty years on, despite all its efforts, the United Nations has not been able to eliminate hunger, poverty, the millions of children dying of diseases that are curable and entire peoples who are longing for a simple glass of drinking water. The virtual reality in which we are told we live today cannot conceal the nuclear weapons which, as has been asserted, may destroy the planet three times over, as if once were not enough. Nor will the illusion of the future created in the opulent cities so rich in show- windows and neon lights save the world from the waste that is being emptied into the oceans, the contamination of the atmosphere, and the destruction of ecosystems and species, including the human race. Such news is rarely seen on television in the civilized countries where we are constantly told about marvellous detergents; but how can one cleanse the world of the horrors of war and destitution with such detergents? Light and shadow, but above all more shadow than light, seems to be the mood of this General Assembly on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. In preparing itself, Cuba has noted with concern the often graceless and vulgar way in which highly developed countries are trying to take advantage of this opportunity to define new economic, legal and political bases for the world. These bases run counter to the true objectives of peace, development, equality and justice, as well as of the preservation and needed restoration of the cardinal principles of the Charter. In the complex debates of the last few months many tributes have been paid to the argument of limited sovereignty, humanitarian intervention and preventive diplomacy, all set forth in “An Agenda for Peace” in the implementation of which the United Nations is wasting two thirds of its budget. Those discussions have not been free from brushes with fashionable neo-liberal ideas that equate development with assistance and set up chains of conditionalities disguised as the same good intentions with which the road to hell is paved. 25 From the bipolar world of the East-West conflict we have moved to the unipolarism of the most powerful, and only the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and the Group of 77 have managed to survive, although some have tried to do away with them, silence them or reeducate them, as if the problems of the third world were dependent solely on disputes between the great Powers and their post-war allies. To the calls by the vast majority of the world for the preservation of sovereign equality, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of States, which are the bases of international law, we have been given answers that seek to destroy those principles for the benefit of a few. Whenever reason raises its head, an attempt is made to trample on the third world’s right to development by imposing mechanisms in which the factor of domination is inherent, something this Organization was established precisely to combat. All the efforts and time we have spent here to establish a new, more just and more equitable economic order have been doomed to failure by the intransigence of the rich, which has made the gap between rich and poor a gulf that is ever-more unspannable. A great wave of privatization has done away with national structures and is jeopardizing the important but fragile social achievements of mankind in its development. Streets, parks, cities and even prisons are being privatized, and under this influence it would appear that we are now approaching the privatization of law and of world power, and the United Nations itself is unable to escape from this, for some believe that the bulk of Member States have little or nothing to say in deciding their own destinies. Let us agree on this: the world has changed. We can repeat it. It is true. But how has it changed? Notwithstanding the impressive achievements of the human race we are forced to live at the same time with unspeakable suffering that mocks all material and spiritual progress in which we might feel some pride as we approach the new century. The “civilizatory” crisis began in the richest and most powerful part of the planet and is now spreading to international agencies and into this lofty arena. The countries of the South cannot desire or continue to support the notion that the North should constantly impose conditions upon it. The countries of the North must listen to our views as well as alter their own patterns of development. Although it is fashionable to include the issue of human development in the agendas of international discussions, it has been relegated to second place by post- modern technocracies. There are those who celebrate the fall of the Berlin Wall and the breakdown of the European socialist world without realizing that no new world has yet been constructed to replace them and that, on the contrary, many other new walls are growing up around us. From the centres of world power refined and subtle forms of a new colonization are being imposed as part of national policies and national-security strategies — in other words, of extraterritorial domination. Cuba knows this by heart. The ridiculous charitable gestures, the crumbs fallen from the table, the alms, all go hand in hand with the cultural and ideological invasion that corrodes peoples from within and neutralizes them as actors on history’s stage. The new ark of the post-modern saviours is predestined to divide humanity into the auto-elect and the excluded. Solidarity, the symbol of love among human beings and the essential attribute of mankind’s salvation in every age, is now an endangered species. Like the model the leadership is seeking to erect on the basis of brutal selfishness, the third world seems condemned to become bogged down in debates on confrontation and cooperation and to abandon the best of the human spirit, which is precisely this solidarity. And this very Organization which combated colonialism and apartheid with such solidarity has also been changed into a kind of supranational mechanism far removed from its intergovernmental design. Is there solidarity in the secret contacts and covert understandings that precede the decisions taken by the Organization, which is manipulated in the interests of certain Powers? Can we regard as solidarity the further invasions to eradicate famine, safeguard peace, restore democracy and support so-called good governments? 26 Can there be solidarity in a Security Council without transparency and anti-democratic in its workings, which no longer fulfils the principles of the Charter or exceeds them and refuses to abolish the veto power and renounce permanent membership? What kind of solidarity do we mean when that body, the Security Council, resists even the alternative of sharing its obsolete power fairly with other nations that better represent this world? In international law we must in no way accept as valid the life-style of those who proclaim as a national philosophy that they have no friends or interests — unless we wish to bring on mass suicide for the planet. And if we are to avoid suicide, we must definitively support the conclusion of treaties that will completely ban atomic weapons, their technological monopoly and peaceful and simulated explosions and declare a total moratorium on testing until the practice is completely banned. Such treaties must be acceded to by all nuclear Powers without any exception. For the third consecutive year I have come here mandated by Cuba to address this Assembly and to denounce what has already been denounced, to condemn what has already been condemned, and to reiterate the call of the overwhelming majority of the community of nations. On the very threshold of the twenty-first century the criminal economic, trade and financial blockade which the United States has imposed against my country for 36 years continues. We have survived the attempt to eliminate us, which has been mocked by the tenacious resistance of my people. After years of crisis, the Cuban economy experienced a 7 per cent growth in the past year while the budget deficit was reduced by almost half. Inflation, measured by the informal exchange market, was reduced by more than 80 per cent, and at the end of the first half of 1995 the economy had grown by 2 per cent. Significant economic measures made those results possible, and yet the traditional attention our Government gives to education, health, employment and social security has never diminished. All this has been possible because since 1959 we have zealously and resolutely defended the commitment made to the fathers of our nation to keep it free and sovereign, 90 miles distant from that great Power that has always regarded us as part of its backyard, as some sort of annex to its own territory. It has been possible because in this world obsessed to its very soul with buying and selling — while of course deriving profit from the process — we have maintained and demonstrated that one can live with an ethics based on principles, on national unity, on justice, on respect for human dignity, equity, morality and loyalty, and no one — absolutely no one — has the right to question this. It has also been possible because we have kept faith with the Charter that we signed 50 years ago, with its commitment to respect and require respect for our sovereignty, our national independence and our self- determination, while not allowing interference of any kind in our internal affairs. There is more. These results have been possible because, free from the commitments of the past, and with the experience of having depended economically on other countries, we have with great sacrifice undertaken the task of building our economic independence. It would be ungrateful of me if, in speaking of the incredible achievements of the Cuban people, I made no reference to the millions who have stood by us during these difficult years: the dozens of countries and Governments that did not break off relations with Cuba, those that strengthened their relations and those that found the courage to enter into such relations for the first time in the face of unspeakable pressure and threats. It is precisely now, when trade and foreign investment are beginning to energize the Cuban economy, that a campaign has been launched in the United States Congress to approve a bill that would mock and run counter to the wishes of the majority of nations and harm free trade and all civilized forms of relations between peoples and Governments. Certain extremist sectors in this country are trying to delay a lasting solution to the conflict between these two countries for many years and to abort the migration agreements signed by both Governments last year. Only two days ago the House of Representatives took the first step towards this crime in approving that bill which, among other absurdities, proposes an 27 international blockade against Cuba, which is really directed against the whole of humanity. This is no surprise to us because, apart from gestures from the many friends that we have in this great nation, those who have directed its destiny over the last 36 years have brought us nothing good. However, we trust that there are still honest people who, even without being friends of the Cuban Government, may have the basic common sense to know which side is in the right. There is also time to stay the hands of those in the Senate and the Executive Branch who wish to stab in the back the future of any attempt at a rapprochement between Cuba and the United States and add new tensions to international relations that are already difficult. Faced with a world that accepts diversity and differences, that does not turn to us with aggression or isolate or discriminate against us, this North American position is automatically blocked in time and in existence, and is isolated in its attitude towards Cuba in this Assembly. My country does not question anybody’s right to the type of government they desire. We urge no one to imitate our model. But neither can we accept that anyone should impose a different one on us. We affirm this in the strong belief that the democratic, economic and social justice process initiated in Cuba in 1959 has followed an honest path; it has demonstrated its viability, its strength and its capacity to face the challenges of these times and respond to them. We firmly believe in the authenticity and the popular support underpinning our revolution and our socialism — a socialism as Cuban as our palm trees. We defend our right to life and to our own voice, because in the world of pluralism that we aspire to, plurality and diversity among nations must be respected. In this Assembly there are documents circulating that prove what I say, as well as vulgar threats and attempts at blackmail against those who are exercising such freedoms, not only because they are ethical in taking the right side in a matter of international interest, but because they have links with Havana. Diplomacy and politics these days cannot be practised by threatening families that wish to be reunited, or businessmen, members of Congress or politicians who have to resort to bodyguards for their own protection. What can we expect the next century to offer us if this trial imposed on Cuba by a world Power succeeds? We need something more than the reiteration of the condemnation of the blockade in this Assembly. Cuba is fully entitled to call for action that would put an end to this madness, because any Member State may be the next victim in the future. It is high time now to put an end to a conflict which had its origins more than two centuries ago — before socialism emerged, and long before the East-West conflict and the triumph of the Cuban revolution. Cuba has managed to succeed thanks to solidarity. In its name, we hope that the issue of human rights may cease to be used as political manoeuvring in a way that stains the honour of many decent countries. Alongside the lying and pathetic chronicles of human rights violations in Cuba, the world must recognize that there has been no lack of love, no lack of sacrifice in the salvation of millions of women and children who, because our trade was blockaded, did not have enough food to eat. The often heroic and painful efforts to secure medicine for the sick, insulin for diabetics, aminofilin for asthmatics and pacemakers for those with heart conditions must be recognized and acknowledged, because the providers of those medicines and the experts concerned were warned off, boycotted or proscribed by the Treasury Department of the United States. The world must know that the right to life is deeply jeopardized in Cuba, and that my country is living, working, loving and every day renewing its hopes of a better world in spite of that. If truth were better valued on the market, the world would correctly identify the most striking victims of the human rights violations in Cuba: the vulgar servants of a foreign Power from which they receive encouragement and resources to conspire against the very land in which they were born to promote the annexationist aspirations of our powerful neighbour. Moreover, honest people throughout the world can discern among the members of the Cuban community in this country a growing majority who have begun to defend the sovereignty of Cuba, to claim the rights that have also been denied them and works with all our support and all our respect to normalize relations with their homeland. 28 The world cannot be deceived all the time, least of all the noble and hard-working people of the United States, who daily call out for solidarity with Cuba. Without the blockade, Cuba would more clearly demonstrate its unsuspected reserves of talent and energy and the material and spiritual quality of our lives would be improved. That would enable us to give our modest support much more freely to the cultural and scientific advancement of all mankind and of the United States as well. It is incredible that in the so-called land of the free, tourists and businessmen are able to travel and invest freely all around the world except to one destination and in one market, which is increasingly attractive and is located only 90 miles from its own shores. The people of the United States, whose economy, politics, dignity, laws and human rights have also been profoundly damaged, must prevent this seed sown for more than 30 years from becoming a genuine source of national shame, as was its war against Viet Nam. Let it be clearly understood: Cuba desires normal relations with the United States, provided that a natural feeling of good-neighbourliness, respect and equality prevails between the two countries. But Cuba will never give way to threats and will survive at all costs whatever happens, because it is capable of escaping from crises, but cannot shake off the dishonour of living on its knees. It will not do that. Cuba will continue with its forward movement to change and develop. Our economy, although subject to the blockade, will grow and will provide for and meet the most pressing needs of our people. The powerful infrastructure that we have built up over three decades with what some have called the subsidy that Cuba has wasted well befits a people whose high level of education and culture and a stable land of peace and order. All of this is sustained by the broadest popular consultation and consent and a democratic consensus enjoyed by few Governments. The changes which Cuba has made and will continue to make in its own way apply not only to our economy, but to our political system, civil society and institutions, in order to make our democracy increasingly genuine and participative. These changes fall squarely within our sovereign prerogative. They have not been made to please anyone outside, especially those who have so altered themselves as to be unrecognizable. Day by day, minute by minute, Cuba is striving to improve itself, to adapt and survive in this global jungle, where more than ever before survival of the fittest is the rule. The lion may be able to devour the deer, but he has a hard time swallowing the hedgehog. For this reason, the United Nations must also change and become more democratic, to become the genuine vehicle for development and peace which humanity needs if it is to survive. It must become a forum for dialogue and concord where the principle of the sovereign equality of States is the keystone and foundation. Many have spoken, and will continue to speak this year, of celebrating the merits and work of the United Nations, which no one can deny. On behalf of my country, I prefer today to commemorate rather than celebrate and to call on this Assembly, 50 years after its founding, to veto irrationality and vote unanimously for the future of mankind. It is a pleasure for me to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. Your unanimous election to this lofty post is a tribute paid by the international community to your country and to you personally. It also bespeaks recognition of your abilities and skills. To your predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, the president of the forty-ninth session, who demonstrated great dedication and a high level of efficiency, we should like to extend our deep appreciation for his efforts and skill. On this occasion, I cannot fail to express my delegation’s appreciation to the Secretary-General of our Organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts to enhance the United Nations and increase its effectiveness. Through his “Supplement to An Agenda for Peace'”, he has demonstrated once again high initiative in seeking to enable the United Nations to rise to the challenges of today’s highly complex world. This session of the General Assembly convenes on an important occasion. In a few days, celebrations will commence to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations with the aim of sparing humanity the repetition of the suffering it had endured as a result of two world wars. This historical occasion, which marks the end of the post-war era with all its ramifications, affords us an opportunity to take stock, while we celebrate, of the Organization’s progress over the past five decades, to evaluate its performance, and to seek the ways and means whereby it could overcome the negatives that in the past prevented it from achieving its goals. In so doing, we should put forward plans and programmes of action that would revitalize the United Nations and enable it to face up to the challenges of the future and to establish a better world that would be consonant with principles of the Charter and the common values and aspirations of all nations. Last year, the world witnessed certain encouraging developments. The efforts deployed to promote international cooperation in the interests of economic and social development, to reduce environmental degradation and to combat the phenomena of poverty, terrorism and drugs continued apace. The dispute in Mozambique was settled by peaceful means and peace in Central America has been consolidated. All these developments and tendencies give cause for hope. However, we should not allow ourselves to be overly elated. Civil wars and regional conflicts continue to wreak havoc and to undermine security and stability in many parts of the world. In the post-cold-war world there are many other challenges, which I shall address presently. Before I do so, however, I seek your indulgence in allowing me to turn to another question that is not far-removed from the present international situation and the way small countries have come to be treated especially when they adopt independent policies and positions. I refer here to the dispute between my country and France, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America over the Pan Am flight 103 incident, and the crash of the French UTA aircraft. This dispute would not have continued for such a long time had the right approach been adopted and had there been any acceptance of the call for dialogue and negotiation in seeking to settle the dispute. As you know, over several years, and in complete secrecy, certain bodies that are claimed to be independent investigated the two incidents. Suddenly and without the presentation of any evidence, Britain and the United States of America surprised the world by declaring that the Pan Am flight 103 incident was the work of two Libyans nationals. At the same time, France declared that circumstantial evidence pointed at the involvement of several Libyans in the attack against UTA flight 772. Although those who made the allegations did not corroborate them by any document, testimony or fact, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, upon being notified of the allegations, announced that it was ready to cooperate in uncovering the facts surrounding the two incidents. I do not see any need to repeat the measures we have taken in 12 this regard, since I have enumerated them at the past two sessions of this Assembly. Moreover, we have informed all Member States of our positions and initiatives, in this respect, in official documents that have been circulated to them. However, I should like to remind, briefly, that my country has condemned terrorism in all its forms, and has declared its commitment to the implementation of any action decided upon by the international community to combat terrorism. My country has also cooperated with the Government of the United Kingdom. British officials have themselves voiced satisfaction with Libya’s response. Contacts have been initiated and are continuing with the French authorities with a view to determining the circumstances of the crash of the French aircraft. My country has spared no effort in searching for a feasible course of action with regard to the two individuals who have been suspected of having something to do with the incident of the American plane. Libyan judicial authorities started to investigate this case but had to suspend the investigation because of the refusal of both the United States and British authorities to submit any documents or papers in their possession. Despite the fact that the issue of the trial of the two suspects is determined by the 1971 Montreal Convention, which gives Libya the right to try them, the refusal by Britain and the United States to abide by this Convention, to which they are both parties, prompted Libya to seek other solutions to the issue of the trial. In this respect, Libya has submitted several proposals, including one that calls for resorting to the International Court of Justice, or trying the two suspects before a court whose venue should be agreed upon by the parties concerned. Although the United States and British Governments have both announced that their allegations have been built on specific facts and reliable information, the facts that have come to light over the past three years refute such assertions. In addition to the statement by the Palestinian national, Yusuf Sha’aban, before a Lebanese court, there are the statements of the manager of a Swiss electronics company which undermine the most important basis for accusing the two Libyan nationals. The information published in Tracking the Octopus, a recent work of investigative journalism, points an accusing finger at other quarters. Despite all this, Libya continued to cooperate in seeking to reveal all the facts surrounding the Pan Am flight 103 incident. Proceeding from this, Libya accepted the proposal of the League of Arab States, which calls for trying the two suspected individuals by Scottish judges, under Scottish law, at the seat of the International Court of Justice at the Hague. The many secrets and mysterious dimensions of the Lockerbie incident which have been uncovered have now been brought into sharp focus by, inter alia, the television documentary “The Maltese Double-Cross”, William Chasey’s book The Lockerbie Cover-Up and Geoff Simmons’ book “Libya: The Struggle for Survival”. In addition, several articles on this question have appeared in various newspapers, including the article published by The Guardian of London on 29 June 1995. All these documentary revelations by the media refute the accusations levelled at the two Libyans, and provide evidence that the incident was planned by professional agencies to cover up certain suspect activities. Despite all this, Libya, which, from the very beginning, declared that it is most interested in unearthing the truth regarding this incident, has not retreated from its declared position, namely that it has no objection whatsoever to the trial of its two suspected nationals before a court of law. Libya’s overriding concern in all this is to ensure that its two nationals get a just, fair and neutral trial, that would be free from any emotional or media influences and which would be conducted in accordance with the rules of international law which Libya has always upheld and adhered to. The International Court of Justice can testify to our adherence to and respect for international law, as has been proven in three cases, the latest being the judgment by the Court in relation to the territorial dispute between the Jamahiriya and Chad. Although the judgment was against our position, Libya, out of respect for international law, accepted the ruling of the Court and implemented it in a constructive manner. This confirms Libya’s respect for international legality, to which one of the big Powers pays lip service all the time, but does not apply. It even refuses to resort to the International Court of Justice because this big Power believes in the law of force not the force of law. It is evident that the Governments of the United States and Britain are not keen on revealing the truth about the perpetrators of the tragic Lockerbie incident. It has become abundantly clear that involving Libya in this incident was a premeditated act that aimed at achieving certain objectives. Otherwise, why should the two Governments object to the trial of the two suspected individuals before the judiciary of a third country or before the International Court of Justice when this has been acceptable to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and has been supported by most members of the international community, as represented by their regional organizations: the League of Arab States, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the Organization of African Unity, 13 and the Non-Aligned Movement? What prevents the two Governments from accepting the path of dialogue and negotiation as stipulated by the Charter of the United Nations? Why is the Security Council being prevented from responding to repeated calls and appeals by over two thirds of the membership of the United Nations on whose behalf the Security Council is supposed to act? And why the double standards when it comes to dealing with issues of international legality? Furthermore, how can a certain major Power explain the fact that while it claims to be keen on preserving this legality, its record shows that it has the least regard for the will of the international community, a fact that is attested to by that major Power’s continued support of a certain State and protection of that State from punishment for its refusal to implement international resolutions which now total 143, including dozens that have been adopted by the Security Council? The rejection by the two Governments, of the United States and Britain, of all Libyan proposals and of all regional initiatives proves that they want this crisis to continue for as long as possible. Evidence of this can be found in the fact that the more Libya’s positions are welcomed and the more widespread becomes the call for lifting the sanctions imposed on the Libyan people, the more the two Governments hasten to oppose such positions under the false pretext of Libya’s non-response to the resolutions of the Council, thus keeping the Libyan people hostage to unjustified sanctions. As if these countries are not content with the difficulties and pains suffered by the Libyan people at the hands of colonialists and fascists — people who fought on its territory, a war that killed and displaced hundreds of thousands of its people, and planted in their farms and under their homes millions of mines that still explode and injure innocent Libyans. These mines also hinder Libya’s efforts to combat desertification, protect the environment, and expand economic and social development. It even seems that these countries are not content with the suffering of the Libyan people so far, including the acts of terrorism to which the Libyan people have been subjected such as the deliberate downing of a Libyan civilian plane by Israeli military aircraft in 1973, which killed all its 108 passengers. Also, in 1986, hundreds of American fighters bombed Libyan cities while their residents were asleep. This aggression claimed the lives of many people and resulted in heavy material damage. Later, it was proved that the pretext used by the United States of America for this act of aggression was false and baseless. The deep desire to punish the Libyan people also became clear when these countries insisted on depriving its civilian aircraft of necessary spare parts. In 1992, this led to the crash of one of those aircraft and the death of all its 157 passengers. All this begs the question: is it a desire to discover the truth, or is it a desire, a thirst to wreak revenge on Libya because of the defeat of the United States fleet in 1805? So, where is the truth? Is it the thirst for revenge, a vendetta waged by a major Power against a small country, a vendetta that goes back 150 years? The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya has sought a speedy and just solution to the dispute with France, Britain and the United States of America. All Libya asked was that the problem should be settled in accordance with the principles of the United Nations and the rules of international law. For this purpose, we have knocked on many doors, but our efforts, and those of others, to solve the dispute and to lift the sanctions have faced continued rejection. Furthermore, there are hints that other measures may be adopted to tighten the sanctions against us under the pretext that Libya has not responded to the demands of the Security Council. This is not true. It merely represents manipulation and trickery with regard to the interpretation of those resolutions. Now that I have reviewed this crisis for the fourth time before the General Assembly and in order to avoid any further ramifications, we believe it is now incumbent upon this august assembly to intervene and to act in accordance with the powers entrusted to it by the Charter in order to get the three countries to respond to the repeated calls for an urgent and peaceful solution to this problem, in accordance with Chapter VI of the Charter of the United Nations. This assembly should also urge the Security Council to reconsider its resolutions in order to lift the sanctions. Resorting to sanctions is not the proper way to solve differences between States, especially when such sanctions are unjustifiably imposed, as is the case with the sanctions imposed against the Libyan people. These sanctions have led to the freezing of Libya’s assets, and prevented it from getting spare parts, including the parts needed for power plants and desalination machines. This in turn has hampered the Libyan people’s efforts with regard to development, and paralysed the activities of most economic sectors. The more serious aspect of the effects of these sanctions is the enormity of the material and human losses which I need not review here in detail, since we have detailed them in several official documents, the latest of which is United Nations document S/1995/474 dated 12 June 1995. Suffice it to mention here that the number of people injured in road accidents has reached 12,700 of whom 1,870 have died of their injuries while others continue to suffer from permanent injuries. Material damage has exceeded ten billion dollars. Moreover, the adverse effects of the sanctions have not 14 been limited to the Libyan people. They have affected neighbouring countries and all the peoples of the region. Here, I must repeat that the longer these sanctions continue, the more people will die and the greater the suffering and the damage. There is no reason whatsoever for remaining silent on the subject of injustice and the continuation of this wrong. For the Assembly’s information a road accident which took place two days ago on the road from Tripoli to Tunis resulted in the death of three members of a Maltese delegation. As I have previously stated, the international political situation has witnessed new positive developments which my country welcomes. However, we must recognize that numerous challenges still face peace in the world and that, consequently, the international community is called upon to mobilize all its capabilities in facing up to those challenges. The continued deterioration of the situation in Somalia and the intensification of tensions in that country require more regional efforts to persuade Somali leaders to enter into additional political commitments and to work for the restoration of peace and permanent stability to their country. Seeking to make the world more secure and more stable requires supporting national reconciliation efforts in Afghanistan, promoting a satisfactory solution to the problem of Cyprus, solving the problems in Rwanda and Burundi and settling the disputes in Angola and Liberia. It also requires putting an end to the repeated setbacks to peace efforts in the Balkans, as well as sparing the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and other peoples of the former Yugoslavia, more pain and suffering. In order to establish permanent stability in the Gulf region, the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq must be respected, and all interference in its internal affairs must cease. Furthermore, the sanctions from which the Iraqi people have been suffering should be lifted. In the context of any effort to consolidate world peace, serious action must be taken to resolve the problems of the Middle East. It is unacceptable that the Palestinian people should continue to be displaced from their land, while those who stay on that land are brutally treated. The overwhelming majority of the international community, which has continued to support the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people over the past four decades, should take firm action to put an end to the Israeli practices against the Palestinians and the other inhabitants of the occupied Arab territories in the Golan and southern Lebanon. The Israelis must be deterred, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, from their continued defiance of the will of the international community. The incontrovertible truth is that occupation and expansion are the real aim of the Israelis. Their former and present positions and practices indicate that they do not want a just and comprehensive peace. Their joining the so-called peace process is a mere smoke-screen, a mask they hide behind in order to perpetrate further occupation and enhance their superiority. A just, comprehensive and lasting solution to the problems of the Middle East cannot be achieved by ceding the administration of local affairs in Gaza and Jericho, but rather by the liberation of all occupied Arab territories and the full enforcement of all the rights of the Palestinian people — first and foremost being their return to their homeland, self-determination, and the establishment of their own independent state in Palestine, with Al-Quds as its capital, a state where Arabs and Jews alike would live together. There is no alternative to this solution. The solutions being put forward these days, regardless of all the talk about how desirable their results would be, will not lead to the results aspired to by the Palestinians, simply because those solutions are unrealistic and ignore the facts of history. The continued existence of nuclear weapons and the increased stockpiling of these and other weapons of mass destruction are among the principal concerns of the international community. When the first review Conference of the States parties to the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) was held in the first half of this year, it was hoped that that Conference would lead to satisfactory results. However, what actually happened was that certain nuclear Powers brought to bear unprecedented pressures that made it possible for the NPT to be extended indefinitely. My country declared its opposition to this extension, and we remain convinced that extending the Treaty in that manner would never serve the objective of nuclear-weapon disarmament. The NPT has not achieved universality, and its many shortcomings have not been properly addressed. In our view, ridding the world of nuclear terror will not be achieved through gains obtained by manoeuvres and unconventional measures, but rather through serious measures, which must be taken by the nuclear States. In this context, the procurement of nuclear materials must be ended, and nuclear States must commit themselves to a deadline for the complete elimination of all nuclear weapons. These States should put an end to nuclear tests and conclude, at the earliest possible time, a comprehensive test-ban treaty. Furthermore, the nuclear 15 States should demonstrate the political will required to conclude an effective treaty guaranteeing the security and safety of non-nuclear States. Another situation that requires speedy corrective action involves the unjustified restriction on the transfer to non-nuclear States of nuclear technology for peaceful purposes. Above all, measures should be taken to guarantee the universality of the NPT. My country attaches the greatest importance to this issue, because the region to which we belong suffers from a security imbalance, owing to the Israelis’ tremendous nuclear capability — they have more than 200 nuclear warheads and nuclear facilities that are not subjected to international inspection. This represents a threat to the security and safety of the peoples of the region. No one should keep silent about a situation of this kind or accept the extension of the NPT as long as such a situation continues. If the indefinite extension of the NPT is to be with the complete support of all, international action must be taken to meet all these widely expressed requirements and to guarantee accession by all to the Treaty, including, in particular, the Israelis, who must agree to subject their nuclear facilities to the safeguards regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency, as well as fixing a timetable for the dismantling and destruction of their nuclear stockpiles. In reviewing the international economic situation, it becomes clear that the economic development of most developing countries, especially in Africa, is still sluggish and subject to fluctuations and imbalances. The present indicators give the impression that this situation is likely to deteriorate further unless effective measures are taken to reverse it. The fact is that the economic difficulties of the developing countries are not the result of a lack of legislation or plans. For example, Africa has adopted plans and strategies to promote development and has concluded a treaty that aims at economic integration. However, the problem lies in the unjust criteria still prevalent in international economic relations. These require realistic and responsible solutions without the imposition of politically motivated conditions. The conferences that have been held over the past few years have created new opportunities to improve the prevailing economic and social situation. We hope that the consensus agreements emanating from those conferences will generate the necessary political will for the implementation of the resolutions taken by those and other international forums, including the commitments announced during the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. What is more urgent is the need to take immediate action to address the external causes of economic deterioration in developing countries, namely the increasing tendency towards protectionism, declining terms of trade, shrinking official development assistance and restrictions on the transfer of technology. In addition, it is necessary to deal with unjust practices in international economic relations such as coercive economic measures, including boycotts, the freezing of assets, the confiscation of property and the prohibition of the export of spare parts, which has been applied by certain developed countries against a number of developing countries, including my own. Such measures not only impede development and run counter to the Charter of the United Nations, to the resolutions of the General Assembly and to the orientation towards the establishment of a system of international economic relations based on justice and fairness, but also constitute a violation of the norms of international law. The Western countries that manufacture the needed spare parts, medical supplies and water-desalination and power-generating equipment, by taking such coercive measures, violate their commitments under free-trade agreements. This should serve as a warning to whoever deals with those countries, because there is no guarantee that such measures will not be applied to them as well. Last year and the year before, wide-ranging discussions were held on the restructuring of the United Nations. These discussions have shown that there is a need to review and change the procedures and methods of work of the Security Council so that it may be able to seriously and fairly address questions that touch on international peace and security. During the meetings of the Working Group established by the General Assembly to look into the question of equitable representation in and increase in the membership of the Security Council, as well as into other related matters, my country declared its support of the call for enhancing the powers of the General Assembly, including giving it the right to deal with questions of peace and security in the world, in conformity with the provisions of the Charter. My country reiterates its conviction that reforming the Security Council and increasing its membership should be part and parcel of an integrate process of reform that must be guided by the principles of the sovereign equality of States, equitable geographical distribution and the need to democratize the procedures and methods applied in the Security Council, including the process of decision-making. 16 Libya has been among the first to call for the elimination of all the obstacles that hamper the work of the Security Council, particularly, the veto power. Today my country takes satisfaction in the fact that this call, which Libya made 20 years ago, now has the support of many countries. This shows that those countries have now become convinced that there is no longer any justification for the power of the veto and that its continued existence breaches one of the principles of the United Nations, namely, the equality of States. It is that veto power which impedes all efforts aimed at the democratization of the membership and functions of United Nations bodies. Since becoming a Member of the United Nations, my country has played an active role in and contributed to many achievements of which the Organization can be proud. My country will also contribute to whatever the Organization seeks to achieve in the future. Based on this, we have actively participated in the international Conferences recently organized by the United Nations on population, social development, human rights, and women. This we did in the same spirit that inspires our country’s international activities at other levels. That is why Libya has participated in all efforts aimed at strengthening the Arab Maghreb Union. We are proud to see that this Union has advanced steadily and has taken serious initiatives to serve the peoples of the Union and to protect their gains. Libya works with the same determination to adopt effective measures to enhance cooperation and strengthen confidence and security in the Mediterranean region in order to remove the causes of tensions there. This includes our efforts to close foreign military bases in the Mediterranean region and to secure the withdrawal of military fleets from its waters. Proceeding from its positions of principle, Libya has been at the forefront of the defenders of the aspirations of peoples, whether in the field of decolonization, the protection and maintenance of human rights, or the enhancement of the role principles of justice and fairness should play in international relations. Libya has also sought to solve a number of regional disputes by peaceful means. In this spirit, it has undertaken several mediation missions including, for example, assistance in solving the problems in the southern Philippines and helping to arrest the deterioration of the dispute between Sudan and Uganda, as well as those between Nigeria and Cameroon and Greece and Turkey. Libya has also contributed to efforts aimed at halting the escalation of the dispute between India and Pakistan, and has helped in containing events in north Niger and Mali. In this current session in particular, Libya takes pride in the fact that these positions have had wide- ranging effects that were reflected in the trust placed in my country by Arab States and the group of African States which unanimously nominated Libya to the membership of the Security Council for the coming two years. While expressing its high appreciation of this Arab and African stand, Libya would like to thank, in advance, all the countries that will support our candidature for that seat. We should also like to confirm to everybody that Libya will support all efforts aimed at the realization of the purposes of the United Nations and, in cooperation with members of the Security Council and other members of the Organization, will work to enhance the role of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security, and in closing ranks with other countries in facing up to the dangers that threaten peace and security in the world. At the beginning of this statement, I said that this session of the General Assembly had a special significance. This is due to the fact that we believe that the historical occasion under the aura of which this session convenes, namely, the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, will afford us all an opportunity that should be seized — an opportunity to realize peace, security and prosperity for humanity. In our view, the starting point in this direction lies in hard work to establish the structure of a new international order. Such an order, however, should not be built according to the wishes of the few who seek to impose their hegemony on others in deciding the fate of the world, and to dictate their own methods of dealing with international relations. The new order that would satisfy us all should be built on the common aspirations of all. It should be an order that guarantees full equality to all countries; an order that must respect the free political, economic and social choices of all peoples. The new order should protect and enhance human rights. It should create conditions conducive to the settlement of disputes and conflicts and to the resolution of differences among States by peaceful means. It should be an order which provides security and stability, and should make it possible for all nations to aspire after development and to be optimistic about the future. This new order should embody the noble concepts and ideals enshrined in the Charter; namely, the need to unite our strength to save humanity from the scourge of war, to realize justice, to respect the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of 17 international law, and to promote better standards of life in greater freedom. Let me begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. Our confidence in your stewardship is further strengthened by your distinguished career at home and, indeed, your understanding of international affairs. I should therefore like to assure you of my delegation’s full support and cooperation as you carry out your important mandate. I should also like to pay tribute to your illustrious predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for a job well done. Indeed, he has honoured his country and, by extension, the entire African continent by succeeding in giving the presidency of the General Assembly a new image. As for the Secretary-General of the Organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, we can hardly thank him enough for his work, including the excellent arrangements made for this session, which takes on particular importance this year. The Secretary-General deserves commendation for all his commitment to development, social justice and international peace and security — objectives on the basis of which this Organization was founded. Having said that, I should like to take this opportunity to welcome the one-hundred-eighty-fifth Member of the United Nations. Palau’s recent admission is a true reflection of the universality of the Organization. It is regrettable, though, that it has not been possible to discuss the readmission of the Republic of China on Taiwan on the basis of the same principle. Considering its population of 21 million and the fact that it is one of the world’s leading economies, my delegation sincerely believes that the Republic of China on Taiwan, readmitted as a full Member, would make significant contributions to the work of the United Nations. It is hoped that such a move would also facilitate the process of reunification. About the same time last year we informed this Assembly of the establishment of an Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council and a new Government in the Gambia, under the chairmanship of His Excellency Captain Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh, following the military takeover on 22 July 1994. The factors that compelled the Army to take over the reins of power have already been explained in sufficient detail. Prominent among the reasons was rampant corruption. In this regard, let me inform the Assembly that the various commissions of inquiry established to probe the activities of the former regime have so far made shocking revelations about the degree of corruption and mismanagement that was the order of the day in the Gambia during the last 30 years. The most devastating revelation of all has been made by the Crude Oil Commission, which uncovered the embezzlement of millions of dollars meant to finance development projects in the country. Equally breathtaking are the findings of the Commission concerning Government Departments and line Ministries. The work of the Public Assets and Properties Recovery Commission, also chaired by a Superior Court Judge, is progressing steadily. Here again what has been unfolding leaves no reasonable doubt that there was widespread abuse of public office under the previous regime. Meanwhile, the Commission of Inquiry into Land Administration is currently examining the evidence that it has been gathering since its creation, and it will submit its report soon. By all accounts, the findings so far of the Commission of Inquiry into the Financial Activities of Public Corporations are also earth-moving. Strenuous efforts are being made to recover everything stolen. But the important thing is the lesson drawn from all these Commissions, which, basically, is that public office is essentially for the service of one’s country, and not to be used as a vehicle for self- enrichment. Even members of the general public are now more responsive to their tax obligations, as evidenced by the record tax collections since the setting up of the Commissions to which I have referred. More important, 11 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 the principles of accountability, transparency and probity in public life are gradually taking root in Gambian society. All these facts speak for themselves, and we now understand why the Gambia is poorer today than it was at the time of independence. The country’s meagre resources, which should have been utilized for development purposes, were grossly mismanaged — to say the least. This is why not a single hospital or high school had been built after 30 years of independence. It was deliberate policy to keep our people ignorant and, therefore, no serious attempt was made to build a television station or, at least, to improve the national radio station so that it could be heard all over the country. Can this, in all honesty, be called democracy? And, to perpetuate themselves in power, the authorities of the former regime brought in truck-loads of foreigners to vote for them during elections. In the absence of an independent electoral commission it was easy for them to indulge in such malpractice. The Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council Government has since adopted a Programme of Rectification and Timetable for Transition to Democratic Constitutional Rule by July 1996. Mindful, however, of the fact that democracy and development are inextricably linked, we have also drawn up a development agenda focusing mainly on the social sectors. The two programmes, contained in one document, were formally submitted to our traditional partners-in-development for assistance. To our great surprise, however, and despite all the hullabaloo over the need to speed up the democratization process, very little or no assistance at all was forthcoming to complement our national efforts. Despite the fact that the Timetable was reduced from four years to two years after nationwide consultation, the European Union and its allies still maintain sanctions against the Government. None of the efforts made to implement the various activities in the transition Programme have been acknowledged by them. I am referring to the Constitutional Review Commission, the Civic Education Programme, and the Electoral Law Review Committee. Our traditional partners in development all reneged on their promises. This unfounded scepticism has not deterred us from forging ahead with our plans to build a new society. That is why we have decided to finance the operations of some of these activities to demonstrate our commitment to the transition Programme. As a serious-minded Government we cannot abdicate our responsibility, or our duty, towards our people. It is for that reason that two high schools and three junior secondary schools are being built. They should be ready within the next few weeks. Plans are also well under way to build at least a third referral hospital. In addition to the building of schools our national education policy is currently under review with the aim of making education more accessible to all, notably to girls, and tailored to suit our national development objectives. Recently, too, we have embarked on the building of a university. All these efforts clearly demonstrate once more the importance attached to the development of human resources. This, we are convinced, will rescue our people from the darkness of ignorance, illiteracy and deprivation. In the area of infrastructural development, not only are roads being built, but His Excellency the Chairman of the Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council and Head of State recently laid the foundation-stone for the new Banjul International Airport complex. In fact, work has commenced on this project, which is on a turn-key basis. As agriculture is the backbone of the economy, the Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council Government is giving this sector all the attention that it deserves. That is in line with our thinking that a nation that cannot feed itself can hardly be called independent. A hungry nation cannot concentrate on nation-building. Besides, food is used as a weapon. It is said that the youth of today are the future leaders of tomorrow. Guided by this adage and the principle of good citizenry, the Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council has introduced a National Youth Service Scheme, the basic purpose of which is to inculcate discipline and to reorient the thinking of Gambian youth towards nation-building while harnessing their potential for future adult life. The first group of volunteers will be sworn in in the new year. It may be said without fear of contradiction that Gambians have now become more aware of their rights and duties and that for the first time in many years they face the future with renewed hope and confidence. On that fateful Friday of 22 July 1994, His Excellency the Chairman of the Armed Forces Provisional Ruling 12 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 Council, Captain Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh, woke a nation that had been slumbering for 30 years with a new vision to transform the Gambia into a highly developed model country. In this way the Government will have bequeathed to the present and future generations a legacy worthy of all the sacrifices that are being made today. History teaches us that once in a while at some point in a country’s history a visionary leader will emerge with a mission to transform that society for the better. We in the Gambia are fortunate that in the hour of need, His Excellency Captain Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh, a soldier with a difference, took centre stage, and now provides the quality of leadership commensurate with the challenges of the times. Since the advent of the Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council to power under Chairman Jammeh’s guidance we have learned within a short period of time what effective leadership means, and have come to the conclusion that there is no gainsaying that a leadership with vision always has the nation’s interests at heart. Similarly, at the international level when the world’s leadership is characterized by statesmen with a vision, the collective interests of mankind always have primacy over other considerations emanating from narrow-minded nationalism. As great minds think alike, and as a bitter lesson had been learned from two world wars, the need was felt to create the United Nations. It is interesting to note that in the Preamble to the Charter we do not find the usual phrases that appear in other international legal instruments, such as “We the contracting parties” but instead we have the words “We the peoples of the United Nations”. The concept of international solidarity and the unity of the human race immediately come into play with the expressed determination not only “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war” but also “to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples”. It is in this spirit that my delegation views the World Summit for Social Development held in Copenhagen last March as a significant turning-point in the international community’s persistent efforts to improve the quality of life of peoples all over the world. The Summit, including the non-governmental organizations forum, facilitated a broader exchange of views by the international community on social development issues, with emphasis on poverty alleviation, the generation of employment, and health care. The adoption of the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and Programme of Action conveys our collective concern over the world’s social ills and indeed the commitment to a concerted effort to find viable solutions to these problems. Of particular relevance to my delegation are the commitments made by the said forum concerning the socio-economic development of Africa, and of the least- developed countries in particular, and the provision of the necessary financial and other resources. These commitments should serve as the basis for Africa’s sustained economic and social development. The political will and resources necessary for the effective implementation of the Programme of Action of the World Summit for Social Development should be demonstrated not only in the full application of the 20/20 initiative but also the channelling of substantial technological, scientific and other resources aimed at achieving our objectives. The Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing, which has just ended, highlighted gender equality and gender needs, including the participation of women in the economic and political decision-making process, the elimination of all forms of discrimination and violence against women, adequate recognition and support of the contribution of women to the management of natural resources and the safeguarding of the environment. Indeed, as ably stated by the Secretary-General of the United Nations: “The empowerment of women is the empowerment of all humanity!” (Press Release SG/SM/5732) The Platform for Action, which focuses on the role of women in development, should provide important guidelines for realizing the goals that we have set. In the Gambia, women have been playing an indispensable role in national development. Today 4 out of 14 Ministers are women, responsible for important sectors such as health and social welfare, education, youth and sports, and tourism and culture. Our participation in the World Conference with our First Lady as Head of Delegation 13 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 was inspired by the Government’s commitment to women’s issues, including gender equality and the encouragement of women to participate in national development. It goes without saying that women and children constitute the most vulnerable group in society, and we will not be doing justice to our children if we do not renew the commitments made during the World Summit for Children and acknowledge the preponderant role played by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in mapping out strategies for the greater welfare of children all over the world. We in the Gambia have made considerable progress in the implementation of the mid-term decade goals, notably in the area of the Expanded Programme on Immunization. At this juncture, my delegation would like to pay tribute to the memory of the late James P. Grant, the former Executive Director of UNICEF, for his outstanding performance in increasing international public awareness of the plight of children and his total dedication to the cause of children the world over. It is our fervent hope that the new Executive Director will build on the achievements of her predecessor. An issue related to the question of women and children is population and development. It will be recalled that at the International Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo in September 1994, far- reaching decisions were taken, as outlined in the Programme of Action that was adopted. What is important here is that what should be done at the national level should be complemented by a concerted international effort, as agreed in Cairo. The interrelationship between population and the environment cannot be overemphasized. In fact, in the Programme of Action adopted at the International Conference on Population and Development, it is stated that “Pressure on the environment may result from rapid population growth, distribution and migration, especially in ecologically vulnerable ecosystems. Urbanization and policies that do not recognize the need for rural development also create environmental problems.” (A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1, annex, chapter III, section C, para. 3.26) In this regard, it is gratifying to note that following the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992, it has been possible, under Agenda 21, to successfully conclude the Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa. In the same vein, we are mindful of the needs of our peoples for better living standards and improvement of the rural and urban environment through the provision of adequate shelter and sustainable human settlements. My delegation therefore anxiously looks forward to the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), to be held in Istanbul, Turkey, in June next year. All these world conferences on various issues of concern to the international community should be seen as our collective endeavour to give concrete expression to the pledge enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”. In pursuit of these objectives, we should also be strengthened in our resolve, as also stated in the Charter, “to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small”. This leads me to recall the World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna a few years ago. We in the Gambia have always maintained that human rights should not be viewed only from the narrow perspective of civil and political rights, but also from the perspective of the right to development. In the Gambia, over the last 30 years, we have had the experience of elections being held at regular intervals, but we all know that it was only a facade. There is no point in overemphasizing civil and political rights in a developing country at the expense of more pressing needs in other areas, such as health, education and agriculture. Before people can think of casting a vote they first of all want to make sure that they have enough food to eat, can send their children to school and have access to health care. In any case, let there be no illusion about this, for democracy cannot flourish under conditions of abject poverty. The greatest threat to international peace and security today is the ever widening gap between rich and poor. And since we live in a world of interdependence, 14 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 the North-South dialogue that has been dormant for so long needs to be revived urgently to put the emphasis on the economic development of third world countries. It is true that the world economic situation has registered notable improvements in the economies both of industrialized and of some developing countries. It is to be noted, however, that the various growth rates in different developing countries reflect their limitations and lack of adequate incentives and resources. The conclusion of the Uruguay Round is expected to generate an increase in merchandise trade of 12 per cent by the year 2005. As far as developing countries are concerned, however, any benefits to be derived from this agreement would depend largely on their accessibility to markets through the removal, of course, of tariff as well as non-tariff barriers. It is feared, though, that in the case of sub-Saharan Africa any gains from the Uruguay Round will be seriously limited by the low proportion of manufactured goods in its exports. The case is even more serious for least developed countries. The Economic and Social Council’s high-level meeting on the development of Africa within the context of the review of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the l990s, held from 4 to 6 July 1995 in Geneva, was indeed very timely. None the less, the mapping out of all these strategies for development will have little meaning unless they are matched by the necessary resources to achieve the desired results, especially when the resources generated through structural adjustment are paradoxically diverted to service our debts. And we know that it is indeed an excruciating burden. All these issues have been adequately addressed in the United Nations Agenda for Development. In the Agenda for Peace, however, there is still the need for greater efforts to find solutions to the various protracted conflicts around the world. There have been a lot of criticisms and reservations pertaining to peace-keeping operations — notably with regard to the huge costs involved — but peace is priceless. What has happened to the peace dividend, anyway, which was talked about so much during previous sessions of the General Assembly? The head of the Australian delegation made some interesting proposals regarding the financing of peace-keeping operations. There is a lot of sense and merit to what he said, and we should be doing justice to ourselves if these proposals were considered seriously. We must never relent in our collective endeavour to find lasting solutions to all the conflicts besetting the international community, whether in Somalia, Rwanda, Burundi or Afghanistan, to name a few. In our subregion, we welcome the signing of the Peace Agreement by all the warring factions in the Liberian civil war and the establishment of Council of State to oversee the transition to a democratic, freely elected civilian Government. It is our fervent hope that the cease-fire will hold so that the people of Liberia will once again live in the environment of peace and stability that has been denied them for so long. Let me take this opportunity to commend the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) for its timely initiative and persistent endeavour to finally put together this important peace package. This clearly demonstrates that regional arrangements, as stipulated in Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations, could play a preponderant role in conflict resolution. We have been following with great attention the progress made in the Middle East peace process, and my delegation would like to take this opportunity to congratulate both Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) on these achievements and to encourage them to maintain the same commitment in the quest for a just and lasting peace. With regard to the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, my delegation notes with cautious optimism the recent peace deal between the parties concerned. It would not have been possible, however to bring the Serb aggressors to the negotiating table without the limited use of force against them. The situation in Jammu and Kashmir has also been of concern to my delegation. We therefore urge all the parties to the conflict to try to resolve this long-running dispute through dialogue. We in the Gambia have always maintained that we will never condone the use of force by a bigger Power to impose its will on a smaller country. I am referring to the lingering problems resulting from the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, such as the question of prisoners of war, payment of reparations and, indeed, the return to Kuwait of all properties taken away during the invasion. In short, Iraq should comply with all Security Council resolutions. 15 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 Meanwhile, though, ways and means should be found to ease the suffering of the innocent Iraqi civilian populations. Fifty years is a relatively short period in the life of an international organization such as the United Nations, but it has been a period full of important and eventful activities, with successes and setbacks. For 50 years now the United Nations has been working for global development and the maintenance of international peace and security. Its Charter has become the legal and moral foundation of international relations. Through the United Nations we have witnessed the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the enactment of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, the holding of global conferences on the environment, development, population, children, women, and soon, on human settlements. The United Nations should be commended primarily for the broader role it played during the cold-war period and for championing the concerns and interests of developing countries. It has always provided a platform where big and small nations meet and discuss issues of common concern. At this juncture, when we are celebrating the golden jubilee of the United Nations, my delegation believes that the time could not be more propitious to lift the economic blockade against Cuba. This dynamic island nation has made remarkable progress in the area of medicine and genetic engineering, achievements that Cuba would share with the rest of the international community. As a small developing country confronted with unique challenges, the Gambia is keen to ensure that the ongoing reforms aimed at restructuring and revitalizing the United Nations remain on course. The strengthening of the role of the General Assembly and the office of its President as well as the improvement in the performance of the Secretariat should be commended. Any reform of the United Nations system should emphasize the need for more coordination between agencies and the development of new procedures for the accelerated implementation of programmes and activities. The challenges facing the United Nations today will continue well into the twenty-first century. In this connection it is imperative to restructure the composition of the Security Council as soon as possible to reflect the realities of today and in that restructuring Africa’s interest must be taken into account. In other words, Africa must be represented permanently on the Security Council. Let me conclude by renewing the Gambia’s commitment to the ideals of the United Nations. The Organization is far from being perfect, but, at the same time, we do recognize that it is indispensable, for it is the repository of the hopes and aspirations of mankind. At the outset, in addressing this distinguished Assembly, I should like to express to you, Mr. President, our sincere congratulations on your election to conduct the proceedings of this fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We are assured that with your qualities as a statesman and your diplomatic skills, we shall achieve very constructive results for the well-being of the international community, especially at this most important time when we are commemorating the fiftieth year of the existence of the United Nations. We should also like to congratulate His Excellency, Mr. Amara Essy, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, for the excellent work that he carried out as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. It is both a timely moment and a pleasure to highlight the extraordinary and indefatigable performance of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, at the helm of the United Nations. He has demonstrated outstanding leadership, dynamism and innovative skill in improving and strengthening the Organization’s capacity for action in fulfilment of the provisions of the Charter and of efforts to find solutions for the diverse and complex situations which have faced the Organization. We would like to reaffirm our special gratitude to the Secretary-General for his ongoing support in the process of consolidating and strengthening democracy in El Salvador. The current session of the General Assembly is particularly important in the historical development of the United Nations, not only because we are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the creation of an exceptional institution of universal scope, which was established to analyse, debate and seek solutions to problems of common concern to mankind, but also because current circumstances lend themselves to reflection regarding the future of our Organization. Indeed, we have at this time a unique opportunity to reaffirm our commitment and our political will to strengthen the role of the Organization, to enhance its effectiveness in achieving the ideals on which it was founded, to bring to fruition the aspirations of our peoples, and to preserve the right of future generations to live in peace, progress and freedom. Undeniably, this is a year for reflection, one which will enable us to assess carefully a half-century of development and experience acquired in addressing global issues through joint efforts and collective measures on a multilateral basis, taking into account not only the achievements but also the set-backs, with a view to further perfecting this human endeavour. The work of the United Nations, as a part of the international system established in the wake of the Second World War, reflected the antagonistic nature of international relations during the cold-war period, which generated tension and insecurity for nations, unleashing an unbridled arms race and the threat of a nuclear conflict between the super-Powers. This was no doubt a key factor in shaping, and limiting, the work of the Organization. As we make our assessment, we must acknowledge that since 1945, despite the existence of the cold war, the United Nations has achieved much, inter alia, in the following spheres: fulfilling its mission to establish and maintain international peace and security, containing local conflicts in various regions from spreading and at the same time creating a safety valve for East-West tensions, which prevented a political and ideological conflict from degenerating into a widespread confrontation or into nuclear warfare. Another achievement, in accordance with the Charter, was the decolonization process by which many Asian and African countries, and some on the American continent, gained independence and joined the community of nations, thus enriching the Organization by their experience and contributions. In this regard, the United Nations has also helped to foster international cooperation. To this end, an institutional infrastructure was developed to promote economic and social development for our peoples through the establishment of a new international economic order, one that would generate more favourable conditions and opportunities for the developing countries to make progress, thus setting in motion a process of evening out the major imbalances between North and South. While these efforts contributed to improving social conditions in the poorest countries and in countries that had recently gained independence, certain perceptions and attitudes led to a development crisis in the 1980s, curtailing the activities of the United Nations system in the least developed countries. Turning to the realm of human rights, considerable progress was made, beginning with the signing of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on 10 December 1948 and the adoption of a host of international instruments, declarations, plans of action and institutional machinery for the promotion and monitoring of international commitments on the part of States. These include the promotion of the development of women, the rights of children, the handicapped, minority groups, indigenous peoples and migrant workers, and, in particular, a commitment to the struggle to eliminate racial discrimination in South Africa, which culminated in 1994 with the establishment of a democratic and multiracial system in that country. In the field of international law, outstanding progress was made in the drawing up and codification of international standards, in particular those conducive to friendly relations among peoples and to the peaceful resolution of conflicts. The thoroughgoing changes in the world order that led to the end of the cold war are giving rise to the expectation of more favourable conditions for the promotion of peace, cooperation and international security. None the less, reality has shown that these aspirations have not been met and that, on the contrary, changes in the international system created conditions that have unleashed forces that had long been held in check, giving rise to new conflicts and rivalries, not only as a result of resurgent nationalism but also as a cause of serious ethnic, religious, social and cultural differences which have jeopardized peace and international security. In this context, we are convinced that at the present time finding solutions to age-old and new challenges is beyond the capacity of any one State or group of States. This has generated new requirements in the global political area, requiring to resort more and more frequently to combined efforts and action. The very dynamics and requirements of this process have in turn increased the tasks and responsibilities that fall to the United Nations. 2 For this reason we must provide unwavering support to the efforts of the United Nations to fulfil its role, not only in the political sphere but also in the economic and social areas, particularly through innovations and new perceptions in peace-keeping and the promotion of development. Regarding efforts at global peace-keeping, it is important to note the new dimension of these peace-keeping operations, whose action transcends the military aspects, moving into multidisciplinary activities that include political, economic, social and humanitarian endeavours. As regards development, we welcome the fact that more attention has been paid to economic, social and environmental issues, with an understanding that their solution requires coming to grips with, and attempting to find solutions to, the causes of tensions, instability and conflicts with greater political will. As such tensions can go beyond the very borders of nation States, we must lend our support to an integrated approach, for only in this way can we consolidate peace, security and democracy, both nationally and internationally. Proof of the will to improve the well-being of nations and assist in their progress can be seen in the major summit conferences that have been held, as well as in the formulation of the Secretary-General’s development programme. These efforts serve as examples of a new global vision to achieve a consensus on policies and strategies to promote sustainable human development. None the less, we cannot but be concerned at the statements made by the donor community regarding the drying up of funds for development. This is certainly against the general expectation of support for the development of our peoples. Today, the United Nations has different, and more complex, responsibilities than those it had in a bipolar world. Although the purposes and principles that inspired the United Nations at its inception still remain valid, none the less political situations and the complexity and magnitude of the challenges we face require clear and innovative responses. In the face of these challenges we must be both determined and prudent, resolved to be advocates of change, learning from positive experiences and willing to replace those outmoded practices that impede the smooth functioning of the Organization. We believe that the modernization of the United Nations should be carried out through a comprehensive process of an integrated nature which would reflect a consensus deriving from the common interests and shared responsibilities of the international community. In this respect, we believe that there should be a more dynamic, better-coordinated relationship between the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, one which requires, as the Secretary-General himself stated, “the determination and the full commitment of all Member States”. The industrialized countries bear a special responsibility in this task, given that with their capabilities and resources they can provide the Organization with a broad and assured financial base which will make it possible to enhance its effectiveness in every sphere. In this connection, we urge the Heads of State and Government of the seven industrialized Powers to put into practice the statement of intention they made at the twenty-first Economic Summit, held in Halifax, Canada, in June 1995. We call on those countries, along with others, to implement a new strategy for international cooperation in order to rise to the challenges of the twenty-first century. The reform of the Security Council falls within the process of change in the Organization. We support the idea that the Council should adjust to the new international structure, not only regarding the number of its members but also regarding its methods and procedures of decision-making. The Government of El Salvador supports an increase in the membership of the Security Council on a rational basis which will make its more truly representative and, as a result, afford greater opportunities for participation by all Member States, without in any way undermining the efficient implementation of the tasks assigned to this important body by the Charter. Furthermore, we support all those nations which aspire with legitimate right to becoming Members of the United Nations and invoke the principle of universality enshrined in the Charter of the Organization, without taking into consideration ideological aspects or the interests of States which carry greater political weight in the concert of nations. In this respect we share the views expressed by you, Mr. President, when in your opening address to this session of the General Assembly you said that 3 “all States that are not yet Members should seek to be admitted in the near future” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 1st meeting, p.22) I should now like to refer to some specific issues that are of particular importance in the international political arena. With respect to nuclear disarmament we support full compliance with the commitments contained in the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which was extended indefinitely last May. We are convinced that this constitutes a major step towards the strengthening of the control system for nuclear non-proliferation and the total elimination of nuclear weapons. We are fully convinced that preventive diplomacy in its various manifestations is the appropriate instrument for deterrence and the limitation of potential conflicts. In this respect we concur with the statement by the Secretary- General in his latest report presented to the General Assembly that “it is ... better to prevent conflicts ... than to undertake major politico-military efforts to resolve conflicts once they have broken out”. (A/50/l, para. 585) We support his efforts to enable the United Nations to carry out a constructive and timely role so as to avoid or mitigate the destructive effects of crises. I should now like to express a regional point of view and note with satisfaction that Central America has moved from an era of confrontation to one of cooperation. We are now embarking on a stage of constructive achievements which has enabled us to move forward in our quest to consolidate a region of peace, freedom, democracy and development. This new stage results from our having assumed our historical responsibility with determination, given the legitimate aspirations of our peoples, who clamored for peace and the democratization of our societies. With the assistance and solidarity of the United Nations and the international community we are achieving these objectives, which will be completed when the process under way in Guatemala concludes with a firm and lasting peace agreement, which has the decisive support of our Governments. Now that we have made significant headway in the political sphere we are focusing our efforts on the social sphere as an indispensable ingredient, in the conviction that peace, democracy and development are essential components for the flourishing of our society. Given this undeniable reality, the Central American Presidents have been meeting together to exchange ideas and experiences so that jointly, with a sense of solidarity and coordination, we can rise to meet the ever-more- complex challenges that face us as a result of the process of political, economic, social and environmental globalization which characterizes the new world order. An example of this was the signing of the Treaty on Central American social integration, which took place at the presidential summit held at the beginning of this year in the city of San Salvador. Moreover, we are pleased to inform the Assembly that in the past 12 months we have held meetings at the highest level in Guacimo, Costa Rica; in Masaya, Nicaragua; in Tegucigalpa, Honduras; and in San Salvador, the capital of my own country, during which we adopted critical decisions for the future of our peoples. We defined our priorities in a new regional agenda which was given concrete expression by the signing of the alliance for sustainable development. This embodies both a strategy and a coordination of interests and responsibilities with legal harmonization and emphasis on investment in the social sphere, as we recognize that human beings are the pivotal point and the principal subject of development. The breadth and magnitude of the objectives spelled out in the new strategy for development exceed the capacities and resources of our countries, and we believe that the international community can contribute generously towards bringing these strategies to fruition. In this context we ascribe particular importance to the strengthening of the newly revamped Central American Integration System (SICA) which has assumed as one of its main responsibilities the promotion and implementation of the new Central American agenda. May we urge the Assembly to extend the observer status we have applied for to this new organization, SICA. We can affirm that Central America has now entered a new era in its history characterized by ongoing cooperation among our countries, as reflected in our efforts to create the conditions which will overcome the obstacles which have done such damage to the cause of integration, so that we can move forward steadfastly towards the unification of Central America. 4 In this connection we are particularly pleased at the recent progress made during the binational Honduras/El Salvador Commission meeting with a view to complying with the border demarcation arrangements guaranteeing the rights of the inhabitants of the border zones on both sides simultaneously. In the specific case of my own country we can give a categorical assurance that in the three years since the signing of the peace agreements, El Salvador has moved forward in a constructive way. The commitment of the Government is firm and unswerving in its determination to harness the requisite strength to build a new country, a modern, democratic El Salvador, in which all the sectors of Salvadorian society will participate without discrimination. After more than a year at the helm I am pleased to state that my Government is fulfilling the promises contained in the inaugural address which I delivered to the Salvadorian people on 1 June 1994. We have been duly following up the peace agreements conceived by the entire nation as a commitment and as an essential prerequisite for moving forward without any possibility of backsliding as we build a peaceful society. During the period of transition from war to peace and national reconstruction we have devoted ourselves to consolidating the pacification process in the conviction that that is a task that must be shared in a responsible manner among the entire population. That task involves not only finding a solution to the immediate problems created by 12 years of armed confrontation, but in addition, providing a comprehensive response to domestic problems, for only thus can we guarantee that the process will be irreversible and capable of meeting future challenges in a society of stability and peace. Concerning pending commitments under the Peace Agreements, we acknowledge realistically and in a constructive spirit that there have been problems, and hence delays, in complying with some of those provisions as a result of the highly complex nature of the process. Those difficulties have been overcome through dialogue and consensus among the sectors responsible for implementation. This has enabled us, with the assistance of the United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador, to alter the established time-tables and to agree on a work programme for the definitive completion of those commitments. We can affirm that we are complying in a responsible manner with the implementation of the Agreements, but if for logistical reasons some components were still to be pending on 31 October next, given that our determination to comply with those commitments remains steadfast we would request the Secretary-General to extend the residual United Nations Mission in El Salvador. Our responsibility as a Government goes beyond compliance with the Peace Agreements, for we must provide a comprehensive response to our national problems. Hence, with an awareness that lack of opportunity in our society leads to frustration and despair, creating tensions and conflicts that jeopardize the peace process, we have made additional efforts to implement an ambitious economic plan to develop our society, taking as our goals the betterment of human welfare, the systematic alleviation of poverty, and priority attention to health and education, in addition to promoting productive employment and generally meeting the basic needs of the population, especially its most vulnerable sectors that have traditionally been denied the fruits of economic and social progress. We are pleased to report that our Government has assigned the highest priority to the maintenance of macroeconomic stability through the implementation of a consistent and coherent set of monetary, exchange-rate and fiscal policies. This has enabled us to achieve specific economic targets, namely, the maintenance of a stable exchange rate, the reining in of inflation, the elimination of our fiscal deficit and the reduction of public expenditure, which has been redirected to social investment and basic infrastructure. Our Government is fully convinced that if we are to enjoy sustained medium- and long-term growth it must be based on an efficient and competitive productive sector, both domestically and internationally, and to that end we have adopted the requisite economic policy measures. Among these I would mention in particular the programme to reduce tariffs on the import of capital goods, inputs and raw materials; support for further development of the Central American Common Market; the creation of instruments to facilitate and provide guarantees to foreign investors; decisive support for programmes to enhance the competitiveness of the domestic production base; the promotion of small and micro enterprises; the development of intensive job- training programmes; and the implementation of our national environment strategy as a component of sustainable development in El Salvador. 5 To achieve those objectives the entire population of my country is striving to overcome resentment and antagonisms between different social sectors and thereby helping to foster the conditions for national stability with a view to consolidating peace, strengthening democracy and securing economic and social progress. The successful example of El Salvador clearly demonstrates that a Member State of the Organization, acting in good faith, with transparency and political will, can overcome situations of severe conflict, principally through the efforts of its own population but also with the timely assistance of the international community. Today, following this exceptional effort to achieve peace — an effort that is, indeed, still under way — El Salvador is a country that has learned major historical lesson. Foremost among them is the knowledge that within our national community we share a common destiny and that within the international community all major undertakings are shared. Learning from those truths, the challenge facing us all is to build a more human world for the benefit of present and future generations. The unanimous election of Mr. Freitas do Amaral to preside over this historic session, the fiftieth, of the General Assembly is a well-deserved tribute to his country, Portugal. Aware of his talent and his many political activities at the national and international levels, I venture to believe that under his guidance this session of the General Assembly will be successful. On this occasion, I also wish to pay tribute to, and to congratulate, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary- General of our Organization, for his vigorous efforts in carrying out his very responsible functions for the maintenance of peace and for the promotion of development throughout the world. The international situation is still complex and in a state of flux. Ethnic, religious and border conflicts still raging in various parts of our planet continue to haunt the international community. Despite numerous efforts to resolve those conflicts, there is no indication that we are anywhere near the goals we have set for ourselves. Bearing in mind past lessons and experiences, we should engage in informed reflection, undertake appropriate actions and act together to find reasonable and peaceful ways to meet these challenges. The realities of the world today show that it is not easy to create an atmosphere where peace and justice prevail, because this involves a noble, difficult and long- term duty, a duty that requires, at one and the same time, patience and resolution, which the international community as a whole is called upon to provide, is in the interest of the nations and the peoples of the world. In Europe, the conflict in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has caused great suffering to its people, remains without a final solution. The 60-day cease-fire agreement just concluded by the parties involved in this painful conflict is undoubtedly a new stage in the search for a global peace. This agreement also requires that other efforts be made, with a maximum of wisdom and restraint and a readiness to restore peace and stability in this region of the world. In Africa, after long years of struggle, the apartheid system finally has been abolished. Like all other peoples that love peace and freedom in the world, the Lao people are very happy about this event. We wish ever-greater success to the new South African authorities, under the wise leadership of President Nelson Mandela, in their tireless efforts to build a new South Africa, united, non- racial, democratic and prosperous. Still on the subject of Africa, the Lao people hope that the ethnic conflicts and violence still raging in some countries of the continent will be peacefully resolved in order to preserve unity and to promote national harmony and development in their respective countries. In the Caribbean, the overall situation is favourable to the promotion of mutual understanding as well as to the development cooperation between the countries of this region. In this context, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic believes that it is high time that the economic blockade decreed unilaterally against Cuba be lifted in order to contribute to the promotion of peace and stability and cooperation between the peoples of this region, without any discrimination whatsoever. In the Middle East, the conclusion this past September of the agreement between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel, which deals with the extension of autonomy to the West Bank region, marks a new, positive step in the implementation of the Declaration of Principles signed in Washington in 1993. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic hopes that the Middle East peace process will continue to move ahead, in the interest of lasting peace and of cooperation for development between the peoples of this region. In the Asia-Pacific region, countries of that region have exerted many laudable efforts to ensure the maintenance of peace and security and promotion of cooperation for development. These efforts enjoy increasing support from the various peoples of the world. The initiative to create a Regional Forum for the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) is another important gauge of the depth and strength of the confidence and cooperation in this part of the world. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic welcomes the positive results of the implementation of the 15 agreements which have been reached between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America and which have contributed to improving the situation in that region. At the same time, the Lao people fully support the ardent aspirations of the Korean people to the peaceful and independent reunification of Korea. As an integral part of the community of South-East Asia, one of the regions recognized for its activities in favour of maintaining peace and cooperation in the region and in the world, my country, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, has made a worthy contribution to that effort designed to make that region one of peace, friendship and cooperation as well as a nuclear-weapons-free zone. In its effort at national construction, my country has also had new success. Last year, the economic-growth rate reached the level of 8 per cent. The volume of foreign investment has increased, thus contributing to the improvement of the Lao people’s living conditions. More important still, political stability and social order in the country are now solidly guaranteed. At the present time, the Lao government is working actively to carry out, under market mechanisms, the development strategy to the year 2000, which would promote economic growth along with social development, the development of human resources and sustainable rural development, while giving great importance to environmental protection and the protection of the rights and the interests of women and children. In the international arena, the Lao Government will continue to apply its consistent policy of peace, friendship and cooperation with all countries. For the time being, it is concentrating its efforts on establishing the necessary conditions for it to become, in the near future, a full- fledged member of ASEAN. We hope that the countries of that organization, other friendly countries, and international organizations will provide assistance and support for our efforts. In recent years, the world economic situation as a whole has shown a somewhat positive trend. None the less, the majority of the developing countries still face economic difficulties stemming from many causes. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic believes, therefore, that in order for interdependence to be of equal benefit to all, we should resume as quickly as possible North-South dialogue in order to promote cooperation for development. At the same time, every effort should be made to find the means to settle as quickly as possible the debt problem of the least developed countries, in order to create conditions favourable to their development. The Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic attaches great importance to the implementation of the Programme of Action adopted by the Social Summit — the first of its kind — which was held last March in Copenhagen. My Government hopes that the international community will work together to implement that Programme and to promote socioeconomic development, which would allow mankind to live in conditions of peace, security and justice. The Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic believes that the success of the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing this past September, created a favourable political, economic and sociocultural atmosphere for the full participation of women in development. We will thus continue to promote and ensure rights to equality between men and women — rights that are clearly specified in our Constitution. We will also continue to mobilize and to help the women of ethnic minorities to participate fully in the development process, as both players and beneficiaries of the fruits of growth. In the current international situation, even though East-West confrontation has ended, mankind none the less continues to be concerned by the danger posed by the existence of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. It is imperative that joint, effective measures be taken to reduce this danger and eliminate it forever. In this context, the Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic supports the initiative of the countries of South-East Asia to make this region a nuclear-weapon-free zone. The question of the promotion of human rights and of fundamental freedoms continues to have a high priority on the international agenda. In considering this question, a large number of countries are concerned at the trend to deal only with the civil and political aspects of human rights and to use them to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries, which would violate the rights of peoples to self-determination. Bearing in mind the intrinsic characteristics of each nation, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic believes that only a global and balanced approach to this sensitive question would serve the cause of human rights and would meet the legitimate interests of all peoples. We are meeting today at a time when the United Nations is actively preparing to celebrate its fiftieth anniversary. This commemoration should be for us all an unprecedented opportunity to review the Organization’s 16 performance over the past five decades, with the goal of enhancing the effectiveness of its role in the economic and social development of peoples and in the maintenance of world peace. In a new international context, the United Nations, and in particular its Security Council, should be restructured and democratized in order to become a reliable and upright body enjoying the confidence of all nations and capable of solving global problems. In this spirit, the delegation of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic will continue, together with other delegations, to make its active contribution to the strengthening of our universal Organization. Permit me at the outset, Sir, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Angola and of my entire delegation that is accompanying me, to express my satisfaction at your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. We are convinced that your excellent personal qualities and the diplomatic skill you have accumulated will guarantee the success of the conduct of the work of this significant session. Your election is also well-deserved recognition of the important contribution which your country has made to the promotion of peace and international security. I assure you, at this stage, of the cooperation of my delegation. We commit ourselves to doing everything to support this arduous but honourable task with humility and a sense of responsibility. I cannot let this opportunity pass without expressing my appreciation to the outgoing President, Mr. Amara Essy, for the dedication and interest with which he carried out the activities of the Assembly during his mandate. Similarly, I address my remarks to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has tenaciously done everything, to find the very best solutions for the problems afflicting humanity, pledging to provide our Organization with the dynamism needed to face future challenges. The fiftieth session of the General Assembly, which coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, provides us with an opportunity to engage in profound reflection on the extent to which we have moved forward towards the realization of its main goals, inter alia, preservation of international peace and security, promotion and protection of human rights, and economic and social development, with a view to looking more optimistically and more boldly at the challenges which lie ahead on the eve of the twenty-first century. In fact, although the changes that took place in the wake of the cold war led to a certain easing in international relations and promoted, as never before, democratic values, the international situation nevertheless has continued to deteriorate in recent times in the political, economic, social and financial spheres. Conflicts of all sorts proliferate, affecting principally the countries of the so-called third world and creating a climate of uncertainty as to the future of humankind. As we approach the twenty-first century, we face new and greater challenges that will necessitate joint, 12 concerted action by the Members of the United Nations. This will require a new democratic structure in international relations, in the broadest sense. More than ever before, we need to think about the objectives and role of the United Nations, as set out in the Charter, and focus on that task. The process of restructuring the United Nations should lead the Organization to an arrangement that reflects the new challenges we face in the world at this time and that would allow for the broad participation of its Members. We are convinced that the present structure of the United Nations — and in particular that of the Security Council — does not meet the present needs of post-cold-war international relations. Apart from the restructuring undertaken in the agencies that coordinate economic and social development worldwide, priority should be given to the restructuring of the Security Council, whose composition continues to be a reflection of the cold war. The enlargement of the Council should take place with respect to the categories of permanent and non-permanent members alike. This will require taking into consideration the need for geographic balance. We are also in favour of restructuring the methods of work of the United Nations so as to make them more transparent. Furthermore, it is important to guarantee the effectiveness of the mechanisms and means of ensuring implementation of the decisions of United Nations organs. In recent years, the General Assembly has adopted numerous resolutions, and important global strategies have been defined in various forums under the aegis of the United Nations, aimed at solving problems afflicting all humankind. These problems range from the living conditions of children, the environment, human rights, population problems and social development to, more recently, the issue of the situation of women, dealt with at the Beijing Conference. The time has come to take action. The unsatisfactory functioning of some of the mechanisms for monitoring the application of decisions and the weak commitment of States have been the root cause of the failure to carry out many of these recommendations. The world socio-economic situation continues to deteriorate, particularly in the so-called developing countries, where many economies are on the verge of collapse. Public assistance for development has sunk to deplorable levels. United Nations agencies involved in development have seen their budgets severely affected by the financial crisis, resulting in cuts in numerous programmes that were destined to help raise development indicators in various countries. To give just one example, the annual report of the Secretary-General indicates that the United Nations Development Programme experienced a reduction of $1.4 billion in the period 1992-1996. Structural adjustment programmes undertaken in various countries have not produced the desired results, leading to reductions in national funds in the social field. These negative factors are cumulative, and added to them is the heavy burden of external debt, whose service alone consumes a large part of the gross national product of debtor countries. Africa’s capacity to repay debt has been negatively affected not only by weak economic structures inherited from the past, but also by natural disasters and internal armed conflicts. In view of this situation, it is necessary to adopt measures that are more just and less prejudicial, so that debtor countries can pay their external debt without hindering their development or requiring further sacrifices on the part of the poorest segments of their populations. The principal international financial institutions should grant more favourable credit to developing countries, so that the remedies applied to their respective economies will not lead to a deterioration of the health of those economies. The present international economic order does not favour the economies of the so-called third world. It is thus necessary to have a more just international economic order, without protectionist measures that impede international business relations and create discrimination against developing countries, the majority of which become sources of raw materials and inexpensive labour and importers of manufactured goods. The strengthening of south-south cooperation and regional economic integration will, as we see it, be an adequate response to this trend. Countries of the southern region of Africa, to which Angola belongs, have provided a good example of regional integration, both economic and political, by forming the Southern African Development Community (SADC). Given the prospects for total political stability in the region and its economic potential, the region may well transform itself into an 13 important development zone. In the same way we value the joint regional integration between members of the Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic, of which Angola is also a member. In successive resolutions the General Assembly has recommended that priority be given to our continent in terms of aid for development, because it is the region of the world that has most suffered the tragic effects of colonialism. But reality shows a significant drop in resources available for development. This aggravates the precarious economic situation of African countries that have no capital and no technology, which increases poverty and makes them susceptible to serious internal conflict. If, as we have just indicated, it is true that we are witnessing, nearly everywhere, some proliferation of regional conflicts that put peace and international security at risk, it is also true that in Africa these conflicts have reached a level of great danger. Not only is the dimension of such conflicts a source of concern but so is their nature. Its markedly ethnic, racial or religious character is being used to justify intentions which place at risk the unity and territorial integrity of several nations. The inadmissible genocide that occurred in Rwanda seriously damaged the values of human dignity and tolerance. Above all, it demonstrated the need for the international community to seek new ways and means to eliminate the focal points of conflict and to guarantee protection for civilian populations, the people who are the primary victims of internal conflicts. In Burundi we are concerned about the deteriorating internal situation. In this connection the international community, and the United Nations in particular, should shoulder their responsibilities in order to help avoid the repetition in that country of earlier events by supporting by every means available the efforts carried out by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) mission with a view to fostering peace and stability. In Somalia the continuing fratricidal war that is tearing that society apart is threatening the very existence and integrity of the country. The international community, and the United Nations in particular, cannot and should not fail to shoulder its responsibilities vis-à-vis the people of Somalia. We pay tribute to Liberia for the recent developments in that country, thanks to the recent Abuja peace agreement between the warring parties. We hope that this agreement will finally bring lasting peace to the Liberian people. Concerning Western Sahara, we join our voice to the voice of the international community in urging the interested parties to observe the United Nations peace plan. Despite its own internal difficulties, the Government of the Republic of Angola is doing its utmost to support OAU efforts within the framework of African mechanisms of prevention, management and resolution of conflicts. In that context we did not hesitate to make a contribution to a resolution of the crisis faced by the people of the Republic of Sao Tome and Principe after the coup d’état of 15 August. As the Assembly will be aware, Angolan mediation helped to restore democratic institutions and constitutional order in that country. We have acted on behalf of the historic solidarity which links our two peoples in a common struggle for democratic liberties and respect for the law of constitutional institutions. Thanks to the support provided by the international community, particularly the Portuguese-speaking countries, along with the European Union, France and Portugal in particular, and of course the Secretary-General of the United Nations, we were able, in a short period of time, to get an agreement between the parties on 22 August last. The conflict in the countries of the former Yugoslavia is one of the most complex conflicts seen in Europe since the end of the cold war. The Government of Angola is concerned about this conflict. We support the current peace initiatives and hope that the meeting between the parties involved and the mediators will lead to concrete results, to the satisfaction of the peoples of the region. The situation in the Middle East has been marked by some important and significant developments since the signing of the agreement between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the beginning of the normalization of bilateral relations among countries of the region. Such advances are quite encouraging. We are confident of a final end to the Arab-Israeli conflict if we continue to see political will, a constructive spirit and flexibility demonstrated on all sides. Angola has always defended the right to self-determination of the people of 14 Palestine and the restitution of the occupied Arab territories. We here reiterate our support for the peace process that is under way and express our opposition to acts of violence intended to call into question the continuation of this process. The question of East Timor continues to prick the conscience of the international community. It is necessary to ensure that the people of East Timor enjoy the legitimate right freely to choose its own destiny and that this be recognized. In this regard the United Nations has an important responsibility, which it cannot escape. We are particularly encouraged by the opening of a dialogue between Portugal and Indonesia. But there will be positive results only if the interests and options of the people of the Territory are borne in mind during the search for a just and acceptable solution. Angola shares with the people of East Timor a common past of struggle against Portuguese colonialism. We will continue to give our utmost to the search for a just and acceptable solution. By sustaining an economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba for more than 30 years the United States of America has created a paradox within the reality of our times. The embargo is a set-back to international efforts to eliminate the last relics of the cold war. Angola therefore reiterates its opposition to this unilateral measure, whose extraterritorial impact is in violation of international norms of free trade and international law. Practice shows that constructive dialogue is the best solution for resolving differences, similar to that which occurred in reaching a solution to the problem of migration between the two countries. We think that it is up to the people of Cuba freely to decide their own destiny. Obviously, I cannot refrain from making reference to the situation in my own country, which will be of interest to many here. As is known, after long years of war Angola finally found the path to peace, starting with the signature of the Lusaka Protocol and the initial steps taken to implement its provisions. It is an agreement that complements the fundamental structure of the peace process established by the Bicesse Accords, which were signed with the mediation of the Government of Portugal. Since the signature of the Lusaka document in 1991 and the cease-fire agreed to in November last year, the situation in our country has evolved significantly, despite some negative aspects and obstacles that I shall mention shortly. Major offensive military actions have stopped, leading to the free movement of people and goods in many areas of the country under Government control. We are now seeing the return of thousands of displaced citizens to their areas of origin. In the political area, a direct dialogue has begun between the Government and UNITA, between His Excellency the President of Angola and Mr. Savimbi. This has facilitated the resolution of many problems related to the implementation of the Accords that were not resolved at Lusaka. In addition, the Government has taken important steps to strengthen the climate of mutual trust and to make reconciliation possible. Within this context, the Government supported a legislative initiative to modify the Constitution to accommodate the leader of UNITA as one of the two Vice-Presidents of the Republic. That significant political gesture, along with the future integration of UNITA members in a government of national unity, will create conditions for Angolans to enjoy a definitive and lasting peace in a climate of tolerance, free from hatreds or resentment. Despite those efforts, which my Government views as positive, we continue to be concerned by the excessive delays in the implementation of the peace process, whose most serious issue is the quartering and demobilization of UNITA forces, which has not yet been implemented as it should have been under the Lusaka Accords. This delay has resulted in some serious recent problems and incidents in some regions of the country. Such incidents do not at this time pose a serious threat to peace, but they are capable of creating dangerous focal points of tension that call into question the trust that is needed for full implementation of the Peace Accords. My Government would like to take this opportunity to express its gratitude for the work done by the United Nations Observer Mission in Angola. It has by and large assured respect for the provisions of the Peace Accords and has involved the presence of many countries represented here. We believe that the complete deployment of peace-keeping infantry units will make it possible better to control the implementation of the commitments made in Lusaka. The post-conflict phase in Angola will require urgent measures of a special economic and social nature in order to move the country rapidly out of the state of crisis, to 15 rebuild its productive and social infrastructures and to prevent a return to war, measures which must guarantee the social reintegration of thousands of military personnel, of whom some 150,000 are to be demobilized, and the return of refugees and internally displaced persons who are returning to their areas of origin. As I speak, a meeting is being held in Brussels between my country and the European Community to come up with an overall plan for national reconciliation. From this rostrum we should like to express our thanks to all countries that have assisted us and to all the United Nations agencies that have made it possible to organize this important meeting, the first round table meeting in Brussels. My Government has entered in earnest on to the task of achieving national reconciliation in our country. As we said earlier, a community rehabilitation programme has been created, in collaboration with the United Nations, to this end. It has a budget of $700 million that will be open to all donor countries in Brussels with a view, inter alia, to restoring in the shortest possible time basic production activity in the 18 provinces of the country. We are aware that the rapid recovery of the Angolan economy will depend largely on our success in implementing this programme and achieving peace and harmony in our country. It is an economy that saw its gross national product and per capita income decrease by one half as a consequence of war. Thus, we would like once again to request the international community to continue to lend assistance to Angola in order to achieve complete peace and reconciliation among all Angolans. We hope that can become a reality. With 15 October 1995 only a few days away — the first anniversary of the restoration of the democratic process in Haiti — I am pleased on behalf of the Government and people of Haiti to extend our greetings to the international community gathered here and our wishes for a long life to the United Nations, which is playing an ever more decisive role in the lives of our peoples. I should like to extend my warmest congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to the presidency of this fiftieth session of the General Assembly and extend my best wishes for his success in the exercise of his important duties. I should like also to pay a well-deserved tribute to His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, for the wisdom and ability he showed in conducting the work of the forty-ninth session. Allow me also to congratulate Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali on his effective management as Secretary-General of our Organization. His thorough knowledge of the issues and his proposals contained in the Agenda for Peace and the Agenda for Development have enabled him to make a significant contribution to the thinking on reforming the Organization with a view to making it more capable of facing the challenges of the twenty-first century. This session of the General Assembly coincides with our commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. More than any other, this session is destined to affect the history of our Organization because of the reflection this anniversary will certainly inspire with regard to its future. Fifty years have elapsed since 51 States, including my own, the Republic of Haiti, recognizing the absolute need to take collective action to work for peace, development and social progress, decided to found the United Nations. From its inception, the United Nations has been a focus of the aspirations and hopes of peoples world wide for a more peaceful future and a more promising tomorrow. Throughout the half century of its existence the Organization has exerted great efforts to achieve the goals set forth in the Charter. It has addressed a broad range of complex international problems and has, in many cases, been able to find a satisfactory solution to them. Thus, the United Nations has distinguished itself in the decisive role it has played in the decolonization process, in the strengthening of international security and in the restoration of peace in many parts of the world. It has also contributed to the development of international law. Through a series of global conferences, it has progressed towards an international consensus on such world problems as the environment, population, human rights, the status of women, the rights of the child, sustainable development and many other fundamental questions. Quite recently, United Nations activities in support of peace have taken on added scope with the increase in peace-keeping operations, some of which have met with outstanding success — operations in Cambodia, in El Salvador or in my own country, Haiti, where the joint action of the United Nations and the Organization of American States brought about a return of constitutional order and thereby provided eloquent testimony to this success. In that connection allow me on behalf of the people and Government of Haiti to express to the international community our gratitude for its support and its contribution to the restoration of the democratic process in Haiti. Thanks to you, Haiti now has a valid peace; political stability is on the verge of becoming a reality; and the security of Haitian society is a virtual fact. You helped us to emerge from a period of turbulence and to create in our country conditions favourable to peace and development, replacing the repression under which we had lived for the three years of coup d’état. Once again, I wish to express the deep gratitude of the Haitian people to the great family of the United Nations and to each of the nations that, in one way or another, provided support for the return of constitutional order. In this connection I should like to share with the Assembly the work our Government has accomplished since its restoration. One year after the return of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to Haiti, significant progress has been achieved in all spheres of national activity. The Government has made it a point of honour to draw the Assembly’s attention to the fact that the rights of all Haitians are scrupulously respected, freedom of expression and association is guaranteed, our institutions have resumed their normal functioning, the scheduled legislative and municipal elections have been carried out, and insecurity in both towns and countryside has noticeably diminished. In achieving that result the Government had to adopt measures that were vigorous but welcomed by the vast majority of the population. Among others, I would cite the dismantling of the corps of section heads and their auxiliaries, the demobilization of the armed forces pending approval by Parliament of their dissolution, the establishment of a new national police force in keeping with the wishes expressed in the 1987 Constitution, the creation of the National Magistrature School and the National Penitentiary Administration. All of those measures enjoyed the wholehearted assistance of the United Nations Mission in Haiti, which has been an invaluable partner in the restoration of democratic processes in Haiti. To strengthen the population’s confidence in the process of national reconciliation the Government has set up a National Commission for Truth and Justice to shed light on the atrocities committed during the three years of coup d’état, and that Commission has made great progress in its work. In addition, the Government has understood the need to go further in making reparations and combating the acceptance of impunity. In a Decree of 29 September 1995, the Government decided to allocate 20 per cent of the budget of the Ministry of Justice to victims of the coup d’état and to provide them with legal aid in bringing cases and prosecuting criminals. Such measures demonstrate a determination to put an end to impunity and to render justice to those to whom justice is due. Thus, we are firmly and irreversibly committed to democracy. There are still some problems to be solved, but no one can question the enormous progress accomplished since 15 October 1994. The struggle for the establishment of a democratic State in Haiti continues with ever-greater determination. However, there can be no viable democracy without sustained economic development. In Haiti, the link between democracy and development is fundamental, affecting as it does the very survival of our nation. In this connection the Haitian Government has given pride of place to two major approaches that define the national development policy, namely, regeneration of the space some 8 million inhabitants will share before the end of the century, and universal education. Natural resources — restored, revived and protected from continuous and uncoordinated overexploitation — must be managed by citizens, families and communities, 2 who shall learn to acquire know-how, to share knowledge, to spread information, and to tap both the vast, exciting stockpile of human knowledge and their own rich national culture. Through formal and non-formal education and by using all training and information technologies, we must meet the needs of our population, from elementary education to command of the high technology appropriate to our development. It is easy to see that, because of their importance, those two fundamental decisions will involve redefining all sectoral and non-sectoral policies and programmes. It is along these lines that we shall define policies of direct State management, fiscal, monetary, budgetary, public- investment, public-administration, public-enterprise management, credit and other policies, as well as policies that demand a degree of partnership with various sectors of the nation. When the conditions are met we will be able to engage in a process of restoring social balance through an improved sharing of national wealth. From there we shall move gradually to narrow the gap between the individual incomes of different groups. If the State uses the means and the tools at its disposal, especially fiscal and credit measures, it should be possible to hasten this movement. With the support of the international community our nation is working with high hopes to build a State based on law and to restore the fabric of our national economy. The example of Haiti, which I have just described, along with other successes achieved by the United Nations over the past 50 years, must not hide the reality of a world far from fully achieving the objectives of peace and social progress for all that were the dream of our forerunners. Despite the end of the cold war, which has lessened the probability of nuclear conflict, the Earth continues to be an arena of murderous conflicts that cause unspeakable suffering and vast humanitarian tragedies. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Rwanda, Burundi, Georgia and Liberia to name but a few, wars born for the most part of ethnic, religious or tribal antagonisms seem to resist any attempt at solution by the international community. It is true that there has been significant progress with respect to certain crises, such as those of the Middle East and Angola, and my Government joyfully welcomes this. But the persistence of such conflicts dampens our hopes for the establishment of a lasting peace. In that context, I want to recall the threat that mankind still faces from stockpiles of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. My delegation hopes that the nuclear-weapon States will keep the promises they made at the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), with respect to ridding the planet of nuclear weapons. The conclusion of a nuclear-test-ban treaty, next year we hope, would be an important step towards that goal. One of the ideas developed by the Secretary-General in his “Agenda for Peace” is that peace cannot be viable without development. It is acknowledged that a basic cause of instability and conflict throughout the world is increasingly flagrant social and economic disparities and the destitution afflicting a large part of mankind. In many speeches, the Secretary-General has said that the globalization of problems requires global solutions, whether in the sphere of the environment, migrations, development or international security. It is also time to adopt a comprehensive approach to the collateral effects of inevitable structural adjustment. A timid step in that direction was taken at the Halifax summit of the seven most highly industrialized countries, but what is needed most is greater participation by the countries of the South in the international economic system with a view to defusing the fearsome “social bomb” described at the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development. Let us remember how vulnerable our countries — especially small island States — are to natural disasters. This year, the Caribbean region has been the victim of an unprecedented number of hurricanes and tropical storms, which have caused significant damage to the infrastructure of a number of countries, which have seen years of effort shattered in a few hours or less. We extend our sympathy to our brother countries, and appeal to the international community to mobilize all the resources needed for their rehabilitation. Clearly, small island States are not equipped to deal with such situations. Perhaps we should consider a multilateral instrument that could limit their effects on the lives and property of affected populations. In that connection, we welcome the “White Berets” initiative inspired by Argentina, of which Haiti was the first beneficiary. In a world where the burden of globalization in all of its forms is increasingly being felt, the need for a new global contract is becoming more and more imperative, as a means to guarantee international peace and security. At the present time, many countries, including my own, are not able to satisfy the most elementary needs of the majority of their population. With the increasing 3 globalization of markets, and the political, economic, financial and cultural environment of the world, some countries are achieving a degree of success, while other countries continue to slip towards deterioration. The result is that millions of men, women and children are living in subhuman poverty, without access to health care or to adequate nutrition. This is a timely occasion for our Organization to play its role as an instrument of solidarity and international cooperation, in keeping with the mandate that was conferred on it 50 years ago. The implementation without delay of the Copenhagen decisions would be desirable. It should be of concern that, otherwise, these situations would spill over national borders and become a source of destabilization on a world-wide scale. In that regard, let us recall that sustainable development is the process that guarantees economic, social, political and cultural progress for the present population, and survival with happiness, dignity, peace, democracy and justice for future generations. To the Bretton Woods institutions, we would say that structural adjustment programmes are useful only to the extent that they lead to actual development programmes based on growth, full employment and equity, designed and carried out primarily for the benefit of the most disadvantaged classes of society. This awareness, which implies the will to put forward a new global contract, also prompts us, on behalf of the Haitian Government, to call upon the relevant forums, not only to define and articulate once and for all the areas of common interest in the various activities of the Organization, but also to seek out the ways and means to release the financial resources necessary to make the actions of our Organization more relevant. In the context of increased interdependence, which is characteristic of national policies — especially those of third world countries — the instruments used by international institutions and bilateral agreements determine any experience of a certain scope. For that reason, it is not just support that we are requesting from our partners: we are asking them to share with us the experience of addressing these challenges. Let them have a stake and involvement — which is possible and even probable — in the redefinition of their own instruments, which should change if those instruments are to be equal to the challenges which, for decades, have faced the world’s efforts to improve the world order. We can understand that changes in institutions of a certain size may give rise to much reluctance. And we ask: What are the risks to the international community if it engages in an experiment sufficiently limited not to frighten us, yet sufficiently important to test the desirability of extending it to more determining situations and bringing about a significant institutional change? Our Organization is at a decisive crossroads in its history. As we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of its founding, we are faced increasingly with the problem of the financing of the Organization’s budget for the operation of the system. From the experts’ reports, we have already learned that the core resources of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have shrunk by 15 per cent, and we have noted, with some fear, that contributions to various United Nations trust funds have been undergoing some decline for at least four years. In the long term, this process of regression in the area of financial contributions will constitute a definite threat to the various operations conducted by the United Nations system, whether it be in the field of peace-keeping or in the area of development activities properly speaking. These considerations prompt us to ask the question that concerns all of us on this fiftieth anniversary, the question of the reform of the United Nations system. At the dawn of a twenty-first century that is so filled with promise — but also so disturbing in certain respects — our Organization will increasingly be called upon to face certain major challenges in the fields of ecology, population, economics, information and the fight against organized crime. Faced with those daunting challenges, some of which are as yet unknown or unimagined, it is important to restructure and to strengthen the basic framework of this universal Organization. The strengthening of the United Nations structure should, we believe, be built around a legal, administrative and institutional reform. In that respect, my Government would ardently wish to see a reform of the Security Council, with respect both to its mode of operation, which should be more democratic, and to its membership, which should better reflect the diversity that characterizes the great family of the United Nations. In this regard, we invite all States to look into the most effective ways and means to cooperate with non- governmental organizations. We must acknowledge the fact that, increasingly, these organizations are serving as forums for reflection and initiatives in civil society and are becoming essential partners in the quest for a new world of more human and integrated development. 4 One area of great concern to the Government of Haiti is the precarious nature of the present situation of many refugees, especially women and unaccompanied children, who deserve special attention. Also, I take this opportunity to state our increasingly resolute opposition to any forced repatriation of refugees in violation of international legal instruments that govern this question, including the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol. Discriminatory policies, racism and xenophobia will only inflame an already tragic situation which has long troubled our conscience. It is time for barbarism to give way to civilization and for respect for human rights to be enjoyed by all, men and women, without distinction. The Government of the Republic of Haiti supports the plan to create an international criminal court to give effect to the principle of individual criminal responsibility in cases of serious and unacceptable violations of human rights. My Government is deeply alarmed at the scale of the illicit production of, trafficking in and abuse of narcotics around the world. In order to protect ourselves against this scourge, it calls on producer and consumer States, transit countries and those laundering drug money to give their full support to the fight against this evil. Since the end of the cold war, a war that actually was only cold on the territories of the great Powers, the limited conflicts that seemed to go along with the inherent situation there have multiplied constantly. We must recognize that only the pretexts have changed. The real reasons for those conflicts, we repeat, are the maintenance of an excessively profitable trade in conventional weapons. Today, the standing of a nation is not measured, and should no longer be measured, by its economic power or its military arsenal. Today, a great nation must apply itself to solving the problems of its people and those of mankind as a whole. In 1945, 51 States created the United Nations, whose intrinsic purpose was to maintain international peace and security and to promote the economic development of all its Members. Fifty years later, as we take stock, the changes that have taken place in the international arena only bear out the validity of these ideals of the founding fathers. The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is an occasion for us to recognize the capacities of this Organization and the need to reform it in order to turn it into an increasingly effective instrument that can face the challenges of the twenty-first century to build a better world. It is my pleasure at the outset to express my congratulations to Mr. Freitas do Amaral personally, and to his friendly country, Portugal, upon his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. We are confident that his experience, wisdom and statesmanship will contribute to the success of this session’s deliberations. May I assure him of the cooperation of the Syrian delegation in achieving the desired objectives. May I also extend the expression of our thanks and appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, for his untiring efforts during his presidency of the previous session. On this occasion, we should like to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for his efforts to enhance the standing and role of the United Nations and to focus the international community’s attention on the most outstanding issues of our times. This session of the General Assembly has great significance in the life of the United Nations, as it coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of this international Organization which remains, notwithstanding any criticisms, an unequalled organization in the history of international relations. It is the house under whose roof the representatives of all the world’s States meet each year: friends and foes, adversaries and allies, on the basis of commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, foremost among which are: maintenance of international peace and security; respect for the fundamental rights of men and of States, both small and large; affirmation of equality under those rights; non-interference in the internal affairs of States, and standing up to aggression in accordance with the principles of justice and international law. The problem facing the United Nations, in our belief, does not lie in the purposes and principles of the Charter, but rather in the decision-making mechanism in the United Nations and in the selective manner of implementing those decisions. Furthermore, the grave financial crisis afflicting this international Organization is in fact but the reflection of a political crisis fundamentally centred on the identity of the United Nations and its role in the post-cold- war period. The question that arises in this context is: does this international Organization truly represent the aspirations of its Members’ peoples, as stated in the preamble of its Charter, namely, “We the peoples of the United Nations”? Is it not surprising to hear even the State with the largest population and the largest surface area complain, despite its permanent membership in the Security Council, of interference in its internal affairs? Given such a situation, will it be feasible to introduce meaningful democratic reforms of the United Nations structure that would be acceptable and agreeable to the Organization’s Member States, both large and small, rich and poor, of the North or of the South? Or is 15 it that the democracy of the majority by which national decisions are taken is not valid for decision-making in the United Nations or in international relations? In any case, we do not live in an ideal world, even if we aspire after such a world. We are convinced that it is essential to promote constructive international dialogue and cooperation if we are to achieve the introduction of reforms that, both in substance and in form, would realize the aspirations of Member States and address the issues and needs of developing countries. Top of the list of those needs is the alleviation of the developing countries’ debt burdens, encouraging investments in their economies, opening markets to their products and lifting any restrictions on the transfer to them of sophisticated and nuclear technologies for peaceful purposes. Over and above all this, what the developing countries need is that their political, humanitarian and cultural issues should be dealt with by dialogue on a basis of mutual respect and non-interference in their internal affairs. That indeed would be the most appropriate and correct means of laying the foundations of an international cooperation with a human face, which would guarantee the interests of all and, thereby, lead to a more secure, stable and prosperous world. The changes which the world has been witnessing in the international area since the beginning of the 1990s, no matter how tremendous their impact and their results could be, will never alter the fundamental principles and values that humanity has struggled to attain and adhere to since the dawn of history. Right cannot be turned around overnight to become wrong, just exactly as equality cannot be turned around to become hegemony, racism cannot be made a virtue and the occupation of the land of others by force cannot be legitimized. We live in a region which is the birthplace of the three revealed religions and of human civilizations. Our roots in the region go very deep. We read, hear and, indeed, feel how Israel attempts to falsify the history and geography of this region as well as the achievements of its peoples. We see how it attempts to mislead public opinion into the conviction that its democracy and its laws shall determine the fate of the occupied Arab territories, and not the principles of international law and the resolutions of the United Nations. Those resolutions consider as null and void Israel’s annexation of Al-Quds and the application of its laws to the Golan, and require Israel to withdraw from all the occupied Arab territories in order for a just and comprehensive peace to be achieved in the region. The fact that Israel does not heed the resolutions of the United Nations, regardless of the negotiations that have been going on for four years, is an act of defiance not only vis-à-vis the Arabs, but also of the entire international community and, especially, of the Security Council and its relevant resolutions. The latest developments in the peace process have shown that Israel’s rulers are not interested in seeking a genuine, just and comprehensive peace that would put an end to strife, occupation and colonial settlement and guarantee security and stability to all. Their main concern has been to extract from those who negotiate with them signatures on hundreds of pages and maps which shackle the Palestinian people, after all the great sacrifices it has made, and thrust that people on an endless road of loss and agony, not on any road that would lead to liberation and independence. In our view, agreements of this type, which will lead to yet another endless series of negotiations and agreements, will never pass the test of the final solution, simply because each and every one of them carries within it the seeds of tension and conflict. Since the Oslo agreement, Syria has made it clear, from this rostrum, that it neither supports nor seeks to obstruct such agreements. Today, while we reiterate this position, we must point out that if such agreements are used to cause harm to Syria’s national and pan-Arab interests and rights, we shall be compelled to reconsider that position. The American initiative, on the basis of which the Madrid Conference was convened, asserted that its aim was to achieve a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the principle of land for peace. Furthermore, among the guarantees given to Syria by the United States of America was that the United States would not agree to the annexation by Israel of one single inch of the Golan territory occupied in 1967. It was on that basis that Syria opened the door of peace in the Madrid Conference. Syria will continue to hold fast to these foundations, which in substance signify a continuing American commitment to Syria’s fundamental rights and interests. The force of this American commitment is not altered by the deviation by some Arab parties from the Madrid formula, whose staunchest advocate ought to be the United States, a sponsor of the Conference. 16 Contrary to Israel’s claims, the Madrid formula and the American initiative did not call for secret negotiations and did not provide for a specified level of negotiators. Had it been otherwise, there would have been no need whatsoever to hold the Madrid Conference. Syria and the Arab States expect the United States, as a sponsor of the peace process, to fulfil its commitments towards Syria and Lebanon and to seek to eliminate the obstacles that Israel continues to put on the road to a just and comprehensive peace in the region that would lead to Israel’s complete withdrawal from the Golan to the line of 4 June 1967 and also from Southern Lebanon, in implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). Syria reaffirms its commitment to peace on the basis of the foundations which launched the peace process and on no other bases or other formulae, whose only aim would be to satisfy Israel’s arrogance and entrench its hegemony and not to bring to the peoples of the region the security, stability and dignity after which they aspire. Israel can fool some people some of the time, but it cannot fool all people all the time. The negotiations between Syria and Israel over the past four years have shown that Israel wishes to negotiate only for the purpose of equivocating and backpedalling from the requirements of peace or for the purpose of using the negotiations as a means of imposing its conditions, which contradict the letter and spirit of the relevant Security Council resolutions. This is the real reason why the negotiations on the Syrian track have faltered. In any case, a false peace will never find its way into any Syrian home, regardless of the challenges and the obstacles created by Israel. All our Syrian citizens know that Arabs, Muslims and all peoples who put their faith in justice and peace stand steadfastly by Syria and its leader in the battle for a just and comprehensive peace, a genuine peace that the people can embrace with dignity. Armed conflicts and devastating wars continue to rage in various parts of the world. Those conflicts which inflict great human and material losses on the peoples of the States they afflict have begun to cast lengthening dark shadows on regional and world peace and stability. The indescribable suffering of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina makes it necessary for the international community to intensify efforts to achieve a just settlement that would guarantee the unity and territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and safeguard the security and stability of the Balkan region. Syria reaffirms its attachment to safeguarding the unity of the territory and people of Iraq and its rejection of any attempt at dividing Iraq or at interfering in its internal affairs. Syria believes that a speedy implementation by the Iraqi Government of the remaining Security Council resolutions, side by side with resolving the issue of Kuwaiti prisoners, would facilitate working for lifting the embargo and mitigating the suffering of the brotherly Iraqi people. Syria calls also for responding to the initiative of the League of Arab States regarding the Lockerbie crisis. This initiative would lead to a solution to the crisis and thereby put an end to the embargo imposed on brotherly Libya. Syria hopes that a peaceful solution will be reached to the three-island crisis between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran, through direct dialogue, in the interests of cooperation and good- neighbourliness between the two countries. Settlement of the issue will guarantee the rights of both parties and uphold the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the States of the region. Syria calls on all the warring factions in Somalia to end the infighting and to overcome their differences in the interests of national reconciliation, which is indispensable for restoring security and stability to that country and for stimulating efforts to reconstruct the country and restore its Arab and international role. My country, Syria, had the honour of participating in the founding of this international Organization, whose fiftieth anniversary is now being celebrated. While the pages of history mention other organizations which did not rise to the expectations of the world’s peoples, the survival of our organization for the past five decades is testimony to the loftiness of the purposes and principles of its Charter. Despite the conflicts and challenges faced by today’s world, we look to the future with optimism. History does not march backwards and every stage of development and change cannot but be better than the one before. Wars that have flared up in more than one part of the world cannot but recede gradually, then peter out and exist no more. This is our hope. Peace which is not achieved today will dawn tomorrow. This is what we shall try to achieve 17 looking forward to a better life of justice and humaneness in that it will be built on cooperation between our nations in the political, economic and cultural fields, in the interests of all mankind. Let us hope that the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations will be a bright beacon of change in the history of mankind. Like previous speakers, I should like to convey to the President of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly our warmest congratulations on his election to the presidency of the Assembly. As a representative of a country close to us, Portugal, he will, I am certain, discharge skilfully and effectively his difficult responsibilities in leading our deliberations. The President of our Council, Mr. Javier Solana, has recently explained the position of the European Union on the work of the United Nations and on the major challenges it is called upon to face. Those are also the views of my delegation. I welcome the promising prospects opening up in the Balkans and the Middle East. As for Chechnya, I must, on the other hand, regret that the parties have been lagging behind in restoring peace to that sorely tried region in the past year. In the former Yugoslavia, dramatic developments in recent months have changed substantially the nature of the conflict there. After years of civil war, atrocities and “ethnic cleansing”, we now see a glimmer of hope emerging. I welcome the recent agreements in Geneva between the warring parties, as well as that on the opening up of Sarajevo, which was arrived at thanks to the mediation efforts and the commitment of the American special envoy, Mr. Richard Holbrooke. I am, however, not unaware of the fact that negotiations on a comprehensive settlement will be lengthy and that its implementation will be a difficult task. The Government of Luxembourg is prepared to take part in the reconstruction effort as long as certain conditions are met: the effective implementation of a comprehensive settlement, the implementation of a disarmament plan and respect for human rights and for minorities, including the right of return. In the Middle East, negotiations for the conclusion of a second agreement on the autonomy of the occupied territories have just been concluded. Mr. Rabin and Mr. Peres, as well as Mr. Arafat, have shown exemplary tenacity and political will, and they deserve our warmest congratulations. We are all called upon to help in the success of this vast endeavour for peace now under way. My Government has launched an important action for cooperation in development in the occupied territories. It will also send observers to the forthcoming elections, which will be the decisive test for the creation of a civil and democratic society. My country notes with satisfaction the indefinite extension last May of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). It appeals urgently to the nuclear-weapon Powers to renounce any new testing and to comply with the current moratorium. Such a decision would help to create a climate favourable to the conclusion in 1996 of a global treaty on the banning of nuclear testing, one which is suitably verifiable. The Fourth World Conference on Women has just concluded in Beijing. My Government commends the progress achieved at that Conference. It hails the fact that, for the first time, the rights of women are recognized as an integral and indivisible part of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. In particular, we have in mind the recognition of the right of all women to control their sexual health and their access, on an equal footing, to economic resources. The “right to be different” claimed by religious fundamentalists should not hamper the implementation of these new principles. The events of some time ago led us to believe that the old bipolar world was a thing of the past and that a new world order was automatically about to succeed it. Unfortunately, reality has not confirmed that hope. The multipolar world in which we live has not at all become more unified, nor more supportive, nor safer. Ethnic conflicts have broken out in many parts of the world. Narrow-minded nationalism has gained adherents, and political and religious intolerance is spreading. We thought that with increased international cooperation, the role of multinational organizations would increase. This has not always been the case. Often, the role of our Organization has been ill perceived or badly presented to the public. 15 In many cases, the image given of the United Nations seems unfair. It does not take into account the many constraints under which the United Nations functions. Very often, the critics are aiming at the wrong target, forgetting that it is Member States that prevent the United Nations either from taking decisions or by acting, by denying it the necessary resources. The political commitment of Member States is often not commensurate with the ever-growing responsibilities of the United Nations. Our Organization must then today come to grips with a new situation arising from the fact that most current conflicts take place within the borders of a single State, and no longer pit States against each other. Intervention constitutes an interference that only the United Nations can legitimize. These ethnic or religious conflicts, whose origins derive from economic and social issues, are the result not only of regular armies, but of militias and clans. The civilian population is often the first victim, if not the main target. The missions demanded of the United Nations are also becoming more and more complex, difficult and dangerous. The United Nations is called upon to maintain peace, but often there is no peace to keep. The United Nations has none the less had a number of successes which have been important but which the media have tended to minimize, be they in Namibia, Cambodia, El Salvador, Mozambique or Haiti. In those countries, the United Nations has helped peoples to overcome years of civil war and to channel their energies into building democratic nations. These positive and courageous actions contrast with other, rather timid reactions to conflicts that threaten the lives of thousands of civilians and expose them to terrible violations of their basic rights. This was the case in Rwanda and was long also the case in the former Yugoslavia, even if the international community has provided substantial humanitarian assistance and helped to ease the suffering of the victims. But as long as the United Nations does not adopt a more defined and resolute approach that would allow it to prevent such catastrophes, the effectiveness and credibility of our Organization run the risk of being called into question. As I have just emphasized with regard to the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia, we must learn from our failures and near-successes. My country encourages efforts to provide the United Nations with its own rapid- reaction capacity. But the Organization should also determine whether increased cooperation with specialized regional organizations, such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or the European Union, might not in certain cases be both more effective and more economical. At any rate, any new United Nations operation should be established only on the basis of a military appraisal as well. Furthermore, the United Nations should see to it that the commanders of an operation are given sufficient military resources and clear, consistent political guidelines. Our era has witnessed spectacular developments at the national level. The concept of the State has been called into question as both a mechanism for solving national problems and a basic element of the international system. States find themselves increasingly threatened with disintegration, their citizens seeking to escape the oppression of rigid structures and demanding to become part of ever more narrowly defined ethnic groups. In such a context, democracy would seem to be the best means of ensuring the viability of the State as manager of public affairs and guarantor of progress. At the national level, democracy provides the stability necessary for peace by ensuring respect for human rights and allowing the population to express its will. At the regional level, as in Europe, it involves States, large and small, in joint decision-making and contributes to development by encouraging cooperation and fostering peace. Democratic States do not war with each other. It is thus an important duty of the international community to promote democracy among and within States by helping them to build a democratic system; by providing them with logistical and technical support for the organization of free elections; by promoting the creation of a public sector to guarantee the proper management of State affairs; and by providing the various sectors of civil society with the resources to consolidate the bases of democracy. The Government of Luxembourg provides tangible support to the activities of our Organization in this sphere. In our view, the promotion of human rights is another priority area. In particular, the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child represents a large step forward. This Convention is a valuable instrument 16 that helps to protect children from physical and mental abuse. It is therefore essential for Governments that have ratified the Convention to adopt and implement the necessary national legislation. The General Assembly has initiated international activity on behalf of millions of street children. My Government proposes that a similar effort be undertaken to assist millions of children who work by necessity or even compulsion. It is unacceptable, indeed intolerable, that at the end of the twentieth century more than a billion people live in abject poverty and almost 1.5 billion men, women and children lack sufficient food and drinking water and have no access to education or the most elementary health care. To be sure, certain parts of the South today are enjoying remarkable development. But others, on the African continent in particular, seem to have been left behind by the progress from which the world economy as a whole has benefited. It is also alarming that inequalities both within countries and between the countries of the South and the North are growing rather than shrinking, and that the richest fifth of mankind owns more than four-fifths of the world’s social product while the poorest fifth must content itself with 1.4 per cent. As concerns the developing countries, we have a duty to be supportive. This support should supplement and strengthen the efforts which these countries must undertake at the national level. Luxembourg has doubled its development assistance in just a few years. It has committed itself to the goal of achieving 0.7 per cent in official development assistance before the end of the century. It would also like to see new progress achieved in reducing the debt that continues to paralyse the development of many developing countries. Our Organization must play a central role as the major institution for international cooperation at the global level. This was in fact envisaged by our Charter. The Preamble stresses the need to promote “the economic and social advancement of all peoples” and thereby makes development one of the principal goals of our Organization. Fifty years after the creation of the United Nations, we believe that the time has come to begin an in-depth review of the activities and structures of the Organization in the economic and social spheres, taking into account the far- reaching changes that have occurred and the growing globalization of problems. This review should take cognizance of the fact that countries are being faced with new phenomena that are often diverse but are alike in reaching beyond national borders. I am thinking, inter alia, of such health problems as AIDS or of such environmental problems as the depletion of the ozone layer and global warming. There are also such social phenomena as population growth, the pressure of migration, the problem of refugees, and violations of human rights. Other trans-border issues that are of increasing concern are drug trafficking, and new forms of violence and crime and even international terrorism. We need an effective system built on these realities and better able to take into account the interests of all mankind, the poorest in particular. Such a system should be able to define integrated policies and lay down clear, coherent guidelines. Cooperation between international financial institutions and the United Nations system should be organized with this in view. Only the United Nations has the necessary legitimacy and authority for such reform. The work of renewal and clarification that has begun with the Agenda for Development is a natural component of this global perspective. My country, together with its partners in the European Union, intends to make an active contribution to the discussion to be held on this subject. On the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, several focus groups have considered the challenges facing humanity and the ability of the United Nations to meet them. In particular, I would refer to the Carlsson- Ramphal Commission, which submitted the report entitled “On Global Governance”, and an independent working group on the future of the United Nations which the Secretary-General himself established and which delivered the results of its study last June. These two reports set forth a number of potential reforms and make concrete proposals, including one to create an economic security council. I believe that these proposals are a valuable source of inspiration and make an important contribution to the reform work that should be pursued and intensified. I attach great importance to the consideration of these reports, which our Assembly has entrusted to the high- level Working Group recently set up in the framework of the strengthening of the United Nations system. Before concluding I should like to deal with two issues concerning the reform process begun by the Organization — expanding the Security Council, and 17 putting the finances of the United Nations on a sound footing. The Security Council today is invested with enormous responsibilities. Its decisions commit all Member States and have a decisive impact on the fate of millions of human beings. The Security Council must therefore reflect as faithfully as possible the determination of the international community as a whole. A Security Council more representative of today’s world would strengthen the legitimacy of its actions and facilitate the implementation of its decisions. My Government is in favour of a balanced increase that would involve the admission to the Council of new permanent and non-permanent members from both the North and the South. In particular we would like permanent-member status to be acknowledged for economic Powers whose positive role in international affairs has long been recognized. The improved representativeness of the Security Council cannot be achieved only by remaking its membership: it also requires greater transparency in its decision-making processes. Dialogue with other Members of the Organization, especially those countries that contribute troops for peace-keeping operations, must be enhanced. Finally, the time has come to delete from the Charter references to “enemy States” which have not existed for a long time now. Each and every one of us is aware of the seriousness of the financial crisis that the Organization faces. It results not only from sums disbursed, which are relatively speaking very modest if we compare them to sums invested elsewhere. It results essentially from the failure of Member States which fulfil inadequately, if at all, their obligation to pay their contributions to the budget of the Organization. Each and every State is bound under the Charter to pay its contributions on time and in full. The Luxembourg Government is in favour of a monitoring mechanism that would ensure the proper management of the United Nations system. On the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, Member States should endeavour to define an approach that could confer on the Organization new legitimacy and credibility for the next century. This will succeed only if they involve in this effort representatives of civil society and, in particular, those of non-governmental organizations. But in the final analysis the proper functioning and efficiency of the United Nations depend first and foremost on the political support that Member States, especially the most powerful, give to multilateralism, as well as the political, military and financial resources they are prepared to make available to international organizations. Fifty years ago, learning the lessons of two world wars, which in the space of one human generation had brought unspeakable suffering to mankind, people of good will, dedicated to peace and justice and determined to preserve future generations from such horrors, founded the United Nations. To ensure peace, justice and equality; to promote collective security and peaceful coexistence; to encourage economic and social progress for nations and peoples through international cooperation; to develop and promote respect for the rights of man and of peoples, in greater freedom and without discrimination: these, inter alia, were the main objectives of the founders of the United Nations. What lofty goals! And now the time has come when we have an opportunity to review what our common Organization has achieved. This is a difficult but uplifting task, and the big question is whether the objectives have been attained. Before going any further, however, Sir, on behalf of the President of the Togolese Republic, His Excellency General Gnassingbé Eyadema, and the Government and people of Togo, and on my own behalf, I extend our warmest congratulations on your magnificent election to the important post of President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. The community of the United Nations, in unanimously choosing you to lead our work at this historic session, pays tribute to you and to your qualities as an experienced diplomat and also pays a well- deserved tribute to your beautiful country, Portugal, with which Togo is proud of having excellent and fruitful relations of friendship and cooperation. We also congratulate the other members of the General Committee. In our view, their experience and your mastery of international affairs augur well for the success of our work. We assure you of the full cooperation of the Togolese delegation to that end. I should also like to extend the Togolese Government’s greatest appreciation to your distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, who presided so adroitly and competently over the work of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. This honour done to his country and also to Africa is particularly encouraging. I should like to say once again how sincerely we admire him. I am also pleased to extend our warmest congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his tireless and unending efforts to ensure that the United Nations continues to flourish and to preserve peace and security in the world. This session is an event in itself, coinciding as it does with the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. A half century has passed, and the various events that have marked the life of the Organization have altered neither the purposes nor the principles of its Charter, which must preserve all its vitality and continue to be the legal and moral basis for present-day international relations. My delegation would like to pay a tribute to all those whose imagination, creative spirit and intelligence led to the drafting of the provisions of the 111 Articles of the Charter. Their knowledge and ability helped to preserve the world from a third world war, which, in this age of increasingly devastating nuclear weapons, would have been fatal to the entire world, including the owners of the weapons. 14 In its daily search to ensure the wellbeing of peoples, the Organization has adopted and implemented strategies to respond to world concerns. In this connection, the Agenda for Peace and the forthcoming Agenda for Development bear witness to the United Nations resolve to realize its noble ideals. My delegation believes that the fiftieth session should give serious consideration to the ways to work out the new approaches that are needed if the Organization is to go forward on solid and increasingly coherent bases in its search for viable and lasting solutions to problems of peace, security and development that pose a daily challenge to the international community. What is important at this session is the lessons we can learn from United Nations activities over the past 50 years that will help us to deal with the enormous challenges the third millennium will bring us. The aspirations of peoples to participate even more actively in the management of world affairs is evident in every country. My country, like so many others on the African continent, has been buffeted by the winds of freedom and democracy. After more than three turbulent years fraught with misunderstandings among our national political figures concerning the stakes involved in democratization, Togo has now completed its transitional period towards democracy and the multiparty system. This session affords me an opportunity to say that Togo has regained its stability and its customary peace and quiet and that our Government is now actively working to strengthen the bases for a State of law. Eager to promote national unity, the Togolese authorities are continuing to take all possible steps to establish a climate of peace, fraternity and concord. At their initiative, on 14 December 1994 the National Assembly adopted a law of general amnesty for those responsible for the acts of aggression of 25 March 1993 and 5 and 6 January 1994. Today, peace and order have been restored, for the people of Togo have been able to surmount their opposing views and achieve reconciliation. They have understood that democratization is a long-term undertaking, one that must be based on the historical, social and cultural realities of a country if it is to be effective and promote political stability, economic development and social justice. Today, the collective effort to restore our national economy is continuing without interruption and all the people of Togo are determined to give of their best in the rebuilding of what they hold most dear, their homeland Togo, in order to restore its reputation and ensure its active participation in the concert of nations. Given the still fragile nature of our economy, and in order to ensure the strengthening of democracy, political stability and social unity, Togo calls upon the international community to give its strong support to the efforts our Government is undertaking to achieve the country’s total recovery. As I said earlier, the founding of the United Nations was a response to the yearning of the peoples of the world to live in peace, which is a prerequisite for progress. Today, however, there is still a long road to travel in the attainment of that peace, the principal goal of the United Nations, for the world is still experiencing horrible upheavals and intolerance that daily threaten the hope of our peoples to live in a peaceful and secure world. Indeed, uncertainty, anxiety and despair still haunt thousands of people, principally because of continuing fratricidal conflicts and poverty. Rivalry among neighbours, fanaticism and ethnic tensions continue inexorably to stoke the fires of discord and create armed conflicts, with all their accompanying horrors. In Africa, the conflicts in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Somalia and the situations in Rwanda, Burundi and Angola continue to present challenges to the international community and to call into question its ability effectively to ensure international peace and security. With regard to the conflict in Liberia, which is now being resolved, my country welcomes the signing of a new Agreement on 19 August 1995 in Abuja under the aegis of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and the installation of the State Council and Transitional Government pursuant to that Agreement. Togo calls upon its brothers in Liberia to shoulder their responsibilities to ensure the sincere and full implementation of that Agreement. We urge them to do all they can to guarantee the cease-fire, support the new transition institutions and contribute in good faith to disarmament with a view to establishing an environment favourable to the organization of the general open elections called for in the Agreement. While the international community is witnessing a nascent improvement of the situation in Liberia, the war waged in neighbouring Sierra Leone by the Revolutionary 15 United Front (RUF) is continuing, with all its accompanying misery. My delegation would remind our brothers in Sierra Leone that experience continues to prove the weapons do not provide lasting solutions to any problem, no matter what. Turning to Somalia, my delegation deeply regrets that no appreciable progress has been made since the last session. Unfortunately, we are forced to state that despite the relative calm there, Somalia has become a country where national reconciliation and the establishment of a Government based on broad consensus are still hypothetical owing to fluctuating allegiances among the clans. That situation continues to contribute to the eruption of violence and hinders the advent of peace to that country. My Government therefore urgently appeals once again to our brothers in Somalia to enter into a true and solid process of national reconciliation, the sole way to ensure viable peace and establish a Somali State that the international community would regard as representative. In Rwanda, the situation following last year’s massacres is still disturbing owing to the insecurity and intolerance that make peace and stability fragile, jeopardize the return of refugees and threaten to embroil the entire subregion. Given the climate there it is imperative for the Rwandese Government to persevere on the courageous path of national reconciliation so that the country may regain its unity and the political stability essential to its reconstruction. The international community must also commit itself to lending real assistance to Rwanda’s efforts to establish better conditions that will encourage the repatriation of refugees to their country of origin. In the neighbouring country of Burundi the no-war, no-peace situation is still a matter of concern to my country. Those involved in Burundi’s political life must renounce all acts of violence of any kind and demonstrate wisdom and mutual acceptance in seeking solutions to the problems facing them. In the same spirit, my delegation urgently appeals to all the children of Burundi to adhere fully to the Agreement of Government signed on 10 September 1994 and to do everything they can to implement that Agreement in the interests of peace and the people of Burundi. We believe that they must also try to accept the initiatives of the Central Conflict Prevention, Handling Management and Settlement Mechanism of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), which is attempting to organize a round- table meeting of the parties involved in the Burundi crisis. Here too, the international community must continue to support Burundi so as to enable it to find peace as soon as possible and to continue its development. Turning to the situation in Angola, the Togolese Government welcomes the resumption of the dialogue between President José Eduardo Dos Santos and the leader of UNITA, Mr. Jonas Savimbi. We noted with great satisfaction the positive evolution of the peace process under way as a result of the Lusaka peace agreement. We welcome the two meetings that took place this year, and we see in them the firm resolve of our Angolan brothers to overcome their differences and set about the irreversible creation of an atmosphere of understanding which alone can foster peace and national harmony. My delegation greatly appreciates the active role that the United Nations continues to play in the resolution of that conflict, and we would call on the Secretary-General to speed up the deployment of the forces to be made available to the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III). In Europe, despite diplomatic efforts to find a definitive settlement of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, the situation there remains a source of profound concern to all peace-loving countries. My Government notes with regret that, in spite of many measures taken by the United Nations, the state of war in that part of Europe persists, continuing to claim countless victims and give rise to flows of refugees and displaced persons. Togo believes that the international community must become more deeply involved in order to stem, if not halt, the tide of massive destruction advancing before our eyes. In the view of my delegation, it is time for the Serb, Croat and Bosniac leaders to give up the idea of acquiring territory by force and to seek a definitive solution to the conflict through negotiations, with a view to ensuring an irreversible, comprehensive and just solution that would guarantee sovereignty and territorial integrity to all the States of the former Yugoslavia within internationally recognized borders. 16 The recent positive developments in the Middle East, marked essentially by the adoption of a timetable for the second phase of the withdrawal of Israeli troops from Palestinian cities and the transfer of new powers to the Palestinian Authority, give my delegation grounds for satisfaction. We regard these recently concluded agreements as a great achievement, a decisive step towards the establishment of a Palestinian State. Togo congratulates the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority for the courage, commitment and initiative they have shown in implementing the Declaration of Principles and the subsequent agreements despite the many dangers that beset the path to peace. We urge them to continue the quest for a settlement of the question of Palestine through negotiations, the path they have chosen, since true and lasting peace unquestionably involves dialogue. We would appeal to the good will of the international community to live up to its commitments by providing the Palestinian Authority with the necessary economic and social assistance for the development of Gaza and Jericho. With regard to the Golan, my delegation would urge Israel and Syria to demonstrate far-sightedness, good will and mutual understanding so as to arrive as quickly as possible at an agreement that could bring a just and lasting peace to the Middle East region. Turning to Asia, Togo welcomes the establishment at various levels of dialogue aimed at peaceful coexistence, and trusts that this political will be maintained. These various hotbeds of tension, which jeopardize the existence of mankind and which my delegation has just briefly described, are a challenge to our collective conscience and, first and foremost, to the United Nations, the only world structure that can ensure universal peace and security. On the eve of the second half of its first century, it behoves our Organization to mobilize to combat the evils afflicting the world and that make it vulnerable. That task must be one of our highest priorities if we want to leave to future generations a healthy world based on respect for human dignity, love and justice. To attain this prime objective, which is to prevent conflicts from erupting or from continuing indefinitely, prevention must increasingly feature in the forefront of the measures taken by our Organization in favour of peace, for it is always better to prevent war than to try to end it. This justifies the great importance we attach to preventive diplomacy. My delegation believes that the various peace- keeping operations being conducted in countries riven by conflict must be accompanied and supported by the parallel and systematic establishment of mechanisms for a peaceful settlement. The measures provided for in Chapter VI of the Charter must be increasingly employed to this end. “An Agenda for Peace” can achieve its full import only if the United Nations, in its quest for peace, resorts to diplomatic procedures as a means of settling disputes. The objectives of peace and security that we seek must necessarily also involve curbing the proliferation of weapons of all kinds. General and complete disarmament is and has for many years been one of the main objectives of the United Nations, whose attainment would bring peace, stability and well-being for all. The energy with which we pursue this goal must be maintained and, indeed, increased, if the hopes of mankind to avoid a new holocaust are to be fulfilled. To that end, my delegation believes that we must continue to encourage a tangible reduction in the nuclear threat, the elimination of special fissile materials and the conversion of nuclear installations for solely peaceful purposes. All these overarching tasks require the unconditional support of all States, and particularly nuclear-weapon States, so that we can use the resources made available through disarmament for development. Convinced of the need to free our continent from nuclear weapons, the African countries have concluded their consideration of the text of the Pelindaba treaty that would establish Africa as a nuclear-weapon-free zone. This instrument, prepared pursuant to the relevant Declaration of the Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), will soon be signed in Egypt. My country welcomes this development as opening the way for the denuclearization of Africa, and contributing to the international trend towards non- proliferation. My delegation sees in the recent indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and in the negotiations now under way in the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, 17 the resolve of the international community to achieve nuclear non-proliferation and to eliminate other types of weapons of mass destruction. With regard to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in particular, Togo believes that its indefinite extension is not an end in itself. We have to do everything possible to ensure that it responds to the aspirations of all the parties. In general terms, Togo proclaims its deep commitment to the various measures advocated by the United Nations for the control of conventional weapons at the regional and subregional levels. We continue to support all initiatives that can facilitate disarmament and arms limitation, for all these measures can help to maintain international peace and security. Within the context of the items relating to disarmament, my delegation would recall the urgent need to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations Regional Centres for Peace and Disarmament. Designed to promote peace and disarmament in various regions, these Centres need financing to function and to carry out their programmes of activities in order to attain the goals for which they were established. This is particularly true of the Centre for Africa, which has its headquarters in my country. I would therefore appeal to the good will of all Member States to support this Centre by providing it with the help and assistance it needs to carry out its activities and to contribute to the maintenance and strengthening of the peace and security which Africa so sorely needs to ensure its economic and social development. The Charter which we adopted in 1945 states in its Preamble that the peoples of the United Nations are determined to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. Fifty years later, we must assess the impact of action taken along the way to resolve the enormous problems of development. It is clear that serious efforts are made every day to eliminate poverty, hunger, malnutrition, disease and illiteracy. And yet, despite the considerable input of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, we must note that many peoples, particularly in the developing countries, still live in a state of great deprivation and are exposed to all manner of scourges. In other words, the situation in those countries is tragic: more than half a billion human beings live in abject poverty; more than 180 million children suffer serious malnutrition; and more than 1.5 billion individuals have no access to primary health care. All this, as can be imagined, leads to the death of almost 3 million children every year. This bitter truth is the result of the injustice and inequality that characterize international cooperation relations. In the absence of real understanding and solidarity on the part of Member States, the poorest continue to suffer and the well-off grow ever more opulent. Distortions in economic relations between North and South do not reflect the spirit of our Charter. For decades now, the developing countries have called for the establishment of a new, more just and equitable international economic order, but their concerns are not taken duly into account. In this regard, it would not be overstating matters to recall that the continued drop in our commodity prices; the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade; the problems relating to access for products from developing countries in general, and African countries in particular, to world markets; and the foreign debt burden are all obstacles that must be removed if we are to accelerate and strengthen the process of sustainable development. It is important therefore that our partners in the industrialized countries should try harder to understand our problems in order that they may be better able to support our efforts. This multifaceted support must seek to ensure remunerative prices for our commodities and the necessary technological support for processing these commodities so as to ensure access for our products to international markets. To that end, the international community must provide special assistance to Africa in order to build viable, lasting and competitive industrial structures. In this connection, my country would invite all those involved in development, and particularly industrialized countries anxious about the future of Africa, to give new impetus to the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, two major agencies within the United Nations system established to promote industrialization and the development of trade of the developing countries as a whole and particularly in Africa. At a time when the globalization and liberalization of the world economy are accelerating as a result of recent agreements made at the Uruguay Round, we should create new opportunities for cooperation to help African 18 countries become part of the world trading system and benefit from the advantages it offers for growth. The basic way to do so is to help Africa, through the appropriate transfer of technology, to progress like other regions and to respond to new conditions governing access to markets in order to become a real actor in the World Trade Organization. The prospects for Africa’s development are not promising because the socio-economic situation is so precarious and efforts made to date to step up progress have proven vain. Indeed, Africa is being crippled under the enormous weight of its debt. In 1994, the debt burden reached $313 billion and today represents 231.3 per cent of its export earnings, or an average of 71.6 per cent of its gross domestic product. Moreover, the continuing drop in official development assistance to African States has put Africa in a very critical economic situation. Far from accepting this situation as our fated lot and aware that we must rely on our own efforts, this year the African countries adopted, in Egypt, the Cairo Programme of Action, which aims at ensuring the immediate relaunching of Africa’s economic and social development through political and economic reforms and a global and coherent strategy. My country is ready to assume its share of the responsibility in the implementation of that Programme. On the crucial issue of debt, Togo would once again appeal to the international community and to the creditors in particular to consider cancelling the concessional debt rescheduled in the Paris Club. We would urge the adoption of innovative measures to reduce the multilateral debt, including the repurchase of that category of debt with the proceeds of the sale of part of the International Monetary Fund’s gold reserves. In short, this question must be addressed on an equitable basis with a view to a lasting solution. Furthermore, giving new impetus to development in Africa must include the mobilization of financial resources both through official development assistance and through private investment. In this regard, my delegation would invite our partners in the developed countries to renew and strengthen their political commitment to support the recovery of the African economy, for economic and financial stability in Africa will most certainly be in the interests of the world economy. Togo duly appreciates the efforts of the United Nations and the international community over the past 50 years to promote economic and socio-cultural development. In particular, we hail the initiatives that led to the adoption of the United Nations Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and Development and the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, as well as the Paris Declaration and Programme of Action for the Least-Developed Countries for the 1990s. It is none the less regrettable that the implementation of these instruments, which were able to take into account the concerns of Africa in various areas of development, has yet to receive the support it deserves for the benefit of our continent and the least-developed countries in particular. Thus the economic and social performance which they should have sparked has not lived up to the expectations of the peoples of Africa. In view of the present state of development in Africa, the international community must make a substantial contribution towards attaining the objectives set forth, not only of the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, but also of other programmes of action. Africa needs to be given specific attention commensurate with its problems, first among which is poverty. Indeed, according to data collected by the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, the number of the most needy rose from 105 million in 1985 to 216 million in 1990 and may reach 304 million by the year 2000. The collective security to which all peoples aspire also depends on finding determined and credible solutions to the question of poverty, to which a great portion of the world is subject. Along the same lines, the Bretton Woods institutions must do more to ensure that structural adjustment programmes are politically, socially and humanly feasible for those countries which must implement them. My delegation concurs with the proposals for reform of the international financial and monetary system with a view to adapting them to the needs of our day, to make it more equitable and to allow it to respond to the true aspirations of peoples. In its search for appropriate solutions to economical and social problems, the United Nations was prompted this year to organize the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen. My country welcomed the holding of that Summit, the first in the annals of our Organization to offer such a marvellous opportunity for deep reflection at the highest level on the issues of human and social development that are of major importance for 19 mankind. My delegation welcomes the 10-point commitments adopted at the Summit and hopes that in implementing those commitments for the benefit of the entire world all our countries will show the fervour that led them to prepare and participate in the Summit. The Fourth World Conference on Women, held just a few days ago in Beijing, is another illustration of our Organization’s determination not to neglect any of the objectives it has set for itself. The Togolese Government, which values women’s active role in the development process and accords them rightful pride of place in human society, will spare no effort to implement the recommendations emanating from that Conference. We urge the international community to shoulder its share of responsibility in the implementation of those recommendations so that women can fully play their role in building a peaceful and prosperous world. With regard to the question of the environment, my delegation welcomes the signing in Paris, in October 1994, of the international Convention on combating drought and desertification, and we welcome most especially the entry into force of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Convention on Climate Change. However, we do not believe that the signing and entry into force of those Conventions are an end in themselves. In the light of the universal concern of a few years ago over the extensive degradation of the environment and the enthusiasm aroused by the Rio Conference, our countries must take the necessary measures to attain the objectives set forth in those various international legal instruments. This coming 24 October the United Nations will be commemorating its fiftieth anniversary. It has at times been difficult to put into effect the purposes and principles of the San Francisco Charter, and the results achieved have not always lived fully up to our expectations. But with the beginning of this new phase, one could hope that — on the basis of lessons learned by evaluating the activities of the past half-century and on the basis of Member States’ capacity to adapt to the ever-shifting realities of the international context — our Organization will truly live up to its new ambitions. As it is about to enter the second half of its first 100 years, the United Nations must preserve its universality and consolidate its vitality, through prudent reform and appropriate strengthening of its entire system and its principal organs, including the Security Council, so that justice and equality may triumph. The enormous tasks awaiting our Organization on the eve of the third millennium require that Member States have greater political will so that the objective of the restructuring and democratization process now under way can be attained to the satisfaction of all, and so that Member States can participate together, on the basis of sovereign equality, in managing the affairs of the world. The same political will is needed in order for development assistance to regain priority status, so that the men, women and children of the countries of the South will enjoy the support that is essential for them to prosper. In doing all this, an inestimable contribution will be made to the promotion of human rights and the right to development, which is another way of averting threats to domestic, regional and global peace and security. As for my country, it renews its commitment to the noble ideals of the United Nations, and, as always, it will do its utmost to help build a world of peace and justice for all. It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Mr. Freitas do Amaral on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session, during which he will guide our discussions on what the future of the United Nations should be. May I also convey my thanks to the President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, Mr. Amara Essy, who, as it were, tilled the ground which the new President will sow. A fiftieth anniversary is a climacteric, usually joyous but not necessarily so. In ancient India, this was around the time in a man’s life that he would be expected to withdraw into a forest, to spend the rest of his days in contemplation of past and future, it being the assessment of our ancestors that anything a man could usefully do he would have done by then. No such drastic measures are needed for the United Nations, not least because it has spent much of its first 50 years meditating in a concrete jungle. And the shadow of the woods of Bretton always loom over it. I do think, however, that as we celebrate, which we should, the survival of the United Nations, we should judge what it has done and what it now needs to do. The United Nations system has had remarkable success in helping to defeat colonialism and apartheid, on social issues like universal health care and women’s rights, and in banning, through global, non-discriminatory treaties, two of the three weapons of mass destruction. These are considerable achievements. But a clear pattern emerges from them. Whenever the United Nations has acted on principle, responding to the felt needs and priorities of the majority of its membership, it has done well. When it has pursued narrow agendas or succumbed to special pleading, it has not. If we were setting out tasks for the United Nations today, what would be the major trends and challenges we would expect it to address? The first is the international economy, transformed by global movements of trade, capital and labour; driven by forces which can break developing economies; regulated — if they can be at all — in forums outside the United Nations, which is therefore marginalized in this most momentous of contemporary developments. The second is an opening up of political systems, with democracy the norm of national governance. The United Nations welcomes this and urges the recalcitrant to change, but is itself sapped by undemocratic systems and institutions. The third is the scourge of war increasingly replaced by the scourge of terrorism, which, for the countries that sponsor it, is war by other means. The United Nations, set up to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, ignores it, as the League of Nations, to its fatal peril, ignored the threat of xenophobia. These are complex and titanic forces. We, therefore, cannot accept, either as a statement of fact or as a basis of policy, the view that all this meant was that the days of absolute sovereignty were over. Sovereignty has never been absolute. Most Members of the United Nations joined immediately after emerging from colonial rule, with their economies destroyed, and dependent on foreign languages for communication, on imperial capitals for support and on donors for subsistence. This is hardly the stuff on which absolute sovereignty is built. It was, in fact, one of the great virtues of the United Nations that it gave fledgling nations space to exercise the sovereignty so cruelly circumscribed elsewhere. Therefore, the United Nations should not claim a unilateral right to intervene in the affairs of its Members. Sovereignty can be diluted only with the voluntary consent of nation States accepting obligations that are non-discriminatory or, in exceptional circumstances, where State authority has collapsed. Far from enfeebling sovereignty, it is the task of the United Nations to nurture it in a world that has made the powerful more dominant and the weak increasingly powerless. We must never forget that this Assembly is an assembly of our nations united. The United Nations rests on the commitment to it of sovereign nations. There is clearly an enormous need for global action to deal with complex issues which have no territorial limits or borders. This is the task of the United Nations. Developing countries which represent the majority of the United Nations, obviously want it to focus on the issues of most pressing concern to them. That is not only fair: that would be the democratic thing to do. For us, the single most important task is development, and we expect this to be the highest priority on the international agenda, as it is on our domestic agendas. Sadly, it is not. The Agenda for Development looks lamentably like an appendix. Can we, at this session, pledge ourselves to honour the commitments, freely negotiated but never implemented, which will make development possible in 13 the South and make the world, for all of us, a better and more peaceful place? It is just as important for the United Nations to have a say in the decisions that guide the international economy. Chapter IX of the Charter gave it the task to promote higher standards of living, solutions of international economic, social, health and related problems, and universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Like the United Nations, the World Trade Organization gives equal weight to the votes of all its members, but it would be a pity if the World Trade Organization cut even the tenuous links between the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the United Nations and, decided instead that global economic policies would in the future be coordinated between it, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, where the system of weighted voting makes the voice of the developing countries irrelevant. At the same time, several studies commissioned to coincide with this anniversary claim that the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) no longer has a useful purpose. This can either mean that the problems UNCTAD addresses — development strategies, poverty alleviation, resource transfers and debt, and the transfer of technology — have been settled, or are now irrelevant. Neither is true. These continue to be burning issues for developing countries, and if the United Nations chooses to ignore them it will not serve the needs of its Member States. The United Nations must assume its Charter responsibility to supervise and coordinate global economic policies. In the World Trade Organization efforts have been made to link trade to environment and labour standards. The World Bank, in its World Development Report 1995, warns about “the proliferation of protectionist demands, many of them under the guise of demands for fair trade and a level playing field”. If, indeed, there is a genuine interest in protecting the environment and the interests of labour in developing countries, why are the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the International Labour Organization (ILO) being sidelined in this exercise? The answer must be that there is no provision in these bodies for the coercive, retaliatory action which would be available under the sanctions regime of the World Trade Organization. However, the industrialized countries say that environmental and labour standards must be harmonized upwards, because otherwise transnational corporations would go where these standards were the lowest. This of course implies that transnational corporations have an appalling and exploitative standard of behaviour, but when, in the 1970s and 1980s, the United Nations tried to develop a code of conduct for transnational corporations, we were told that transnational corporations were models of virtue. How do these two views cohere? The problem posed by these global economic forces is enormous. Trade is the oxygen of our economies, but cross-border trade between transnational corporations constitutes one third of world trade and almost 15 per cent of gross global product. No developing country, or group of developing countries, can match this commercial strength, augmented, of course, by the enormous weight of financial flows, which can make or break a country’s financial structure. The third element in the trinity of mobility in the international economy is migration. At present 125 million people live outside their countries, but more than half of them move between developing countries; this is not, therefore, as it has so often been misrepresented, only a problem for the developed world. It is disturbing, however, that those who insist on unfettered and truly global flows of capital and trade also insist on restrictions being placed on the movement of labour. Economic arguments are given to justify this, but there are also claims that large migrations disturb the way a society thinks of itself as a unified cultural or ethnic entity. The President returned to the Chair. It would be honest to recognize these fears as racist. India is a model of how these fears can be overcome. On the one hand, over the past decade several million illegal immigrants have come into India. We know to our cost the political, economic and social strain this causes. However, we do not accept a racial basis for discriminating against legal migrants. We do not accept that nationhood is based on race, any more than it is based on religion or any other exclusive attribute. The waves of migration that have washed over India have made us a multi-ethnic society; we have been culturally enriched, not impoverished. We urge the international community not to let the forces of xenophobia rise again. Sovereignty has never been threatened by fresh blood freely welcomed; it has been threatened by the forces of racist intolerance. 14 This brings me naturally to the other force that now threatens the sovereignty of so many nations. Terrorism is the black plague of our times and it has been made more dangerous by the mystique with which the media has endowed it. It is argued sometimes that one man’s freedom fighter is another man’s terrorist. This is specious logic. In 1922 Mahatma Gandhi suspended for several years the freedom struggle in India because, in an incident in the small village of Chauri Chaura, a mob burnt some policemen to death. In Gandhi’s view, the view of the ultimate freedom-fighter, the means must sanctify the ends. What ends could possibly justify the barbarism of taking an innocent foreigner in India hostage and beheading him in cold blood? Foreign mercenaries did this to the Norwegian Hans Christian Ostro last month. An empire of terror is being built up with arms and money sent across borders; its foot soldiers are drawn from the bigoted, its leadership from ruthless, unprincipled men and, regrettably, some women. At every summit in recent years, whether of the non- aligned, the Group of Seven, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), or the Commonwealth, Heads of State and Government have reaffirmed their resolve to defeat all forms of terrorism. However, in the United Nations, where we are all represented, we have been unable to speak in such forthright terms. We must do so at this fiftieth anniversary. To appease terrorism now will be as dangerous as appeasing xenophobia was in the 1930s and ultimately as destructive of both peace and democracy, because terrorism, as I said earlier, is war by other means. Whether it tries to violate the territorial integrity of a country, as in India, in our State of Jammu and Kashmir, or to unseat duly constituted Governments, as in Afghanistan, the acts of States sponsoring terrorism are, in fact, acts of war. Democracies, as open societies, are particularly vulnerable to terrorism. The United Nations welcomes the global trend that has made democracy the norm of governance, but has done nothing to defend democracies from extremist and other threats. Instead, it comforts itself with the mantras that democracy is development, and democracies do not wage war. These neatly package all the world’s problems and absolve the United Nations of any further responsibility: establish democracy everywhere and, automatically, development and peace will follow. Both propositions are historically untrue. Democracies that developed in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries either suppressed democratic rights until they became rich, or grew rich on the ruthless exploitation of colonies. When they shed their empires after the Second World War democracy became development in Europe only in the uniquely generous embrace of the Marshall Plan. The myth that democracies do not wage war is destroyed by the history of colonial rule and its wars, leading to the conflagration of the First World War. The United Nations should, therefore, take these propositions as objectives, not as givens. Democracy should lead to development; democracies should be peaceful. I want to touch briefly upon two other global issues which affect our lives — disarmament and human rights. After Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Mahatma Gandhi said that the use of the atom bomb for the wholesale destruction of men, women and children was the most diabolical use of science. We were therefore appalled that, instead of stepping back from the road to nuclear ruin, the nuclear- weapon States sped faster and faster down it. As they accelerated, India tried unsuccessfully to put on the brakes. In 1954 we called for an end to nuclear testing. In 1965 we proposed principles for a non-proliferation treaty. In 1982 we called for a convention to ban the use of nuclear weapons and for an end to the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. In 1988 we proposed to the United Nations a comprehensive action plan for a world free of nuclear weapons. Our goal — shared, I believe by most of us here — is a world from which nuclear weapons have been eliminated. The nuclear-weapon States claim to share this goal, but their present objective is to retain nuclear weapons while making sure others do not get them. The logic of this is hard to understand. It cannot be argued that the security of a few countries depends on their having nuclear weapons and that that of the rest depends on their not having them. What makes the NPT such a pernicious document is that it legitimizes this illogicality, and now that it has been made permanent it has made the possession of nuclear weapons by the nuclear-weapon States immutable and has made the goal of global nuclear disarmament that much more difficult. It is useful to recall that when India and other developing countries proposed the NPT, a global balance of responsibilities was envisaged. Those who did not have nuclear weapons would not seek to acquire them; those who had them would not try either to refine or develop them or to increase their arsenals. This balance was never honoured, with the result that 25 years after the signing of the NPT the world is a much more dangerous place, 15 made so by the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the arsenals of the nuclear-weapon States. I recall this background because two years ago the international community at last agreed to negotiate a comprehensive test-ban treaty. We are glad that negotiations are in progress, but we also note that nuclear-weapon States agreed to a comprehensive test-ban treaty only after acquiring the know-how to develop and refine their arsenals without the need for tests. In our view, the comprehensive test-ban treaty must be an integral step in the process of nuclear disarmament. Developing new warheads or refining existing ones after a comprehensive test-ban treaty is in place, using innovative technologies, would be as contrary to the spirit of the comprehensive test-ban treaty as the NPT is to the spirit of non-proliferation. The comprehensive test-ban treaty must contain a commitment binding on the international community, especially the nuclear-weapon States, to take further measures within an agreed time-frame towards the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free world. The existence of nuclear weapons poses a threat to peace and security. Only global nuclear disarmament can guarantee that there will never be a nuclear war. Therefore, despite the unfortunate legitimization of nuclear weapons through the indefinite extension of the NPT, India will continue to work with like-minded countries for the early elimination of all nuclear weapons. We hope that at this session the Assembly will finalize dates for the fourth United Nations special session on disarmament, in 1997. Human rights have always been a preoccupation of the United Nations, but their protection and promotion of such rights in each country is the primary responsibility of the government. The universality and interdependence of all human rights are also beyond question. That is precisely why the United Nations system cannot promote and protect human rights by a unilateral prioritization of individual freedoms or a proliferation of intrusive mechanisms, or by diverting funds from development activities to human rights activities. The priorities of nations will differ. The United Nations must balance the promotion of all human rights — civil, cultural, economic, political and social — preserve and propagate the values of every society and promote tolerance for diversity and cross-cultural interaction. Politicizing the human-rights agenda and using it to target countries is undesirable. The United Nations will become responsive to these global issues and effective and efficient only if it also becomes more democratic in its functioning. Developing countries find it hard to identify with the agendas and priorities of the United Nations; they feel that it now represents the privilege of a few rather than the interests of the many. If the majority of its Members become disenchanted with it, what role can the United Nations effectively play? For the United Nations to be more effective, the General Assembly must be given new life and breathe that life into the other bodies of the system. The legitimacy and effectiveness of the Security Council must be enhanced. An expansion of both permanent and non-permanent members is a must if the Council is to become a truly representative body acting on behalf of the Members of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace and security. The members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries have put forward a comprehensive proposal for the reform and restructuring of the Security Council. India believes that, to truly reflect the expanded membership of the United Nations, developing countries must be included as permanent members. New permanent members should be chosen not arbitrarily, but on objective criteria. In the League of Nations it was argued that one country had a special right of entry into the Supreme Council. When that was forced through, one or two of the other aspirants left the League, starting its decline. We should not repeat that tragedy. On objective criteria, some countries will clearly qualify for permanent membership. We believe India will be among them. The United Nations has in recent years devoted itself almost exclusively to peace-keeping, which is important, but not the central issue of our times. It is judged, naturally, by its record in these operations. There have been successes and failures, and both provide the reason and the need for introspection. India believes that United Nations peace-keeping operations must be based on the principles evolved over the last 50 years. Operations guided by these principles have usually done well. Where these have been abandoned, failure has been common. Over the past year this truth has gained broad acceptance, and the Special Committee on Peace-Keeping Operations is now trying to collate these principles. It would be desirable for the General Assembly at this fiftieth session to agree on them. India will contribute to this work. India has consistently supported the peace-keeping activities of the United Nations. Indian troops have participated in all major peace-keeping operations, ranging from the Congo to Cambodia, Somalia and Mozambique. We are currently participating in United Nations peace-keeping operations in Rwanda, Angola, Haiti, 16 Liberia and Kuwait. We have also offered a brigade of troops to the United Nations stand-by arrangement. India will continue to contribute to United Nations efforts to maintain international peace and security. If the United Nations is to become a leading player on the world scene, it must be given the means needed to do the job we entrust to it. Clearly, setting out on a second 50 years with a crippling financial crisis is not the best way to do so. In India we make considerable efforts to pay our contributions promptly and in full. We believe that all Members must pay their assessed contributions in full and on time. Further, those in arrears must announce a schedule for settlement. There can be no progress in the on-going efforts for financial reform unless this is done. The fiftieth session of the General Assembly is a historic one. It is our responsibility to rejuvenate the United Nations, give it the tasks we want it to do, and the means with which to do them. We set up the United Nations because we felt that all of us stood to gain from it. In the dark days of the cold war and in the friction between North and South, we seem to have lost this vision. Since the inception of the United Nations, India has been committed to the principles and objectives of the Charter. In the last five decades we have played an important role in shaping the United Nations agenda, taking the lead on the crucial issues of decolonization, disarmament, human rights and environment, among others. On this historic occasion we pledge our continuing commitment to the United Nations efforts to chart a new course for the collective benefit of all humanity. As we attempt to do so, I am reminded of Jawaharlal Nehru’s speech to the General Assembly in November 1948, in Paris. He said: “The objectives are clear; your aim is clear; and yet, in looking at that aim, we lose ourselves often, if I may venture to say so, in smaller matters and forget the main objective that we were looking at. Sometimes it seems that the objective itself gets a little clouded”. (Plenary Verbatim Records, Third Session, General Assembly, 154th meeting, p. 16) We must ensure that we set aside smaller matters, that we do not allow the objective to get clouded and that we move forward together in harmony and for the benefit of all the people of the world. Since the United Nations was founded, Mexico has made a committed and enthusiastic contribution to its positive development. Without exception, Mexico has effectively promoted the principles, the letter and the spirit of the San Francisco Charter. Today Mexico confirms before the world its unswerving commitment to peace, development and collective understanding, which are the inspiration of the United Nations. We have had five decades of collective diplomacy, controversy over the scope and limitations of multilateral action, difficult adaptations for the United Nations to a world that is constantly changing at a dizzying pace; five decades in which the ship of the United Nations has often been pounded by the waves of intolerance, of the arbitrary and irrational use of power and force and of overt violations of the norms of international law. Despite the pounding it has received, the ship remains afloat. Today it has 185 nations on board, and it is still mankind’s best alternative for bringing future generations to a safer and stabler port than the one we inherited at the end of the Second World War. In these first 50 years the foundations have been laid for building a new civilization at a higher level for peaceful coexistence between nations. Never before in history has mankind possessed an instrument as universal and spirited as the United Nations. The general debate in this fiftieth anniversary year is an appropriate occasion for us to pledge ourselves to preserving the achievements of the United Nations and outlining the form it should take in the next century. Clearly, the world cannot do without the United Nations, but it is also obvious that its structures are in need of far-reaching changes in order to be up to the challenges of the present day. The recurring topic is the need to reform the Organization, and the main issues are, among others, the following: First, Mexico attaches priority to the examination of the reform of the Security Council and has proposed an increase in the Council’s membership, strictly respecting the principle of equitable geographical distribution in the 15 context of a genuine reform of its working methods, including reconsideration of the use and the existence of the veto power. A second issue is the limitations on the role of the Secretary-General, which have very significantly curtailed his ability to act. Thirdly, there is the failure of a large number of Member States to meet their financial obligations. A fourth issue is the extreme bureaucratization of some of the specialized agencies of the United Nations system and the lack of coordination of their activities, as well as the lack of political support by the Members for other agencies, such as the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), which carry out very useful functions. The enthusiasm generated by the end of the bipolar confrontation has lessened due to the emergence of vast and painful ethnic, religious and regional conflicts, especially in the former Yugoslavia and in several countries in Africa — conflicts whose resolution we must urgently seek. Fortunately, there are reasons for optimism, such as the progress achieved in the negotiations in the Middle East, which we must acknowledge and continue to encourage. We view with special satisfaction the progress of the negotiations toward a firm and lasting peace in Guatemala, to which the Secretary-General and the Group of Friends, among them Mexico, have greatly contributed. The issue of disarmament has for many years been a priority on the agenda of the international community. Just a few months ago, we agreed on the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. At the same time, we reaffirmed by consensus important commitments relating to disarmament, including agreement by all nuclear weapon States to make systematic and progressive efforts to reduce nuclear weapons globally, with the goal of eliminating these weapons within a programme of general and complete disarmament. We now need to establish deadlines for the attainment of these objectives and remain vigilant, through the review mechanism we also approved at the Conference, in monitoring the commitments entered into. Nevertheless, the vast majority of members of the international community are clearly dissatisfied with the pace of the negotiations on the subject. It would seem that the necessary political will does not exist to take advantage of the detente between the major military Powers to move ahead in the sphere of disarmament. Rather, the fear persists that this process may be reversible. This of course makes it advisable to redouble efforts to make progress on disarmament issues, as well as to devote attention to a specific programme of mutual confidence-building measures among States. The conclusion in 1996 of a treaty of universal validity proclaiming an absolute ban on nuclear-weapon tests in all environments is the priority task in the disarmament field. This treaty, currently being negotiated in Geneva, should be opened for signature before the beginning of the next session of the General Assembly. With a view to speeding up the attainment of that objective, all the nuclear-weapon States should embrace the “zero option”, as the United States of America, France and the United Kingdom have already done. The Government of Mexico is extremely concerned at the recent decisions by the People’s Republic of China and France to conduct nuclear-weapon tests despite repeated calls by the international community for them to desist from such action. We condemn those tests and reiterate our respectful but firm appeal to these countries to proclaim a moratorium which will remain in force until the nuclear test-ban treaty is concluded. The States parties to the Treaty of Tlatelolco and the member States of the Treaty of Rarotonga will be submitting a draft resolution to that end for consideration by the Assembly. Moreover, we share the view of those States that have indicated their support for the immediate launching of negotiations to ensure the prohibition of the production of fissionable materials for nuclear weapons, which was indeed another of the commitments agreed to by consensus at the Review and Extension Conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Along with the efforts to bring about nuclear disarmament, impetus must also be given to the process of conventional disarmament. Mexico supports and is encouraging the negotiation of conventional-disarmament agreements which will ensure transparency and limit the manufacture and trade in and transfer of certain types of conventional weapons, both regionally and worldwide. In the Conference on conventional weapons now under way in Vienna, Mexico will promote the prohibition of the use, production, storage and transfer of land-mines and will submit proposals on the use of small-calibre weapons, cluster bombs, flechettes and air-fueled explosives. 16 The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations give us an opportunity to reflect on what has been achieved and on what we need to change. It should be recalled that the past year has also marked the fiftieth anniversary of the institutions established at the memorable Bretton Woods meeting. The agreements that set up the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have promoted economic cooperation over the five decades following their establishment. The globalization of production, of trade and, above all, of finance, is undoubtedly a stimulant to economic development. Yet it could cause crises which these financial institutions are not at present able to meet effectively. Mexico recognizes and is grateful for the support received from the international community in the financial crisis it has experienced. The enormous efforts being made every day by the Mexican people to resolve this situation would have had to be even greater if we had not been able to count on the support of the international community, both from friendly Governments and from multilateral agencies. Nevertheless, we must acknowledge that the Mexican crisis has afforded evidence of the vulnerability of the international financial system as a whole. For the modern State, and especially for developing countries, the successful conclusion of our structural-change process requires a stable international financial system, the timely and effective financial support that the international financing institutions can extend to us, and the ability of those institutions to detect and prevent crises facing member countries in the external sector. Let me now comment on the economic situation in my country. Mexico decided to face head-on the problems which led to the financial crisis head-on and to establish immediately, with the support of the international community, a strict economic programme entailing dynamic but necessary adjustment measures. We have taken difficult decisions, with a clear purpose: to recognize the need for adjustment while mitigating its costs to the fullest possible extent and at the same time constructing a new platform for the sustained development of the economy. As of now, inflation in Mexico is markedly declining, as are interest rates; productive activity in key sectors of the economy is beginning to regain its dynamism; and the Mexican economy is continuing its process of structural transformation with a view to maintaining and increasing our competitiveness. The balance of trade, which was in severe deficit, is now showing a surplus, and we are continuing to look for other markets in the world, be they developed or developing, in order to diversify our trade. We fully recognize the social costs of the crisis, and steps are being taken to mitigate its effects. To assess the situation in its true light, however, it is not sufficient to consider only the cost of the present economic policy. The still greater cost that would have been incurred if decisive action had not been taken in this serious situation must also be taken into account. Mexico will continue to insist not only on the application of existing treaties in force, the universally recognized principles of law and the decisions of international tribunals, but also on the major contribution made by some United Nations resolutions to the development of international law. Therefore, we denounce in this forum, mankind’s highest, any attempt to apply, on an extraterritorial basis the laws of a State to citizens of third countries, as the misnamed “Freedom and Democratic Solidarity with Cuba Act” would do. We appeal to the sense of justice, equity and international solidarity of the United States Congress to stop what would be, if passed, a clear violation of international law and an unacceptable political precedent for the rest of the world. As a further clear demonstration of our commitment to the rule of law as a standard of conduct, and in response to the appeal made by the Secretary-General in his document entitled “An Agenda for Peace”, Mexico would be prepared to withdraw the reservation made in its statement of acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice if other countries did the same. Mexico supports the principle of shared responsibility among nations for the major issues of the new world agenda: the maintenance of a just peace in the world, the fight against poverty, moves to ensure international financial stability, free trade, the battle against drug trafficking, the regulation of migratory movements, with strict respect for the human rights of migrants, the strengthening of democracy, and the protection of human rights. Furthermore, on a selective basis, we think it is appropriate to formulate action programmes through world conferences, such as the International Conference on Population and Development, in Cairo, and the World Summit on Social Development, in Copenhagen; and the incorporation of women in our 17 society on equal terms on the basis of the recent Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action. Drug consumption and trafficking have become one of the principal threats to the health and welfare of societies, endangering their economic, political and social structures. Drug trafficking and related illicit activities, such as the illegal traffic in arms, money laundering, terrorism, corruption and other criminal activities, constitute the most important challenge to the administration of justice in many countries. It is essential for the international community to redouble its efforts to eliminate the demand, production, supply, trafficking and illegal distribution of drugs. It is vital to forge new consensus around an international strategy against drug trafficking. For this reason, the President of Mexico, Mr. Ernesto Zedillo, has proposed the holding of an international conference to work out propose new solutions to this problem. The tenth anniversary of the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances seems a particularly appropriate time for such a gathering. We trust that the General Assembly at this session will see merit in and find full justification for our proposal, which has already been endorsed by a significant number of countries, and we reaffirm, of course, our readiness to engage in broad dialogue on the scope and content of this initiative. New forms of intolerance, racism and xenophobia threaten world peace. The United Nations must carry out an urgent analysis of the growing significance of international migratory flows in all geographical regions which are today affected by such destructive attitudes. We call on the international community to initiate a dialogue which will make it possible to find constructive solutions to this phenomenon, in a context of full respect for the human rights of migrants and their families, including workers’ rights. Starting with this general debate, the United Nations is entering upon a period as full as of uncertainty as of opportunity. The twenty-first century will differ from all the preceding centuries in that, for the first time, we shall have the opportunity of building a truly world-wide civilization, and, by the same token, a set of universal values to guide and modulate the activity of all States. The emergence of a collective awareness, the inexhaustible talent of human beings and the desire that negotiation and understanding should prevail over any idea of force or imposition are the cornerstones of a new world order in which there will be room for the richest and most noble contributions of all peoples. In the phase the United Nations is now entering, Mexico will maintain its unswerving support for the greatest causes of mankind. As part of this commitment, we shall bring the moral qualities, the pacifist vocation and the spirit of solidarity of the Mexican people to bear on the building of an international system capable of improving the human condition and ensuring the dignity and survival of mankind and of the planet that we share with one another. Let me, at the outset, congratulate His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his unanimous election as President of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. His wide diplomatic experience and intellectual abilities reinforce our confidence in his stewardship. I wish him success in the heavy task before us. I also pay tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, who ably presided over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the untiring and visionary manner in which he is managing the affairs of the Organization. Kenya is fully committed to the ideals of this Organization. Indeed, Kenya’s motto, “Harambee” which means “pull together”, and the national philosophy of peace, love and unity, are fitting expressions of what the United Nations and the Kenyan people aspire to. Kenya has always championed the principles of democracy and the pursuit of socio-economic development to enhance the living standards of the people. Under the leadership of His Excellency President Daniel T. Arap Moi, Kenya has undertaken far-reaching political and economic reforms, whose benefits we are beginning to see. Our economy is now totally liberalized in keeping with our tradition of providing an environment conducive to enterprise development. Our democratic institutions have developed the necessary flexibility to cope with the new situations and to ensure continuity of the political stability which the country has enjoyed since independence. We have observed a systematic campaign to denigrate African countries. It is as though there were an agenda to bring them into international disrepute. We reject these destructive approaches designed to promote divisive elements and to manipulate domestic public opinion with a view to pitting people against their own Governments. Kenya also condemns in the strongest terms the tendency in certain sectors of the international press to present the image of African countries in terms of tribal superiority or inferiority, to inflame ethnic conflicts and to depict the continent as replete with corruption and catastrophes. Africa deserves credit for its arduous struggle against external domination. We are determined to create cohesive and prosperous States after many years of destructive colonial policies of divide and rule, which constituted gross violations of human rights. 11 I wish to assure the Assembly that the Government and the people of Kenya are determined despite the odds to continue the struggle to forge national unity and to accelerate socio-economic development. Our commitment, which I underscore, to the principles of democracy, good governance, the protection and promotion of human rights and the rule of law remains firm. It is against that background that I wish now to address some of the issues on the agenda of the General Assembly. In the time since its inception, the United Nations has evolved into a truly global organization, as envisaged in the Charter. Its membership has grown from 50 at its inception to 185 today. Its activities have ranged from decolonization, the codification of international law, disarmament and conflict resolution to global humanitarian activities and international economic cooperation. The achievements in these areas are, indeed, self-evident. The demands on the Organization have, however, exerted maximum pressure on its ability to cope. Hence the need for the Organization to be revitalized at this opportune time. Five years after the end of the cold war the international community still faces a number of conflicts, which are of great concern as they continue to undermine international peace and security. These conflicts have posed serious challenges owing primarily to complexities associated with their internal character. We nevertheless appreciate the flexibility with which the United Nations is dealing with these conflicts and the commendable successes which have been achieved in resolving a good number of them. These achievements include the resolution of the conflicts in Namibia, Cambodia, Mozambique, El Salvador and Haiti. Success becomes even more pronounced when we consider the extent to which the United Nations has effectively mobilized international humanitarian assistance in virtually all conflict areas, through the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other United Nations agencies. At the forty-seventh session the General Assembly mandated the Secretary-General to pursue preventive diplomacy and to strengthen the Secretariat’s capacity to cope with situations likely to endanger international peace and security. To that end, the Secretary-General’s initiatives “An Agenda for Peace” and the subsequent Supplement to that document have made a significant contribution to this important subject. I wish to record Kenya’s appreciation to the Secretary-General for his personal efforts and initiatives in search of lasting international peace and security. We look forward to the results of the work of the informal working groups that have been set up to consider in greater depth the various elements contained in the Agenda. We note the recent initiatives taken with a view to strengthening the role of regional organizations in conflict resolution and conflict management. Kenya, however, wishes to reiterate that the thrust of the contributions of regional organizations and arrangements should be targeted towards preventive diplomacy and peacemaking. We submit that peace-keeping and peace enforcement should remain the primary responsibility of the United Nations. These responsibilities are enshrined in the Charter and cannot be transferred to regional organizations. We encourage closer cooperation in this regard between the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations on the basis of the Charter and the agreement on cooperation between the two organizations. With regard to regional conflicts, Kenya welcomes the important steps towards long-lasting peace that we have recently witnessed in the southern part of Africa. Following the positive resolution of the conflict in Mozambique, recent developments in Angola give us high expectations for a durable solution of the protracted conflict in that sisterly country. At a time when the world is championing the cause of peace, democracy and human rights, it is totally unacceptable that a band of mercenaries should overthrow the Government of the Comoros and hold the President and Government officials captive. Kenya condemns this act in the strongest terms possible and calls on the Security Council to take necessary measures to rectify the situation. With respect to Liberia, we welcome the recent signing of an agreement by all the warring parties, in which they have committed themselves to a programme for the restoration of democracy to culminate in general elections in a year’s time. The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) should be congratulated for the efforts and sacrifices it has made in the search for a lasting solution to the Liberian conflict. United Nations involvement in the resolution of the Liberia conflict, which has been minimal so far despite the magnitude of the problem, should be enhanced. It is, therefore, important that the United Nations should enhance its support to the peace efforts in Liberia to ensure that the momentum for peace is sustained. 12 In the Middle East, the process towards durable peace achieved another important milestone with last week’s signing of a further agreement between Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel and Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), extending Palestinian self-rule over the West Bank. We commend the vision and courage of these leaders and encourage them and other leaders in the region to broaden the peace process. The situation in Somalia continues to be a matter of great concern to Kenya. As long as the situation in Somalia remains unstable, the countries of the region, and in particular my own, will continue to experience problems associated with the influx of refugees and with a lack of security in the border region. While we commend humanitarian efforts in Somalia, we are deeply concerned that there has been no tangible progress in national and political reconciliation in that country. We call on the factional leaders to put the interests of the Somali people first and to be cognizant of the fact that a lasting solution to the Somali problem lies with the Somali people and their leaders. The conflict in the former Yugoslavia poses one of the greatest challenges to the capacity of the United Nations to facilitate the search for durable peace. We appreciate all the diplomatic initiatives which have been undertaken to bring about a negotiated settlement, and we encourage all the parties to intensify their efforts for lasting peace. I wish to pay tribute to all United Nations military, civilian and humanitarian personnel for the sacrifices they have made to advance the cause of peace in that region. Kenya has made a significant contribution to peace-keeping operations in the former Yugoslavia, having contributed one battalion as well as military observers and civilian police over the last four years. We welcome the establishment of the International Commission of Inquiry to investigate the assassination of the former Head of State and senior Government officials and the subsequent massacres of civilians in Burundi. We would also welcome the establishment by the Security Council of a commission to oversee compliance with arms embargos against groups and individuals undermining peace and security in the Central African region. Kenya stresses the importance of reconciliation and tolerance and appeals to the international community to continue to assist the countries of the Great Lakes region to deal with the root causes of the problems that have bedevilled them for many years, as well as with their reconstruction efforts. In particular, the security of populations and the resettlement of refugees must be adequately and comprehensively addressed. The results of the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, held in May this year, constitute a significant contribution to the realization of a nuclear-free world. The commitments and the security assurances made by the nuclear-weapon States to the non-nuclear- weapon States should strengthen the resolve of the international community towards the total elimination of nuclear weapons. It is therefore necessary that these commitments be translated into binding international legal instruments. Kenya looks forward to the conclusion, by 1996, of the comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty. We join the international community in reiterating the call for strict observance of the moratorium on nuclear testing pending the conclusion of that treaty. The world economy as a whole continues to show modest growth, with the highest performance being experienced in South-East Asia. However, many economies in the African region are still sluggish, although there are signs of recovery. The continent remains highly vulnerable to adverse international economic policies, as well as natural calamities, owing to its limited capacity to respond. Kenya and many other African countries have undertaken major political and economic reforms despite the enormous short-term adverse effects on the vulnerable social groups, particularly in regard to the escalating costs of, for instance, education, health and housing. These efforts, however, have been hampered by the decline in both bilateral and multilateral financial support, resulting in limited prospects for economic growth. In this regard, we urge the international community to provide adequate resources to support these reforms. As the United Nations celebrates its fiftieth anniversary it is imperative that development support be accorded the priority that it obviously deserves. The international commitment relating to the fulfilment of the agreed target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product should be given the necessary impetus to reverse the declining trend. Kenya appeals to the industrialized countries to meet the official development assistance target and to provide new and additional resources to finance the programmes adopted by the various United Nations Conferences. 13 Debt-servicing obligations should not become an obstacle to efforts aimed at the creation of employment, the reduction of poverty and social integration. While we welcome the various measures taken by the international community, on bilateral and multilateral bases, to mitigate the debt burden, it is evident that these measures have achieved only limited results. Kenya believes that a lasting solution to the debt burden is a bold initiative for a more effective reduction, or cancellation, of both the bilateral and the multilateral debt of the heavily indebted low-income countries, particularly in Africa. While the liberalization of world trade, in the context of the World Trade Organization, is expected to benefit the international community, there are strong indications that the results may not benefit all regions. The opening of the African market to external competition has already put serious strain on the fragile industrial sector of these countries. Furthermore, the phasing out of the preferential trade arrangements extended to African and other developing countries poses a serious threat to their traditional markets. African countries therefore need support if they are to diversify their economies. It is pertinent that “An Agenda for Development” should embrace all the programmes to which the international community has already committed, or will commit, itself in the various international conferences, including the Rio Conference on Environment and Development, the Cairo Conference on Population and Development, the Copenhagen Summit for Social Development, the Fourth World Conference on Women and the forthcoming United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (HABITAT II), to be held in Istanbul, Turkey. It is also important that HABITAT II come up with a concrete plan of action that will give HABITAT, as the United Nations agency responsible for human settlements, an enhanced mandate, with an effective capacity to assist Member States, particularly developing countries, to deal with the increased problems of human settlements and thus enable them to have adequate shelter — one of the fundamental human rights. It is imperative that the Agenda accord the highest priority to the development of national and regional capacities. It should also be people-centred, with the emphasis on human-resources development, the application of science and technology and the expansion of employment and income-generating opportunities. At the global level, the United Nations Economic and Social Council should not only assume effective coordination of the international policies and activities of the specialized agencies but also ensure the mobilization of resources for operational activities which are critical for the realization of socio-economic development. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations provides a great opportunity for the international community to focus constructively on the measures that should be taken to revitalize the Organization on the basis of the experience gained and the challenges ahead. Kenya is of the view that the Organization has proved its effectiveness and flexibility in dealing with complex and wide-ranging international issues. The United Nations, therefore, does not require radical transformation but, rather, the strengthening and modification of its structures and organs to enhance its effectiveness and responsiveness to new priorities and strategies. It is vital that the Organization continue to cater adequately for both international peace and security and cooperation for development, in accordance with the Charter. Revitalization of the United Nations entails not only the need to streamline the administrative structures of the Organization but also the need to ensure that it is provided with adequate resources, on a regular and assured basis, to enable it to execute the mandates entrusted to it by the Member States. The report of the ad hoc Open-ended Working Group on reform of the Security Council has highlighted the pertinent areas requiring reform. There is consensus on the need to expand the membership of the Council. Kenya urges greater flexibility in the positions taken so that agreement can be reached on the number and distribution of the additional seats on the basis of equitable geographical distribution for all categories. This could be achieved through expansion of the membership to include more countries from the regions that are currently underrepresented and by effecting periodic reviews of the permanent membership to take account of the evolving realities of the world situation. With regard to the question of financing, we are concerned that the operations of the Organization have been greatly hampered by the failure of many Member States to honour their budgetary obligations in full and on time. Irrespective of the outcome of the reform process, the timely payment of United Nations apportionments will continue to be of crucial importance to the financial soundness of the Organization. The financing of the 14 Organization is a collective responsibility of all the Member States. Unilateral actions relating to budgetary contributions are therefore inconsistent with the provisions of the Charter. It is only through necessary and thorough assessment of the individual countries’ capacity to pay that the scale of assessments can be adjusted. As the United Nations continues to introduce measures to ensure the reduction of waste and to deal with the financial crisis, it is imperative that the Organization ensure the maximum and rational use of the existing facilities. All meetings and conferences under the auspices of United Nations bodies should, to the extent possible, be held in Nairobi — the only United Nations Centre in the whole of the developing world. We are, indeed, concerned about the very low utilization rate of the conference facilities in Nairobi pointed out by the Secretary-General in his report on United Nations Conference Services. In this regard, Kenya wishes to see the United Nations make full use of the facilities available at the United Nations Centre in Gigiri, the headquarters of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (HABITAT). Kenya has offered to host in Nairobi the secretariat for the Convention on Biological Diversity in order to make it possible to utilize the expertise and capacity which UNEP has developed over the years. We look forward to the support of the international community in this regard. Let us not lose the opportunity offered by the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations to renew our resolve to make the Organization fulfil the aspirations of peace, hope and stability that inspired the founding fathers of this Organization. As we move into the next millennium, we must endeavour to make this world a better place to live in. Kenya will play its part as necessary. It gives me great pleasure to extend warm congratulations, on behalf of the delegation of Myanmar and on my own behalf, to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. The diplomatic skills and experience he brings to his high office assure us of a successful session. Allow me to take this opportunity to express our appreciation to Mr. Amara Essy, Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, for having so successfully guided the deliberations of the last session. The United Nations is 50 years old this year. It is both a time for celebration and an opportunity for reflection. The Organization has evolved over time and has served us well for half a century. The significant increase in the membership — from the original 51 to the present 185 — underscores the continuing relevance of the United Nations. However, vast transformations are now taking place, and reforms in the structure and work of the Organization must be instituted to reflect the new realities. We wish to see a more efficient and result- oriented Organization — one that retains mechanisms which have proved effective and adopts innovative measures to ensure cooperation in the post-bloc world. Security Council reforms constitute one of the most important issues to be addressed. Myanmar stands for a pragmatic approach that will ensure that the Council evolves into a more representative, effective and 21 democratic body. To judge from the work done during the last two sessions of the General Assembly by the Open- ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council, it is clear that there is a convergence of views that the Council should be enlarged. The enlargement should however be accompanied by measures to make it more effective. It should ensure equitable geographical representation and at the same time preserve the possibility for smaller States to serve on the Council. Myanmar fully supports the position of the non-aligned countries which stresses the importance of enhancing the effective and efficient functioning of the Security Council by adopting measures geared towards reforming its working methods and procedures. Myanmar welcomes the actions already taken to enhance the relationship between the Council and the general membership as well as measures to improve its working methods and procedures. We are particularly pleased to see that the Council has initiated the holding of orientation debates and briefings by the President of the Council for States non-members of the Security Council. We see the need to enhance cooperation between the Security Council and the General Assembly in accordance with Articles 10, 11, 12 and 14 of the Charter. We also share the view that reforms can best be achieved through a combination of means that include General Assembly resolutions, changes in the rules of procedure, and appropriate amendments to the Charter where necessary. At the same time, the role of the General Assembly — the one forum where all the Member States are represented — should be reviewed to enable it to deal more effectively with outstanding problems and to allow it to focus on the new challenges of our times. We consider it vital that there be a more dynamic relationship between the main organs of the Organization — the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. In recent years the United Nations, despite constraints, has been in the forefront of the international community’s efforts to deal with the unresolved problems of the cold-war decades as well as new ones that have surfaced. It has been called upon to meet the burgeoning demand for peace-keeping. In some cases, like Angola, Cambodia, El Salvador and Mozambique, it has scored successes. In some others, like Bosnia and Herzegovina and Somalia, it has come under heavy strain and has proved to be ineffective. The lesson to be learned is that the Security Council should be far more conscious of when and under what mandate to begin peace-keeping operations. Such operations must have clearly defined objectives. More important, agreement among major Powers must carry with it the support of the majority of the Member States if it is to have the desired result. If the United Nations system is to be revitalized and strengthened, the basic issue of adequate financing, particularly of peace-keeping operations, must be addressed. Whether that happens depends on us. The United Nations can only be as strong or as effective as Member States choose to make it. The limitations of the United Nations should not encourage Member States to take precipitate action. As a Myanmar saying goes: “When mice enter the granary, we must catch the mice and not set fire to the granary”. The founders of the United Nations also envisaged it as an international body for the promotion of the economic and social welfare of all peoples. Even though the right to development is recognized as an inalienable human right, the disparity between developed and developing countries continues to widen. Member States should reaffirm their commitment to cooperate in creating an international economic environment conducive to the realization of the right to development. Without development there can be no prospect for lasting peace. In this regard I am pleased to note that in his recommendations on an Agenda for Development the Secretary-General last November stressed that development should be recognized as the foremost and most far-reaching task of our time. The United Nations was established on the principle of the equality of all its Members. The mandate of the Organization is to advance peace and security, and bring international justice and economic and social development to all peoples. While it deserves to be commended for its vital role in the historic process of decolonization which led to the independence of more than 80 countries, much less can be said for its efforts to create an equitable international economic order. I am pleased to note that the perceptible improvement in the international climate is generating a favourable impact on some long-standing issues such as the Middle East peace process. The initial steps taken two years ago towards a durable peace have now been followed by firm strides. Myanmar joins other nations in 22 welcoming the accord signed by Prime Minister Rabin and Chairman Arafat in Washington, D.C. on 28 September 1995. We hope that it will pave the way to a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in the Middle East. Just as the family of nations must work together to ensure international peace and stability, individual States must promote peace within their territories. I am happy to be able to say that in Myanmar peace reigns as never before and that the momentum for positive change continues. The Government has set 12 objectives in the political, economic and social fields and is working steadfastly to achieve them. A unique feature of Myanmar is that it is a union composed of well over a hundred national races. Unity among the different national races is essential for the preservation of our independence and sovereignty as well as for the economic and social progress of the country. The Government has adopted policies to prevent the disintegration of the Union, ensure the non-disintegration of national solidarity, and ensure the perpetuity of our country’s sovereignty. Moreover, with a view to building a peaceful, prosperous and modern nation, my Government has formulated and is pursuing clear objectives in the political, economic and social spheres. Allow me to focus briefly on some of the main issues on our national agenda. The first issue of ensuring the stability of the State. National reconsolidation is an indispensable component of my Government’s policy to achieve peace and tranquillity. A national convention has been convened to draft a new Constitution which would be in harmony with present-day realities and would reflect the aspirations of the entire nation. Secondly, in the economic sector guidelines have been formulated to promote all-round development of agriculture, which forms the mainstay of the nation’s economy. At the same time, Myanmar has laid out a welcome mat to foreign and domestic investors in order to attract capital and technical know-how. Thirdly, progress is sought in the social sector in order to buttress political stability and economic progress, which constitute foundation-stones for a peaceful, prosperous and modern State. We are engaged in efforts to strengthen the fabric of society by rekindling the spirit of patriotism and uplifting the moral integrity of our citizens. The Government is endeavouring to preserve the national character and cultural heritage and to raise the standard of education and health of the entire country. It is a source of immense pride and satisfaction that our efforts have achieved a significant measure of success in charting a new course for the country. Insurgency, which was born with our independence, is now coming to a close. The unprecedented return to the legal fold of 15 out of the 16 armed groups speaks volumes for our efforts at national reconsolidation. On 10 July 1995 the Government also lifted the restrictions placed on Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. The lifting of restrictions is unconditional. A large number of individuals against whom action had been taken in accordance with the laws of the land have also been released. I am also pleased to be able to say that we in Myanmar have been shouldering our responsibilities in combating the menace posed by narcotic drugs. The Myanmar Armed Forces have been mounting major offensives against drug traffickers, including the forces of Khun Sa. Since the end of 1988 there have been 823 engagements with the drug traffickers. In these clashes, 16 officers and 567 other ranks from the armed forces sacrificed their lives for the country, 55 officers and 1,744 other ranks were wounded in action and 153 weapons were lost. Enemy losses amounted to 720 killed, 118 captured, 221 surrendered and 708 assorted weapons seized. The numbers speak for themselves. We are determined to wage war against the drug traffickers as a matter of national responsibility and we see it as our duty to humanity. Our men have sacrificed life and limb so that the world may be rid of the scourge of narcotic drugs. The actions of the Myanmar Armed Forces deserve to be accorded due recognition, just as the Blue Helmets have been commended for their valour and courage. In order to succeed in the fight against narcotic drugs the Myanmar Government in May 1989 initiated an integrated rural-development programme of an unprecedented nature and scope in the border areas. Subsequently, in 1992 a separate ministry devoted to the development of border areas and national races was established. We are fully confident that once those areas are developed, the living standards of the local populace are raised and alternative means of livelihood are made available, poppy cultivation will be totally eradicated. We have relied on our own resources in promoting the development programmes in the border areas. Over 23 2,842 million kyats, the equivalent of US$ 400 million, have been expended for infrastructure-building. We are grateful that, recently, Japan approved a grant of 1 billion yen — US$ 10 million — to be used to purchase fertilizers and agricultural machinery and implements for the food- development programme in the border regions. It is our hope that others too will join hands with us to develop those regions in order that humanity may be freed from the menace posed by narcotic drugs. On the economic front, Myanmar has made important gains. The economy registered a growth rate of 6.8 per cent in 1994-1995, and prospects look bright for the future. Foreign investment in Myanmar totals US$ 2.7 billion and is expected to reach $4 billion by the end of the year. An indicator of the pace of the development of the economy is the dramatic increase in the production of the staple crop, rice, permitting the export of over 1 million tons. In the meantime, Myanmar is fulfilling the basic needs of the people and is striving to narrow the gap in living standards between urban dwellers and the rural population. In the realm of international relations Myanmar has consistently pursued a policy of peace and friendship with all States, and especially with neighbouring countries. A recent landmark event was Myanmar’s accession to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation at the twenty-eighth Ministerial Meeting of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) in Brunei, paving the way for Myanmar’s eventual entry into ASEAN. In the light of the political and socio-economic transformations taking place in the country and the increased cooperation with its neighbours, Myanmar continues to make important contributions to peace and stability in the region and in the world. The commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is a time for reflection and for resolution. I should like to avail myself of this opportunity to renew my country’s dedication and commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter and to pledge that Myanmar will contribute, however modestly, to the realization of a United Nations which will both serve the cause of world peace and fulfil the needs of humanity. In this new era we must strive to ensure that all nations can live together in peace and harmony. Every nation must also strive to keep its house in order. We have a responsibility in our time, just as the founding fathers of the United Nations had in theirs, to bequeath to the generations to come a world that is secure and peaceful. Mr President, let me congratulate you and your country, Portugal, on your election as President of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. At the same time, I wish to thank your distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy. Italy fully supports the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Spain in his capacity as Chairman of the European Union, and wishes to add the following considerations. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is an opportunity for us to reflect on the Organization’s past achievements and future role. The fundamental challenge of the United Nations has always been the maintenance of international peace and security, to which Italy has contributed by participating in several peace-keeping operations, in which some of our young men have lost their lives. Our experience has convinced us that the United Nations should expand its role in the areas of preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping and peace building. The activity that has provoked more controversy in recent years, peace enforcement, must take place under the mandate of the Security Council, but the Council can delegate such operations to coalitions of States or regional arrangements, thereby drawing on their valuable military expertise, particularly in matters of command and control, and preventing an overextension of United Nations resources. The responsibility for peace-keeping operations must be shared by the international community as a whole, and thus they should be financed through assessed rather than voluntary contributions, to be calculated on the basis of consensus, and in accordance with international commitments. In the former Yugoslavia, we have welcomed and constantly supported the diplomatic initiative undertaken by the United States Government and we sincerely hope that it marks the turning-point in the crisis. The renewal of diplomatic action has thus far scored major achievements: the Geneva agreement of 8 September on basic principles for a settlement in Bosnia, the Framework for a Cessation of Hostilities within the Sarajevo Exclusion Zone signed by the Bosnian Serbs in Belgrade on 14 September, and the joint statement issued on 26 September. For the first time in three years, there seem to be real prospects for a viable and stable peace in Bosnia and we cannot afford to miss this opportunity. It 24 is essential that Europe, the United States and Russia work together to overcome the remaining difficulties in the way of a general cease-fire and a peace agreement. We call upon all the parties concerned to come to the negotiating table, to show good faith and to resist the temptations to resort to military action to gain political advantages. We should also prepare well in advance for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the former Yugoslavia by crafting an approach that would reaffirm respect for human rights and the rights of minorities and foster civil and cultural coexistence, development and welfare throughout the area. In the Middle East and the Mediterranean, Italy applauds the determination and courage of Prime Minister Rabin, Foreign Minister Peres and Chairman Arafat in reaching yesterday’s agreement on the second stage of self-government. Every effort should be made to implement it, starting with the holding of democratic elections in the Palestinian territories as soon as possible. Italy will continue its commitment to provide economic support to the Palestinian people. Other situations in the Middle East give rise instead to tension and instability. We must contribute ideas and initiatives to efforts aimed at defusing these tensions and encouraging dialogue between opposing forces, except those whose programme and policy are violence. At the same time, Italy expects those countries trapped in self-inflicted isolation to engage in a constructive dialogue with the international community. It is of the utmost urgency that an international conference be convened in the Great Lakes region of Africa under the sponsorship of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity, with the goal of fostering the process of national reconciliation and allowing a rapid repatriation of the millions of refugees still living in camps. But there have also been positive developments in Africa, such as the historic events of 1994 in South Africa, the reconstruction currently under way in Mozambique, the agreements that brought an end to the bloody conflict in Angola, and the political and constitutional developments in Ethiopia. My country’s commitment did not stop at the participation of its military personnel in Mozambique. We also responded positively to the Secretary-General’s request for military advisers to train de-mining personnel in Angola. Latin America has made significant progress in the reaffirmation of democratic laws and respect for human rights. Italy supports the peace process in Guatemala and has sent a contingent to the United Nations human-rights monitoring Mission there, as it did to the peace-keeping operation in El Salvador. The Asian continent is teaching all of us a lesson in realism, hard work and investment in human resources. Its growing force and economic success have brought it to the forefront of the community of nations. Italy will actively participate in the new Working Group for the reform of the United Nations, paying special attention to the economic and social sectors, which need improvement and streamlining. While proceeding with determination, we must avoid hasty decisions in areas where caution and diligence should be the rule. We must keep our sights on results and effectiveness rather than on symbolic and artificially-imposed deadlines. This is true not only for the economic and social sectors, but also for the reform of the Security Council, which is already the subject of a detailed Italian proposal inspired by the principles of democracy, equitable geographical representation and efficiency. It aims at reconciling the aspirations and interests of the greatest possible number of countries. Our goal is a Security Council with more non-permanent members that is able to express the feelings and political will of the international community as a whole. Only a Council that is truly representative of the entire United Nations membership and closely linked to the General Assembly can make this goal a reality. However, if the financial crisis of the United Nations is not solved, budgetary problems could derail any reform proposals and send the entire system down the road to bankruptcy. The Secretary-General has repeatedly made this point, as has the President of the Council of the European Union. In the review of the scale of assessments, Italy hopes that the Member States will approve much-needed reforms, confirming beyond a shadow of a doubt their will fully and promptly to honour their financial obligations. In some sectors of weapons of mass destruction, important limitations have been agreed on and implemented. As we recently learned, biological weapons, among the most horrifying arms known to man, are still in our midst. It is our wish that the prohibition of biological weapons be backed up by an effective system of verification. 25 As for nuclear weapons, the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons paves the way for new goals in the field of disarmament. The primary goal is the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty by 1996. It is imperative that we achieve an outright ban on all nuclear testing, and my country will do its part to see that this becomes a reality. The Agenda for Development should be finalized by the end of the current session. The Agenda must reflect the conclusions and commitments made in the series of world conferences on the major social issues of our time, which will conclude with the World Conference on Food being hosted by Italy in the fall of 1996. The growth of the economy and of employment is fundamental to international political stability in an era of interdependence. An effective form of coordination between the United Nations system and the financial institutions of Bretton Woods should be devised. Multilateral trade and the free flow of investments could enhance the spread of equitable and sustainable development. With regard to the persistent problem of the debt of developing countries, Italy ranks second among creditor countries in its reduction of the external debt of countries with grave economic difficulties. The Italian Government is pleased with the work of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court and with the draft statute of the court prepared by the International Law Commission. Significantly, this draft explicitly does not include the death penalty among the sentences that can be handed down, in line with a position that Italy defended in this same Hall. My country hopes that the debate in the Sixth Committee will set the basis for convening a diplomatic conference in 1996 or 1997, which Italy has offered to host, to adopt the statute of the court. The Italian Government believes that the United Nations should step up its efforts, as should its specialized agencies and international financial institutions, to channel more resources towards human-centred activity. Democracy and respect for human rights must become the hallmark of our efforts to build a better future for our children. Let me first congratulate you, Sir, and wish you success in your new, most historically significant task. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations can be viewed as a time of retirement or as an opportunity for a new beginning and rejuvenation. We all bear a responsibility to maximize the possibility that the United Nations will not only endure the next 50 years but will thrive as the centrepiece of a new world order and international peace and security. Bosnia and Herzegovina is keenly aware of the pivotal role into which our country has been thrust. It is not a role we sought or one that we cherish. The successful settlement of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, consistent with the principles of sovereignty, democracy and respect for human rights engraved in the United Nations Charter, can be a catalyst for this new beginning for both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United Nations. However, a failure to honour basic principles of the United Nations Charter and international humanitarian law could be fatal to Bosnia and Herzegovina and threaten the vitality and integrity of the United Nations. This coming Thursday, we all hope to see another firm stride towards peace in the Middle East. Although much more needs to be done to secure the rights of all in the region and to bring about real stability and therefore true peace, the peace process in the Middle East is anchored by leaders who deserve our respect. They represent peoples who have been long maligned during the recent past. The substantial differences that still exist between these peoples are born out of previous injustices and out of conflicting claims to land. The war waged upon our country does involve a land grab and an aggression in violation of the United Nations Charter. However, more directly, the war is about ideology — ideology not of religion and ethnicity but of politics and tolerance. We have been the victims of genocide and our enemy is not defined by its ethnicity or religion but by the ideology of intolerance, dictatorship and fascism that it promotes. I have just come out of the negotiations with the members of the Contact Group on Bosnia and Herzegovina and my two colleagues from Croatia and Serbia and Montenegro. I wish that I could say that I was as confident about the prospects of success with respect to our negotiations as I am for the prospects of the negotiations in the Middle East. While the Middle East negotiations involve statesmen trying to resolve the competing claims of maligned peoples hungry for peace, we find among our negotiating partners at least two individuals already indicted by the War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague for genocide and other crimes against humanity. While the international media show pictures of the mass graves of civilians murdered in the campaign of “ethnic cleansing” and genocide that gave the Republika Srpska its very beginning, we are now negotiating with a team that includes the very indicted war criminals responsible for these murders and the mass graves. We really do hope that this negotiating process will bring about a step towards peace. We have come to the firm understanding that victory can be defined in more than one way. We are not seeking military victory over our enemies, even though our legal and moral status is consistent with absolute military triumph. We have learned to define our victory in terms of the lives that we can save and in the opportunity to rebuild and reinstate throughout our country democracy and human rights. We certainly do not seek revenge for the thousands of persons expelled, tortured, raped and murdered. We only seek not to allow war criminals responsible for these crimes to dictate our future and to seek legitimacy through the negotiating process. We do have confidence that the War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague will bring about justice 18 and will certainly know better how to address such war criminals than the negotiators. We are sincerely committed to, and do believe in, the negotiating process. Negotiations are consistent with our goal, which is to achieve peace, even if we have to make difficult, painful compromises. Through peace we hope to re-establish democracy and respect for human rights throughout the entire country and in that fashion gradually reintegrate our country. It is in many ways a risky and unprecedented road. None the less, we do believe that, in peace, the ideology of an open, free, democratic and tolerant society is strongest, while a closed, totalitarian and intolerant ideology is strengthened by conflict. We do recognize also that there are some legitimate considerations that have to be addressed in the negotiating process, including internal territorial delineations and means to rebuild the confidence of the population in the political processes and mechanisms that are designed to secure respect for human rights. Our country has been too scarred and too polarized by this war for us to expect that peace and reintegration will not require a special effort and mechanisms that may seem unnatural to many of us. None the less, there still remains a basic contradiction in the existing negotiating process. That is because it is theorized that dictators and despots as negotiators on one side are truly prepared to negotiate to bring about free and fair elections and democratic institutions as the basis for a new Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is because it is expected that hate mongers on one side are prepared to negotiate the establishment of institutions that in fact ensure respect for basic human rights. That is because war criminals on one side — the same side — are called upon to negotiate the creation of mechanisms that would facilitate the return of refugees and displaced persons, the very victims that these criminals actually subjected to “ethnic cleansing”. I have just come from a set of lengthy and difficult negotiations. The other side continues to refuse to accept the requirement that the future Parliament and Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be elected by direct elections by popular vote. We are being strongly encouraged — even pressured, if you will — to agree to what may be a process other than election by popular vote as the means by which the future Parliament and Presidency of our country would be selected. We have already been lectured that the negotiating process would collapse if we persisted in demanding that the extradition of war criminals to The Hague must be honoured by all authorities within the future Bosnia and Herzegovina, as is consistent with international law and the demands of the international community on our country as a whole. Let us be clear here once and for all on this. We will not settle for sham elections or other selection procedures in respect of our most basic governmental institutions that dictators and despots want in order to undermine real democracy and legitimize totalitarianism under the cover of an international peace agreement. The other side has been given the opportunity to choose its own negotiating team. But the fact that they have selected members who have already been formally indicted by the War Crimes Tribunal and others who may yet be indicted will not affect our demand that they be extradited to the Tribunal. The selection of these negotiators is their choice. But let me emphasize once again: we will not allow a negotiating process to shield war criminals from international justice — not our justice, but international justice. In fact, the success of the negotiating process will be measured by whether or not war criminals are brought to justice and by whether despots and dictators are swept out of power, not by the agreements that such criminals and dictators may sign. Elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be either free, fair or democratic until a basic respect for human rights is established, until war criminals are sent for trial to the War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague, until refugees and displaced persons are guaranteed the right and opportunity to return and to vote in these elections, and until overall conditions are established consistent with a free and open society. Finally, neither can there be real peace unless an environment consistent with democracy and respect for human rights is promoted by all, including the international community. Well, what does all this have to do with the United Nations? It certainly has a lot to do with Bosnia and Herzegovina as a Member of the United Nations. Simply 19 put, the United Nations Charter and basic international principles can be overlooked only temporarily. However, the United Nations cannot be the envisioned authority in the preservation of international peace and security if the United Nations Charter is overwhelmingly ignored in establishing the building blocks for peace. This is a universal principle with global application. As I mentioned, I have just come from the negotiations. I will be going back. We are surprised, we are angry that we have to negotiate over whether or not, in establishing peace and a new beginning in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the other side will be forced to accept direct, free and democratic elections. We are being told that we must accept compromise language that means less than this. If they will not accept the words today, we must be truly suspicious of their longer-term intentions ever to accept real peace and democracy, or whether they in fact just intend to perpetuate their hold on power and domination over an innocent Serb population. We have already made many painful compromises. We are prepared to make more — many more — in the search for a real peace. However, do not ask us — do not ask yourselves — to settle for concessions to dictatorships, to intolerance, to illegality, to criminality and hate. Do not allow yourselves and us to set aside the most basic principles of the United Nations Charter. We are prepared to work with all Member States in partnership for that real peace and the necessary compromises that all of us can live with. Allow me to begin my address with a personal consideration. Before arriving in New York to participate in this fiftieth session of the General Assembly, I thought over and over about the possible tangible outcome of this debate. In particular, I tried to determine the present power and strength of Member States — and especially of the small ones like my own — in terms of taking decisive actions aimed at preventing, monitoring and managing critical and conflict situations, and, in general, all those circumstances which run counter to the requirements and objectives of the United Nations. There is no need for too many words to describe all the evils besetting our international community and reflecting the disturbing and serious changes in its attitudes, and, above all, in its mentality. I believe, in fact, that the present situation in the former Yugoslavia alone summarizes and reflects in detail all of these factors. First of all, there is the war, which, because of its long duration, seems to have been generally accepted as an inevitable condition — a war that is still going on despite all the efforts to find a peaceful, negotiated and political solution; a war that has seen few truces — and those that have existed have not been respected; a war involving many sophisticated weapons, in spite of all solemn bans on them; and a war that is the consequence of speculation and the result of the search for profit at all costs. The United Nations must have the strength to take a stand against war. It is also evident that resolutions, condemnations, embargoes and the dispatching of peace- keeping forces — which sometimes prove useless, becoming innocent victims — are no longer sufficient. 22 Why should we not admit, then, that the United Nations, especially in the former Yugoslavia, has revealed its weakness and its inability to stop a massacre? There must be another solution. Let us reflect on more effective approaches and adapt the tools at our disposal to a world that seems to be increasingly pervaded by arrogance, presumption and evil. Although the United Nations has to its credit important achievements and positive results that deserve general acknowledgment and appreciation, the fiftieth anniversary of its foundation is not merely a commemorative event and cannot be regarded as such. This anniversary must also provide an opportunity to assess, review and, where necessary, make adjustments. Some structural changes in important United Nations bodies have been discussed for a number of years. A debate is under way on the reform of the Security Council, as is another — with less interest and vitality — on the possibilities for the smallest States fully to enjoy, without limitations, the rights and opportunities granted to them by the Charter. These are all important issues in which my country is deeply interested. Yet should we not give conflict management and resolution the highest priority? I am referring not only to international conflicts, but also to certain domestic situations, because of the serious violations and the unanimously condemned tragic consequences they entail. They should be considered matters of global concern. In this context, I must mention one of the most serious aspects of the present situation in the former Yugoslavia, namely human-rights violations. Those rights, enshrined in the documents of the United Nations, of the Council of Europe, of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and in other declarations, are all manifestly being infringed. Offences against human dignity are by far the gravest of all violations. They are based on a non- recognition of the human individual and of the freedom to practise a religion, to belong to a minority, to be different from the majority or even from the minority. I believe that the greatest challenge confronting humankind, as we approach the year 2000, is the practice of tolerance. War, hunger, the need to find gainful employment, the natural aspiration of individuals to improve their living standards, and class conflicts remain. The quest for supremacy by ethnic groups and minorities, which often results in practices of mass destruction, is no different from the old, repudiated theory of racial superiority, so painfully experienced by Europe during the last world war. We must remember also the total absence of protection for children and the lack of respect for women and their bodies, victims as they are of violence perpetrated on unbelievable racial grounds. These factors have made migrations an almost natural component of our international society. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has warned us of the onset of a new and widespread phenomenon — already seen in some African countries — which will be the logical consequence of the war in the former Yugoslavia. In its appeal, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) refers to the new category of internally displaced persons, who have been forced to leave their houses, deprived of the little property they had and of employment opportunities. At the same time, estimates show a constantly increasing flow of refugees, who have left their countries of origin in search of a place to live and of opportunities, however modest, that would enable them to start a new life. Thus, future generations will inevitably live in a different society from our own. Their neighbours or colleagues might be of a different colour or race, practise a different religion, perform traditional rites unknown to us, have different habits and approach problems, and life in general, in a completely different way. To ensure a just and peaceful coexistence, future generations will have to learn how to adapt to this new reality, to understand and accept the principle that people are all equal and free to be different. Solidarity must stem from this conviction and be translated into consistent behaviour. Solidarity should not be expressed merely through acts of charity or donations of superfluous things, with care taken not to lose one’s privileged economic position. There must be a commitment on the part of all States to make solidarity among them a way of life. Hunger, natural disasters and man-made environmental destruction, wars, famines, the endemic poverty of some regions and peoples — which is caused, or aggravated, by bad management on the part of those governing them — are no longer occasional events requiring an outburst of generosity. Today, these factors have become ever-present in the world and call for a concerted and lasting commitment. 23 Rich countries should make the necessary contributions to helping poor countries eradicate deeply rooted causes of distress by formulating a common, global, responsible and transparent policy. Due precaution must be taken not to overburden programmes agreed upon with administrative infrastructures which could be detrimental to financial resources and delay prompt intervention because of bureaucratic hurdles. San Marino believes that many other issues deserve attentive consideration and utmost priority. San Marino believes that it is high time to rethink the tool of the embargo, its effectiveness and, above all, its consequences. In the absence of armed conflicts, the international isolation of a State represents a valid political and moral instrument with which to exert pressure on that State as well as a strong incentive for it to change, especially if it has an anti-democratic regime and does not recognize or respect the rights of its citizens or the rights set forth by international law in its conduct towards other nations. However, when an embargo is imposed on a country for long periods, it also affects its social and commercial sectors. In this case, the main victim is not the regime but the population, which is already suffering from that system and probably has neither the strength nor the means to change or overthrow it. This is unacceptable. When the imposition of an embargo results in the misery of a population and in the deterioration of a country’s basic structures, including its health-care system, then that embargo must be reconsidered and adjusted to meet human-rights requirements. Capital punishment is another issue that is extremely important to my country and that has been repeatedly debated in the General Assembly. It is not difficult to understand that certain countries — principally those with a large territory and population — require strong deterrents in order to maintain order and protect their citizens’ lives, property and tranquillity. It is also generally recognized that some crimes, atrocities and grave offences need to be severely punished. Nevertheless, the death penalty is too grave a reaction and too great an offence to be accepted by those countries that believe in the right to life, in the possibility of true repentance and, above all, in the possibility of an error on the part of the individual pronouncing the verdict. The Republic of San Marino cannot disguise its deep anxiety with regard to the problem of armaments and their increase and, in particular, nuclear weapons. We hope for global, controlled and irreversible disarmament. Recourse to the rule of law, to the peaceful settlement of disputes, to mediation and to international forums is the indispensable foundation of a really advanced and civilized society. Unfortunately, the threat and use of force are still considered by many as the only instruments to be used in the survival of a State. Furthermore, the production and stockpiling of nuclear weapons, as well as nuclear tests, have become a pervasive feature of the contemporary world, posing a serious threat to the security of States, to the safeguarding of the environment and to the existence of many individuals. The concept of nuclear power as a deterrent is an elegant expression concealing its real danger. It is a shield dissimulating the desire for supremacy on the part of some States. In short, this is one of the old theories on which anti-democratic and anti-liberal regimes are based. It is our duty to save future generations from the threat of nuclear weapons. San Marino hopes that the opinion of the International Court of Justice requested by the General Assembly may promote the attainment of that objective. It is with great pleasure that I congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. You bring to the Assembly the wealth of your personal, political and academic experience and the positive contribution which Portugal has given to the work of the Organization throughout its 40 years of membership. At the dawn of democracy in your country, yours was a determining contribution towards freedom based on fundamental human rights and a State built on the rule of law. Your commitment to these principles required no mean measure of moral and physical courage. May I join other speakers in saluting the Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, Mr. Amara Essy, who skilfully led the forty-ninth session and continued to promote the revitalization of the General Assembly within a broader framework of strengthening the United Nations system. It is with great pleasure that we are convinced that, under your able leadership, Mr. President, Member States will continue to strive to ensure that this Assembly reflects with immediacy and with clarity that which the world community desires of the United Nations. The maintenance of international peace through the advancement of social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom for all was 50 years ago, and remains today, the onerous but vital mission entrusted to this Organization by the peoples of the United Nations. In looking back at the past 50 years, we must exercise realistic restraint. It would be a mistake to recall only those instances when our efforts were crowned with success. It would be equally erroneous if we were to judge the efficacy of the United Nations by highlighting only those complex instances when results failed to do justice to our collective will and endeavour. The determination to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war was what inspired nations and brought them together to form this Organization towards the end of the Second World War. We have managed to 20 avoid a global conflict. This is in itself a great achievement, one that inspires hope and confidence. Yet realistic restraint is particularly called for at this moment. Grief still echoes over the explosions of cannon fire aimed at villages and cities under siege. During its first 45 years the United Nations was held hostage to the prevailing cold war logic. Yet even during those years, when world peace was strapped to the terrifying balance of nuclear destructive potential, there were moments of great significance. The process of decolonization, even if there was suffering at times, remains a peak achievement in humankind’s history during the twentieth century. It reaffirmed faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small. That process paved the way for the achievement of independence by peoples spread around the globe, who today are represented in this Hall as sovereign nations. The five years since the end of the cold war have witnessed a world community subjected to the most intense periods of instability. High expectations violently oscillated with the doldrums of despair; the exuberant relief of peoples ridding themselves of totalitarian rule alternated with the miserable anguish of occupation and “ethnic cleansing”; rays of hope were paralleled by violent explosions of civil strife; nuclear non-proliferation was countered by a devastating spread in the traffic in conventional weaponry; peace for some was matched by wanton slaughter for others. Never have mankind’s aspirations been so great, yet never have they been so formidably challenged. Such events cannot but impact on our concept of security. The primary mandate of the United Nations is “To maintain international peace ..., and to that end: to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace”. How can we ensure and implement this commission? Five years ago, in the General Assembly, I had the honour of calling on the United Nations to implement the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter with regard to regional arrangements. Later, at the Helsinki follow-up meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), Malta proposed that the CSCE declare itself a regional arrangement, in terms of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter — which it did. It is still too early to assess the impact and full potential of that development, particularly in view of the complex situations that already existed and continued to develop in the CSCE region. However, we are convinced that the future ability and effectiveness of the United Nations in containing, addressing and resolving situations of conflict is dependent on the creation and consolidation of such regional arrangements. The world has witnessed communities rediscover the oldest recipes for the generation of human misery. Most of us believed that tolerance was universally embraced, that it was strong enough to have imbued the manner in which we view elements that give nations and ethnic and religious groups their rightful identity. The abuse of these elements as a platform and weapon of war cannot but instil in us determination to consolidate structures that promote a permanent confidence-building dialogue. During the darkest hours of the cold war the CSCE learnt that confidence-building was the most effective guarantee in the promotion of a wider concept of security. That conviction remains as we seek to identify the supporting structures for a European security architecture. The broad elements of the emerging European security architecture are already in place. On one hand, the CSCE, now changed into the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), is transmuting the notion of confidence- and security-building from a remedial measure of the age of antagonism to a tool of partnership in the new international environment. On the other hand, the enlarging European Union, of which Malta expects to become full member in the near future, provides a unique and ever-deepening dimension of the process of regional cooperation. Malta has always seen membership of the European Union in terms that encompass not only economic but also much broader political dimensions. In this spirit, membership of the Union constitutes for us both the natural culmination of our significant economic and social development of recent years and — more important — the opportunity to participate in a collective endeavour that consolidates union within Europe and stability within the region, thereby providing a solid anchorage for those fundamental values of democracy, the rule of law and the observance of human rights to which we are deeply attached. 21 Comprehensive security is distinct from notions of defence. It is much wider in scope. It is more appropriate for treating issues not necessarily or immediately linked with a military threat or outbreak of conflict. Comprehensive regional security structures could be the most effective instruments for identifying, analysing and containing the original root causes of potential conflict. Such regional arrangements cannot operate in isolation. They must take into account the work of other international mechanisms that help signal developments which, in the short or long term, could destabilize regional or international security. Early-warning systems are an essential ingredient for success. To save succeeding generations from the scourge of war we must cultivate and nurture stability. Equilibrium in the socio-political environment cannot be ensured through suppression or imposition. It requires the development of effective rapid-response mechanisms to tackle problem areas that generate instability. A multifaceted approach demonstrates an awareness of the manner in which different issues, if left unattended or unresolved, fester and spread to threaten society. Weaving such vital areas as human rights, fundamental freedoms and social justice into the broader network of comprehensive security is the foundation for the launching of stability pacts which give peoples and nations the reassurance of peace, dignity and freedom. In this respect Malta has been active in promoting security and cooperation in the Mediterranean. The obstacles are enormous, but the perils that threaten to transform this historic middle-sea into a permanent lake of instability are even greater. Though aware of the difficulties in the way of its final implementation, we have supported the idea of a conference on security and cooperation in the Mediterranean, and within this concept of stability in the Mediterranean we have ourselves proposed two distinct but correlated ideas, namely, that of a council of the Mediterranean and a stability pact for the Mediterranean. Both are based on the notion of dialogue in that region of turbulence. The setting up of a council of the Mediterranean through an association of Mediterranean States at the level of Ministers of Foreign Affairs would facilitate cooperation at the highest political level. A parliamentary dimension to that association further enhances this joint action and ensures a wider spectrum of participation by the elected representatives in the identification and solution of problem areas of common concern. The measured success of the Stability Pact for Europe, first launched by France, has underlined the need for applying this notion to the Mediterranean region itself. With this in mind, at the concluding conference on the Stability Pact for Europe, Malta launched the concept of a stability pact for the Mediterranean based on the round- table system and not only bringing together parties to disputes but also making possible the discussion of issues which can serve to pre-empt the development of new threats to the security of peoples and States in the region. The generally positive reception which this notion has encountered encourages us to pursue its development further. Malta welcomes the holding of a Euro- Mediterranean Ministerial Conference at Barcelona in November to consider future economic and political relations as a milestone in the consolidation of regional cooperation. The Mediterranean’s wealth lies in its heritage of cultural, religious and social diversity. A forced mutation of this rich mosaic into uniformity would be destabilizing. Confidence-building and mutual understanding create the route that leads to security and cooperation. We must walk that arduous path. Within multicultural diversity we must discover the common values that help foster dialogue. This requires shedding preconceived notions. It requires strong political will. It requires that we supplant instinctive mistrust with a spirit of mutual respect. The key protagonists in the Middle East crisis have demonstrated how political will and dialogue can overcome obstacles that for decades appeared insurmountable. We have supported the peace process and will continue to support it, and we welcome the official signing in Washington today of the agreements reached last Sunday in Taba, Egypt, by Chairman Arafat and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres on behalf of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel, respectively. A just and long-lasting peace in the Middle East requires a solution that takes into account both the right of peoples to self-determination and the right of States to secure boundaries. May this process of dialogue inspire others who still resist this unique human tool of conflict resolution. In particular, we are deeply concerned that the division of Cyprus has so far remained impervious to the efforts of the international community, especially those of 22 the Secretary-General, to find a just and lasting peaceful solution. We predict that persistent efforts in this regard will eventually prevail. The Mediterranean process is of great significance to the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. The time that the United Nations has dedicated over the years to defusing and resolving issues which threaten peace in the region illustrates the weight which we attach to the spill-over potential of current crises. More important, however, is the fact that a successful Mediterranean process could inspire patterns of cooperation in other areas characterized by multicultural diversity. Important as it is to create forums that make it easier for political leaders to enter into dialogue on and identify common strategies, the essential ingredient for long-term stability, is the building of peace in the minds of all women and men. The United Nations and its agencies have had a major role in the effort to identify common strategies for future achievements built on knowledge of and respect for the multicultural diversity of the world community. During the past 12 months three world conferences have touched on the most crucial aspects of human rights and freedoms, the dignity of the human person and the right of all peoples to development. At Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing we worked together, conscious of our cultural differences, yet aware that diversity need not and must not impede our common endeavours if we are mindful of our common heritage, our common concern and our common interest. This respect for multicultural identities has been evident in the commitments undertaken by States and in the principles which inspire the platforms of action. It must remain ever-present in the mind of all United Nations officials entrusted with its implementation. One other area in which the United Nations has traditionally been very active is that of arms control and disarmament. Over the past 12 months the international community has had the satisfaction of seeing a successful conclusion to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) Review Conference, with the agreement on the indefinite extension of the non-proliferation regime. Malta is proud to have taken an active role in helping to bring about this agreement. We now look forward to an early agreement on the comprehensive ban on the testing of all nuclear weapons. We urge all countries, in particular the nuclear States, to take all possible measures to ensure a successful conclusion, during the coming 12 months, of the negotiations which have been taking place within the Conference on Disarmament since 1994. Anniversaries encourage us to drink from the original source for inspiration. The United Nations Charter was forged at a time when the struggle against a totalitarian world vision was nearly complete. The horrors of war were still tangible, but so also was the fear of what could have been the fate of humankind had a totalitarian vision prevailed. The Charter established within its principal organs a delicate balance based on the equal rights of nations, large and small, and a pragmatic awareness of the particular role which certain States had in ensuring international peace and security. During the past five years we have assisted in an intense discussion among Member States on whether or not there exists the need to evolve, reform or restructure the principal organs of the Charter. I am personally honoured to have been the first President of the General Assembly to chair such a discussion within the Organization and to make a presidential motion on this matter approved by the Assembly which ensured continuity. This process was later to give fruit in the formation of the Working Groups which examined the revitalization of the General Assembly and are still studying the different options relative to the restructuring of the Security Council. In this ongoing process of review and evaluation, we have failed to take into account the future of the Trusteeship Council. Aware that the Trusteeship Council had nearly completed its responsibilities for the Trust Territories for which it was responsible, five years ago I proposed to the General Assembly a new, additional role — that of trustee of the different areas of common heritage. It is because of the uncertainty as to the future of the Council and the diverse opinions on this matter that we have requested the inclusion of an item on the agenda of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session entitled “Review of the role of the Trusteeship Council”. We are confident that when the item is discussed by the Assembly — first in plenary and later within the Sixth Committee — Member States will bring and share their views with that same openness and frankness that have characterized the discussion of the other two principal organs. Naturally we shall, on that occasion, expound 23 further our ideas on how the Trusteeship Council could evolve. There is one aspect which I consider it opportune to underline at this stage: the notion of the United Nations as a trustee. The notion that the Charter envisages is unique to the Trusteeship Council. It is a notion which, at the time, was immediately explicable and applicable to the Territories placed under its care. Today, in a world that has become a global community, we are aware that the different areas of common heritage protected by convention require coordination by a trustee. To avoid fragmentation, dispersal or duplication of effort in areas which are our common heritage, our common concern and our common interest, we should explore the manner in which this principal organ of the United Nations can evolve that notion of trust, which was its major premise, to meet our present-day needs, an evolution that ensures that the Trusteeship Council holds in sacred trust the common heritage of humankind and acts as a guardian of the interests of future generations. During the past months we have all invested much time and energy in generating public awareness on the importance of the fiftieth anniversary. The peoples of the United Nations are sensitive to what we do and decide in this forum, not out of mere curiosity or an interest in international affairs, but because the decisions we take have a direct bearing on their personal lives. They did so in the past, when decolonization brought sovereignty to States and freedom to many millions. They do so at present, when the United Nations and its blue insignia represent the last beacon of hope for those terrorized by the brutality of war, famine or disease. Likewise, our decisions have a bearing on the lives of those who serve the Organization in the field, on the fate of the families of peace-keepers killed in United Nations operations and all those of whom we expect sacrifice to ensure the success of sanctions. We pay a special tribute to all United Nations peace- keepers, and in particular those killed while on mission. Their dedication to duty, humanitarian concern and peace is honoured by the whole international community. Our deliberations this year have a particular significance. On them hinge the hopes of millions. As we take decisions, may we continue to be inspired by that commitment to the maintenance of international peace, the advancement of social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom for all peoples, which is the platform of action set forth in the Charter. Only then will we rightfully deserve to be regarded as trustees of the common concerns, common interests and common heritage which the peoples of the United Nations have charged to our care. It is a great honour to represent Canada here today as we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations during this general debate. Canada has always been among the strongest supporters of the United Nations, not only in word but also in deed. In 1945 we were, through Canadian Prime Minister Mackenzie King, an original signatory of the United Nations Charter. Ambassador John Humphreys helped write the 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Successive Canadian Ambassadors to the United Nations have distinguished themselves in the service of the Organization, as have countless Canadian negotiators in areas ranging from disarmament to trade to development. In addition, Lester B. Pearson won a Nobel Peace Prize for his contribution to the success of the United Nations in establishing the first peace-keeping operation, in 1956. All these Canadians had a unifying purpose: to promote progress in implementing the United Nations Charter, which enshrines the commitment of the people of the United Nations to the advancement of humanity. Of course, there have been criticisms of the Organization; many are legitimate and require attention. It is clear, however, that the international community remains committed to the goals of the Charter and to the United Nations as the primary instrument for global problem solving. The United Nations deserves our continued support. If we look at the record of just the last few years, the United Nations has conducted successful peace-keeping operations in Cambodia, Mozambique and Haiti. Thanks to the United Nations, in this decade alone 5 million children will grow up normally, children who would otherwise have been paralysed by polio. This year the United Nations is working, as it does every year, to ensure a better life for the almost 23 million refugees in the world. Global resolve to support the United Nations and to advance the interests of the international community has recently been underscored by such successes as the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. At the Halifax Summit in June, chaired by our Prime Minister, Jean Chrétien, the P-8 (Political Eight) leaders reaffirmed their strong commitment to the United Nations system of international institutions and added their ideas for revitalizing it. The central message is clear: we must take this momentous opportunity to confirm and renew our commitment to the United Nations. To do so, we require a renewed vision for the next 50 years. This vision must 5 be centred on not just striving for, but achieving, human security on the basis of the freedom of people everywhere to live in peace and without fear, to be prosperous and enjoy equality, justice before the law and knowledge. The Members of the United Nations must work together now to renew the Organization and its agencies and programmes and to help make this vision a reality. In Canada’s view pursuing this vision requires a focus on three interlinked objectives: preventing conflict; responding quickly when conflict occurs; and supporting peace-building efforts on an ongoing basis. I will address each objective in turn. (spoke in French) The first priority must be to help the United Nations better protect people from conflict. The United Nations has had important successes in the past few years but, unfortunately, there have also been set-backs. If the United Nations is to adapt to a changing world, if confidence in the Organization is to be restored, we must learn from the failures of Bosnia, Somalia and Rwanda and build on the successes of Cambodia, Namibia and El Salvador. Preventive action, as the Secretary-General has laid out so well in “An Agenda for Peace”, takes many forms, from economic development programmes to mediation, to the preventive deployment of personnel — as, for example, in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia — from the investigation of human rights violations to the conclusion of agreements limiting the spread of weapons of mass destruction. Prevention saves lives, forestalls untold human suffering and makes the best use of limited resources. Last year I announced at this podium that Canada was providing a list of Canadian experts available to the United Nations for preventive diplomacy missions. We are also taking advantage of our membership in La Francophonie, in the Commonwealth and in regional organizations such as the Organization of American States (OAS) and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) precisely in order to work towards enhancing the ability of these organizations to prevent conflicts. Our Prime Minister, Jean Chrétien, is currently pressing for an expanded Commonwealth role in democratization and good governance, which are two key elements of conflict prevention. I recently convened a meeting of La Francophonie in Ottawa to generate recommendations for it to strengthen its role in conflict prevention, particularly in Africa. These recommendations will be presented to the leaders, the Heads of State and Government, gathered at the Francophone Summit to be held in Cotonou, Benin, in December of this year. Prevention also means deterring crimes against humanity. Canada strongly supports the early establishment of an international criminal court, which will, we hope, deter such crimes in the future but, should they occur, would punish the perpetrators. The recently approved Platform for Action at the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing lends further impetus in this area. Our recent experiences in the former Yugoslavia and in Rwanda emphasize the link between security and human rights. The United Nations many human rights mechanisms produce a wealth of information that could help us identify and understand potential areas of conflict. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has a role to play in enhancing the early warning functions of the United Nations. The experience of the Human Rights Field Operation in Rwanda revealed the need for the more effective coordination of United Nations field missions. Canada has commissioned work on the human rights components of field operations and on stand-by arrangements for them. This work will yield recommendations on ways to integrate human rights into United Nations field operations, in a way consistent with the approach outlined in “An Agenda for Peace”. One of the priorities of Canada’s foreign policy and one of the best ways to renew commitment to the United Nations consists of adopting a coherent approach to the prevention and management of complex emergencies. Averting crisis requires more flexibility and speed in decision-making and in implementation. In this regard Canada supports the proposal for a conference on security, stability and development in the Great Lakes region of Central Africa. We also reaffirm our strong support for the United Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs. (spoke in English) Another major focus of Canada’s preventive action is arms control and disarmament, especially concerning nuclear weapons. The historic decision to extend the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) indefinitely provides a foundation for further important gains on nuclear disarmament. We must now complete the comprehensive test-ban treaty negotiations as early as possible in 1996 in order to permit its 6 signature at the General Assembly next September. An agreement to begin negotiations on a treaty to ban the production of fissionable material for nuclear weapons is currently held up. We squander such opportunities at our peril. Canada calls on all members of the Conference on Disarmament to proceed urgently with the cut-off negotiations. Regrettably our efforts to take preventive action are eroded by the continued global imbalance between spending on armaments and spending on human development. Multilateral institutions should take trends in military and other unproductive spending into consideration. All States Members of the United Nations should comply with the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms which will, we hope, be expanded soon to include military holdings and national procurement activities. Together, interested countries could develop criteria to identify excessive military expenditures and appropriate international responses. Canada has taken some initiatives in this regard in recent months and we look forward to productive negotiations with many Member States here. When a United Nations preventive diplomacy operation stumbles and efforts to prevent conflict fail, Member States all too often criticize the United Nations. But much of the blame for the failures of the Organization lies with the Member States themselves who do not provide it with the tools needed for success. These tools are never needed more than when a crisis erupts. Last year I discussed the problems the United Nations has encountered in mobilizing its peace operations to respond to crises. Canada’s long experience with peace- keeping has convinced us that improvements are possible. The international community’s slow response to the horrible and deeply distressing events in Rwanda was very much in our mind. It was in this context that I announced that Canada would examine ways to improve the capacity of the United Nations to react quickly to such events. Today I have the honour of presenting to the Assembly Canada’s report entitled “Towards a Rapid Reaction Capability for the United Nations” as a special Canadian contribution to the United Nations during its fiftieth anniversary year. It presents practical proposals for enhancing the United Nations rapid reaction capability in the field of peace operations. I believe the proposals will both help save lives and conserve scarce resources. The report expresses the view of the Government of Canada, but considerable care was taken to consult with other Governments, non-governmental organizations and intergovernmental institutions. We are also deeply grateful to the many experts from many countries who have lent us their time and wisdom. The main proposal of the report is the 'Vanguard Concept'. This concept will permit the United Nations to assemble, from Member States, a multifunctional force of up to 5,000 military and civilian personnel, and, with the authorization of the Security Council, quickly deploy it under the control of an operational-level headquarters. This operational headquarters would be responsible for the advance preparations that are crucial if rapid reaction is to work. Forces will be provided under enhanced stand- by arrangements with Member States. Our other proposals seek to enhance training, to create more efficient logistics and transportation, and to strengthen the planning efforts of the entire United Nations system. Let me say that none of the 26 recommendations in the report requires Charter reforms. But the search for immediate, practical solutions must not preclude more visionary possibilities. In this regard, the report looked at longer-term questions, such as advanced technology in support of the United Nations peace operations, the feasibility of a permanent group of civilian police, the idea of a United Nations Standing Emergency Group, a permanent force as has been considered by our colleague from the Netherlands; and the question of independent sources of revenue for the United Nations system. (spoke in French) I believe that the recommendations in the report, if implemented, will strengthen the United Nations capacity for more rapid, effective and successful peace operations. They will help restore confidence in the ability of the United Nations to respond to crises. We are conscious of the fact that words are not enough. In the words of a former military adviser to the United Nations: “We can’t deploy studies.” For Canada this report is only the first step in translating ideas into action. To meet the growing need for civilian personnel during crises, Canada will offer the United Nations secondment or the loan of civilian personnel on a short-term urgent basis to help in the development of a fully trained capacity in the areas of 7 human rights, legal advice, humanitarian assistance, and other aspects of a rapid civilian response to crises. Last week Canada sent the Secretary-General an updated inventory of Canadian personnel and equipment on stand-by to the United Nations, including technical information that would be crucial to rapid response. We are now prepared to negotiate with the United Nations a more detailed memorandum of understanding on stand-by arrangements, which would include more information on readiness and capability standards. Our report devotes special attention to the creation of an operational-level headquarters as the heart of the “Vanguard” concept. Canada is prepared to help in establishing its headquarters should the United Nations decide to accept this recommendation. We have already made a significant number of military personnel available to the United Nations on secondment or on loan. We are prepared to make available additional personnel, both civilian and military, in order to bring this idea closer to realization. The time for moving towards fundamental improvements in the way the United Nations responds to crises is now. A number of countries have advanced proposals similar to Canada’s and there are many new and interesting proposals for change coming also from the non- governmental sector. Follow-up is of key importance. We need to marshal our energies, to determine the most promising areas of action, and to move quickly towards putting words into action. Over the coming weeks and months, Canada intends to work closely with like-minded countries from around the world, and, of course, with the United Nations Secretariat to this end. The ongoing work of peace-building must continue alongside preventive diplomacy and now rapid reaction operations. Indeed, peace-building involves a wide range of activities. Much of the work needed for articulating a broad vision of human security has already been done in the series of United Nations conferences in the economic and social fields, culminating in the Platform for Action recently adopted at the United Nations Conference on Women. It sets out a comprehensive view of sustainable development, which balances economic and social agendas for the purpose of promoting the well-being of society. This global consensus offers an opportunity to restore confidence in the work of the United Nations system in these fields, and to dispel the perception of aimlessness and drift. The United Nations can continue to play an invaluable role in forging global agreements on development goals, in advocating core values, and in responding to humanitarian and development needs. We must seek to anchor change in a commitment to people-centred sustainable development. A strong emphasis must be placed on the reduction of poverty and on the integration of the poorest countries into the world economy. However, no single country, or even group of countries, can achieve global results alone. We are, therefore, determined to work with all Member States to pursue these goals sufficiently and effectively. Let me take this opportunity to set out some ideas on the way to renew commitment to the economic and social work of the United Nations. First, there is a need to achieve the right balance between wide-ranging debate and decisions on which programmes should be adopted. The justified breadth of debate does not mean that United Nations programs should be established to address every problem. There are many other actors who play important roles. The United Nations should focus on what it is uniquely equipped to achieve. Secondly, there is a need for a fresh sense of the real goals of development. The outcomes of the major conferences are at the core, and their distillation and coordinated follow-up should be a touchstone for the United Nations in the economic and social fields. The roles and functions of organizations and agencies should be examined and refocused to ensure that they are oriented to future needs. The Agenda for Development is an important opportunity to initiate the institutional change required. Improving cooperation with and among specialized agencies is essential to give limited resources some impact. The Economic and Social Council must take more responsibility for policy coordination within the United Nations system. A start was made this summer in Geneva. The recent establishment of the United Nations Programme on AIDS is a promising example. There, the executive heads of agencies and programmes must demonstrate leadership, particularly in coordinating the follow-up to international conferences and ensuring that duplication, overlapping and needless spending are eliminated as far as possible. 8 We must effectively harness the complementary roles of the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions. To ensure a smooth transition from emergencies to rehabilitation, improved cooperation in crises must be an immediate priority. I urge the Secretary-General and the leaders of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to propose new arrangements for post-crisis assistance. They could also establish a high-level working group to consider how to strengthen cooperation, both at the Organization’s Headquarters and elsewhere, in areas such as data collection, analysis and reporting. The World Trade Organization (WTO) should also participate in relevant aspects of this work. We have all come to understand the extent to which human security is indivisible from environmental security. More and more conflicts are arising following disagreement over the use of finite natural resources. The United Nations therefore has a key role to play in promoting sustainable development. Canada welcomes the recent success of United Nations conferences in some areas of international resource-management operations, such as the United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. Our goal is concrete, internationally sanctioned conservation measures. The same objective applies to our efforts to ensure the sustainable management of forests and arable land. The Rio Summit achieved landmark agreements on climate change and biodiversity. Canada welcomes the progress made by the Commission on Sustainable Development and by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), in clarifying their respective roles in following up these agreements in collaboration with Member States. (spoke in English) In speaking about the three elements — preventive action, rapid reaction and peacebuilding — I wish to emphasize the need to see them as mutually reinforcing. United Nations Member States must be committed to all three in order for any one to be successful. To ensure a renewal of the United Nations vision through these actions, we must also reassert our commitment to assuring the effectiveness of its key bodies. Although I could speak of many United Nations agencies in this regard, because of its critical role in promoting the vision of the next 50 years, I will limit my remarks to the Security Council. The Security Council’s mandate to help prevent disputes and to resolve conflicts confer on it unique responsibilities. The binding nature of some decisions adds further weight to its deliberations. In recent years the Council has experienced a period of intensified activity. It has also experienced setbacks from which we can all learn. One lesson of particular importance is that members of the Security Council, especially the permanent five, need to demonstrate a firm commitment to the implementation of their own decisions. For Canada, the need for more open, transparent and collegial decision-making is crucial. There must be closer consultations with countries contributing personnel and equipment in order to help implement Council decisions. Here, real progress has been achieved of late, which Canada warmly welcomes. This progress needs to be institutionalized. The credibility and effectiveness of the Council in promoting international peace and security is also a key element. Although we do not regard expansion of its membership as a panacea, it is clear that composition plays a role in fostering credibility and effectiveness. The Council is no longer as representative as it once was. Its legitimacy,and perhaps also the quality of its decisions, would be greatly enhanced by more representation from those countries that contribute the most to the maintenance of international peace and security and to the broad purpose of the Organization — that is, the key criterion for non-permanent membership enshrined in Article 23 of the Charter. Perhaps it is time to reflect together on those purposes to which Article 23 refers. They would surely include participation in United Nations peace operations, commitment to arms control and disarmament, support for good-neighbourly relations, humanitarian assistance, human rights, development cooperation and the promotion of civil society. An understanding among Member States along these lines would help in the selection of non-permanent Council members, whether on the existing basis or on a modified basis. A recurring theme throughout my remarks has been the need for the United Nations to marshal its scarce resources more effectively. There is simply no other option if we are to restore confidence in this Organization and in the specialized agencies. As the Secretary-General has stressed, the Organization’s financial crisis is 9 crippling its effectiveness and its credibility. We cannot allow this to happen. The answer lies in addressing both expenditure and revenue. Many Governments, including Canada’s, are facing difficult budgetary decisions. We have had to live with expenditure reductions in real terms while maintaining priority programmes. International organizations must respect the same pressures as domestic Governments. The United Nations and its agencies must focus on key objectives and reduce overhead spending in order to protect priority programmes. In fact, there are many steps that chief executive officers can take to increase efficiency and to reduce costs without impairing programmes, and we should all insist that they do so. Similarly, many agencies’ budgets should be held at present levels, wherever possible, if not reduced. Member States must work collectively to this end. Canada strongly supports the proposal put forward by the Secretary-General for an efficiency task force to address these issues. We are prepared to contribute both expertise and personnel to get it started soon. While the United Nations needs to do more to limit spending and to promote efficiency, its financial crisis would be significantly alleviated if its Member States were to meet their financial obligations in full, on time and without conditions. Canada calls on all Member States to do so. We cannot accept that Member States, some of which rank among the richest countries in the world, fail to meet their financial obligations to this institution. This is even more difficult to accept when we consider that a number of the poorest countries in the world meet their payments in full and on time. Indeed, among the merely 60 Member States that had met their regular budget obligations to the United Nations fully by 31 July of this year, 32 were developing countries. Unfortunately, 71 other Member States had made no payment at all. Almost 100 countries still owe money from previous years, including, I have to say, several members of the Security Council. The majority of Member States appear content to approve programmes, appropriations and assessments without honouring the obligations to which they are committed. This is unacceptable and cannot be allowed to continue. The General Assembly’s High-level Working Group considering the United Nations financial plight should begin looking at the establishment of incentives to pay. It should also agree on an equitable method of sharing the burden, free of the distortions that characterize the present scale of assessments. In conclusion, let me say that I have sought to pay tribute to this Organization’s achievements, and to emphasize that Canada strongly supports the United Nations. We are prepared to contribute concretely and actively to its revitalization and renewal. But confidence will be restored and commitment renewed only through a partnership in which Member States live up to their commitment and focus on key priorities that respond to human-centred goals for sustainable security and development. If we are successful, and frankly I truly believe that we will be successful, I have no doubt that 50 years from now our successors will be able to praise, without hesitation or qualification, the record of our Organization’s first 100 years. Please allow me to offer sincere congratulations to Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I would like to emphasize that this session of the General Assembly, in the year of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, will occupy a special place in the history of the Organization. In that context, on behalf of Turkmenistan and President Niyazov, I wish to express our sincere appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts to build a new kind of international relations for the Organization. The opportunity for our State to participate in the affairs of the world community as an independent entity flowed, of course, from those events that the Secretary- General, in his report on the work of the Organization, describes as “the momentum in world affairs that appeared so dramatically at the outset of this decade.” (A/50/1, para. 4) Serenely, and immensely grateful for its good fortune, Turkmenistan embarked on its independent course and, without any political romanticism, began to carry out its programme of building a nation-State and a system of foreign ties and seeking optimal ways for participating in international relations. This was a quest for Turkmenistan’s place in the United Nations system and a model of statehood reflecting its national mentality and the traditions of the Turkmen people. Since that time, in our four years of independent existence, we have travelled a great distance, and each step we have taken along the way has been both in the national interest of Turkmenistan and in the interest of stabilizing the region and strengthening international security, in the constant conviction that these two are inseparable. After engaging in broad contacts within the system of Asian States, we have once again become convinced of the correctness of the conclusion drawn at the beginning of this century that Asia, with its enormous human, natural and intellectual resources, had every possibility of becoming the most prosperous region in the world. However, throughout the entire history of the Asian continent, instability and protracted regional conflicts have often, unfortunately, constituted the political background, and this has significantly complicated the solution of problems of internal development. Turkmenistan has set as its main priority the preservation of internal stability and social peace in carrying out radical reforms in building its State and its economy. This is vitally necessary in order for us to take advantage of our enormous resource potential. But that important condition is not the only one: the other is stability around us so that we can freely and naturally develop our trade and economic relations with other States. This question is of special interest, in view of the world’s share of hydrocarbon deposits and other mineral and biological resources that Turkmenistan possesses. Turkmenistan is at one of the world’s important crossroads of political and economic interests, in a regional dimension and beyond. Aware of this geopolitical reality, Turkmenistan is prepared to participate in the most constructive way in establishing new relations in the region and to promote efforts to establish there overall stability, security and effective and mutually advantageous cooperation on the basis of the principles of the United Nations. We believe that with the breakup of the Soviet Union and the Iron Curtain’s disappearance from its borders with its southern neighbours, a new region has emerged, a new community of States of Central Asia, the Middle East, South-West Asia, the Caucasus and part of the Near East. This region is united by common development interests, the restoration of historical trade and economic relations and cultural and humanitarian traditions. This was the logic that led to the idea of active participation in the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO). I would like to emphasize that the ECO’s configuration fully corresponds to our concept of a new region’s emergence following the disintegration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: the restoration of a natural gravitational attraction between these States that for decades were artificially divided by an ideological barrier, which conditions for them the priority of transportation, telecommunications and energy 34 programmes. Underlying these processes lies the principle of absolute economic feasibility, based on the mutual interests of the member States of the ECO and the absence of any political, territorial or other disputes between them. As for the internal tensions that persist in some countries, we should stress that economic cooperation, participation and joint projects will create fertile soil for constructive solutions to these problems. Turkmenistan believes that this 10-country organization, emerging at such an important time, will open up additional possibilities for the newly independent States to the south of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Furthermore, the basis of our political and economic strategy is the principle of reasonable pragmatism and the preservation of positive experiences and ties from the past. We have a politically new type of State. Its independent status cannot be achieved by denying the realities of the past and old ties that can still serve our higher interests today. In this respect, our relations with Russia and other partners in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) have remained a key component of Turkmenistan’s foreign policy. I would like to lay special emphasis on the fact that the obligations that neutral Turkmenistan has assumed have been set out in our Constitution and have been supported by the people. These obligations not only take account of national interests but also objectively promote the development of cooperation in the region, and they have enormous potential for stimulating the peacemaking processes in the area and for promoting the efforts of the world community, primarily here at the United Nations, to rid it of obsolete measures and adopt preventive measures to defuse disputes and conflicts. I would like to set out some parameters of Turkmenistan’s neutrality initiative in order to make sure that it is correctly understood by our partners in the United Nations and supported by them as well. The rapid pace of recent events determined the changes in Asia’s geopolitical and geo-economic situation. The nature and direction of inter-State and regional processes, an important component of some of these changes, has resulted in the formation of new, independent States, each having chosen its own independent path of development and having its own interests. One of the ways in which the uniqueness of each country has been manifested is in its political path, as is natural. For each country that path is based on the people’s historical roots, mentality and psychological make-up. Turkmenistan is no exception to this. Merging the prospects for its own development with the direction and nature of regional and continental processes and linking national interests with the objective requirements of the day — from this theoretical and practical basis we have arrived at the need to proclaim neutrality as a principle and instrument of Turkmenistan’s foreign policy. We are pleased that our neutrality initiative is finding more and more support, attracting civil and political interest and receiving broad international recognition. We are grateful to the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for providing Turkmenistan with assistance in this regard. In the context of asserting itself as a neutral State, Turkmenistan requested admission to the Non-Aligned Movement as a full-fledged member. We hope that during the non-aligned summit in Cartagena, Colombia, Turkmenistan’s membership will be confirmed. In this context, I would like to state Turkmenistan’s conviction that the idea of non-alignment is both a vital and a viable one. We do not share the view that it is archaic. We believe that we must not participate in the two conflicting global systems and that we need to turn to an idea of non-participation in the various rigid regional blocs, multi-State formations capable of generating considerable destructive force. Turkmenistan advocates non-alignment, as well as non-participation in improper acts of intervention in the internal affairs of States, non- participation in efforts for global or regional dominance and non-participation in schemes to limit the role of the United Nations or weaken the universal and proven machinery for implementing global policy. Such practices serve selfish purposes. We are convinced that the use of military force to solve existing conflicts has no future, but that negotiations are effective. Although seeking peaceful means is complex, alternatives do not exist. At the same time, we understand that without active efforts, without good will, it will hardly be possible to attain the desired result. Therefore, inter alia, while not intervening in the Tajik conflict, we are prepared to play a role in holding the next round of inter-Tajik negotiations. We welcome and commend the peacemaking efforts of the United Nations and Russia, Iran, Pakistan and other countries in this process. Naturally, we must be concerned at the situation unfolding in neighbouring Afghanistan. Supporting contacts with the central Government in Kabul, as well as with regional leaders, we believe that the Afghans must 35 be helped to demonstrate their ability to achieve peace and consensus in their country, and that attempts to intervene in Afghanistan’s internal affairs not only are counter- productive, but may lead to highly undesirable consequences. In that context, I would like to emphasize that Turkmenistan gives priority to the United Nations, to the Secretary-General’s efforts to find an acceptable machinery for an Afghan settlement. Turkmenistan agrees with the concern expressed from this rostrum at the continuing internal Afghan conflict. Turkmenistan has a long border with this long-suffering State and is truly interested in finding a prompt settlement to the Afghan problem. We are also interested in the success of the special representative of the United Nations, who in our view requires serious support from the United Nations. We cannot allow a situation whereby efforts to focus on solving one conflict cause less attention to be paid to another, resulting in negative consequences. Just as mankind has become aware that the nuclear threat has a global dimension, we are also aware that today we need an adequate response to all regional and local disputes and conflicts. I would like to emphasize that Ashkhabad is prepared to engage in constructive cooperation with the United Nations on these issues, and to demonstrate its commitment to the principles of constructive neutrality. All countries and peoples are now adapting in their own ways to new conditions in the world, which dictate the need to adopt a common philosophy of security, based on the principle of security for one and security for all. I would like to emphasize that at this stage we are talking about a philosophy, of perceptions of the world, reflecting realities in Asian countries, in particular. This philosophy excludes the use of force, diktat, as a means of solving political disputes, and its main principles should include equality, humanism, social and economic progress, and healthy pragmatism. Here I should like to support what was said by my colleague from Germany, Mr. Klaus Kinkel, who emphasized that we must not allow hostile stereotypes to become instilled in people’s minds and that we cannot associate in one sweep Islam with terrorism and fundamentalism. We welcome this assertion and express our conviction that this attitude will become universal. As for Turkmenistan, we are fundamental advocates of a secular State model, in which religion would play its proper role. We believe that, as has been emphasized by President Niyasov, a poly-ethnic, multi-faith State model and structure is more effective, more fruitful, than a mono-ethnic and mono-religious State. I take this opportunity to emphasize the support that Turkmenistan has received, through its participation in the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), in European matters, as one of the legal successors of the former federated State. This has created for us, in a difficult transitional time of colossal transformations, the possibility of benefiting from Asian- European development. In that context, the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of France, Mr. Hervé de Charette, were very important for us, when he spoke about the States of Asia and Africa and about focusing on the first meeting of Heads of State of Asia and Africa, set for March 1996. We hope, within the context of activating work on the Euro-Asian bridge, that there will be other major projects, with the participation of Turkmenistan, on a direct window to Europe. Primarily, we are talking about a north-south transit corridor to link Europe and Asia, through the territory of Russia and Turkmenistan, facilitating the supply of Turkmen energy to European markets and so on. I should like to emphasize that we have witnessed a significant, if not radical, increase in international interest in Caspian Sea matters, and the utilization of its abundant natural resources. Our conceptual approach to this is based on the idea that the Caspian Sea is a unique water basin and the common property of the five coastal States. In the making of plans for the development of its resources account should be taken of those States’ interests; their consent should be required and no unilateral decisions should be taken. Turkmenistan firmly advocates the prevention of any naval activities in the Caspian Sea, and favours freedom of navigation, on the basis of a legal status to be developed by the littoral States. We must create legal and economic conditions that will guarantee a normal regime for foreign investment and exclude any risks for investors, such as the emergence of a situation of distrust between the States of the basin. At the coming anniversary session of the General Assembly next month, President Niyasov will set forth the principles of the domestic and foreign policies of Turkmenistan, focusing on problems being taken up by the United Nations, an Organization reflecting the face of mankind, which today faces a new millennium with its unique challenges and times and circumstances. We sincerely congratulate each other, and first and foremost congratulate the Secretary-General, as we are absolutely convinced that the United Nations, in this year of its 36 fiftieth anniversary, will prove that it is essential to the world as the highest international assembly, developing an agenda for global partnership in the twenty-first century. On behalf of my country and my Government, Sir, may I first of all extend warmest congratulations to you on your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly, which coincides with the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. Your assumption of the presidency of this session is a crowning event in a long and brilliant political and diplomatic career, and will undoubtedly ensure the success of our deliberations. It is all the more gratifying for us to emphasize this fact, since we share with your country, Portugal, a historic past of deeply rooted links of culture and cooperation, which today unite our peoples and our countries. We also extend our congratulations to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, a country with which we have excellent relations of friendship and cooperation, on the brilliant way in which he guided the proceedings of the forty-ninth session. We also want to take this opportunity to express to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our appreciation for the dynamic way in which he is leading our Organization. As we commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization, and one year after the holding of the first multiparty elections in Guinea-Bissau, I feel particularly honoured to have the privilege of representing my country at this historic session of the General Assembly. This event offers the international community a special occasion and an appropriate framework for reaffirming our full adherence to the principles of the United Nations Charter. A half century after its creation, the United Nations must, more than ever before, be able to confront new challenges. Guinea-Bissau is of the opinion that in order to best respond to the needs of the day, our Organization must undertake urgent and appropriate reforms. I am convinced that the political and socio-economic changes taking place on the international scene have repercussions for the functioning of our Organization. It is our profound conviction that the end of the bipolarization of international relations and the cold war promises better conditions for the future of our Organization. The broad prospects opening up for the process of the peaceful settlement of conflicts in many parts of the world are not just a matter of circumstance, but are rather the expression of the international community’s unequivocal will to establish lasting peace. 24 It is in this context that we note with satisfaction that after so many efforts made by the international community, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in particular, significant progress has been made in Liberia. As far as Angola is concerned, we welcome the way in which the negotiation process and the implementation of the agreements signed in Lusaka have developed. We congratulate the people and leaders of the fraternal country of Mozambique for the exemplary way in which the first multiparty elections took place there. The situation in Somalia continues to be of serious concern to Guinea-Bissau. We urge the parties concerned to put an end to hostilities, and to continue negotiations with a view to achieving national reconciliation. In the Middle East, the peace process deserves the support of the international community. We thus welcome with satisfaction the progress achieved. As regards Jammu and Kashmir, my country urges the parties to the conflict to find a just and lasting solution. My country continues to support the initiatives regarding negotiations in East Timor, under the auspices of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, with a view to a just solution. In connection with the question of the embargo affecting Cuba, which has an impact on the population of that country, Guinea-Bissau encourages dialogue between the parties concerned with a view to a definitive and satisfactory solution. In the former Yugoslavia, where the international community has been witness to acts of inhumanity, we can at last welcome with optimism the progress achieved in the course of negotiations. As the international community celebrates the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of our universal Organization, may I, on behalf of my Government, reiterate our firm conviction that the Republic of China on Taiwan should form part of the United Nations on the basis of the application of the principle of the parallel representation of divided countries. In this context, it would be desirable for the two countries to participate simultaneously in international activities, with a view to promoting constructive contacts and negotiations. Respect for and the exercise of human rights and pluralist democracy are factors in producing national unity and peace, and in preserving international stability. Guinea-Bissau continues to endeavour to defend and safeguard this concept, whose constant application is vital to development. Guinea-Bissau continues to work to improve the management of its economy. The proper implementation of a structural adjustment programme reflects the constant concerns of my Government. I am convinced that in spite of our own efforts of macroeconomic management to improve the well-being of our populations, my country needs the support of the international community, with a view to confronting the many development challenges we face. The poverty and social injustice suffered by most of mankind constitute root causes of the conflict, threatening the peace and stability of the world; the ideological tensions of the cold war could, indeed, be replaced by other crises, especially crises of an economic and financial origin, if urgent measures are not immediately taken. The threat to the environment is a reality which must be urgently combated. The protection of the ecosystem requires continued support for the development process of the poorest countries. It is for this reason that we believe that underdevelopment poses a serious threat to the environment of the African continent. The countries members of the Permanent Inter-State Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel (CILSS) are facing grave problems of draught and other natural disasters that could seriously compromise their social and economic development. More than ever before, international cooperation is becoming imperative for world peace and for the protection and strengthening of human dignity in order to ensure full enjoyment of the rights and aspirations of present and future generations. The social development activities of the United Nations should focus in particular on the most vulnerable groups, such as women, children, young people, the aged and the disabled. Guinea-Bissau, which is loyal to the principles of the Charter, reaffirms its determination to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security and solemnly reiterates its firm resolve to persevere in that direction. In this context, we welcome with pleasure the results of the World Summit for Social Development and of the Fourth World Conference on Women. Guinea-Bissau’s contribution to the attainment of the purposes and principles of our Organization is well 25 known. Our participation in different peace-keeping operations around the world is the clearest illustration of this. We are convinced that the maintenance of international peace and security is the collective responsibility of all Member States, large and small, in accordance with the principle of the sovereign equality of States. In this context, my country, Guinea-Bissau, submitted its candidature for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council, which has been endorsed by the African Group. In this regard, I request the support of all Member States. Allow me first of all to express very warm greetings and congratulations to the President from the Government and people of Fiji on his election to preside over the General Assembly at this historic fiftieth session. We are confident that with his vast experience and demonstrated leadership, the General Assembly will complete its deliberations at this important session fruitfully. I would also like to express the compliments of my delegation to His Excellency Foreign Minister Amara Essy, whose presidency during the forty-ninth session brought the work of the General Assembly to a successful conclusion. I wish to join other speakers in warmly welcoming the Republic of Palau as the one hundred and eighty-fifth Member of the United Nations. On 13 October 1970, a quarter of a century ago, Fiji, a newly independent State only three days old, was admitted as this body’s one hundred twenty-sixth member. Standing at this very rostrum, the Permanent Representative Designate of Fiji to the United Nations, Ambassador Semesa Sikivou, said, “Although I represent a small country far away in the Pacific, my Government and people warmly cherish the principles and ideals which led to the foundation of the United Nations and which have made this great Assembly, in its 25 years of existence, one of the main hopes for the future of mankind. And we are fully resolved to play our part, however humble, in helping to maintain and foster the high purpose for which this Assembly was established — the brotherhood of mankind.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty- fifth Session, Plenary Meetings, 1863rd meeting, para. 111) Today I wish to confirm that since that memorable occasion, nothing has changed to diminish that resolve in any way. It has never been shaken. The intervening years have demonstrated that the high purpose to which Ambassador Sikivou referred constitutes the very cement that binds us together in the pursuit of a common global destiny. The principles and ideals which inspired the architects of the United Nations still endure as noble goals that challenge us. Today is a special day for Fiji because it marks the twenty-fifth year of our nationhood. While anniversaries 18 are appropriate moments for celebration, they are also a fitting time for reflection, stocktaking and giving thanks. In our particular case, Fiji owes a debt of gratitude to its friends in the international community who reached out to assist us over these years. Since that moment, over two decades ago, when our frail canoe embarked on its long voyage, with all its reefs and shoals, it has been comforting to have so many friends ready to show us the beacons and lighthouses, enabling us to choose a course that would make our independence meaningful for ourselves. On behalf of the Government and the people of Fiji, it is my solemn duty today to say thank you to our friends. As the canoe continues its journey, we are confident that we will be able to continue counting on the guidance and help of our friends. And this includes the United Nations — we highly value our association with it and the assistance it provides. Half a century ago, the United Nations was established to end the scourge of war and build a better world for succeeding generations. The cold war and its attendant super-Power rivalry have ended. However, despite decreases in inter-State conflicts, recent history indicates that the much-promised peace dividend from the end of the sterile confrontations that characterized much of the life of the United Nations has not materialized. Conflicts within States continue to tear at the fabric of established societies. Can we truly say, looking around our world, that it is better today than it was 50 years ago? During the last year, in particular, there has been much soul-searching about the role of the United Nations. This has stemmed in part from a growing perception that in the face of civil strife, the Blue Helmets have been powerless to save lives and prevent conflict. I believe that the seeming hesitancy of United Nations peace-keepers reflects our inability as Member States of the Organization to develop a clear and confident sense of the new role of the United Nations in today’s changed global environment. We all have a collective responsibility to ensure that a more precise vision of the role of the modern United Nations is created. With political will, we can do it. In this process, I suggest that the moment is right for us to rededicate ourselves to the Charter, for it is the principles enshrined in it that represent our best opportunity for finding a clear direction ahead as we approach the new millennium. No less important is that we, as Member States, should equip our Organization with the resources to carry out its reinvigorated mandate. The United Nations must further enlarge its instruments of preventive diplomacy. The Secretary- General’s Agenda for Peace has clearly made an outstanding contribution to discussions in this area. Fiji urges the Assembly to give earnest consideration to implementing his recommendations on this issue. Fiji considers that there is much merit to proposals that a special department or unit be set up to deal with conflict prevention and resolution. This unit could coordinate the actions of a rapid-deployment force to be dispatched to trouble spots when conflicts erupt. More importantly, it would collate, analyse and interpret information and intelligence and develop early detection capacities on potential conflict situations. It would also work with States in developing confidence-building measures designed to minimize both intra- and inter-State conflicts. The financial position of the United Nations continues to be a matter of concern to Fiji. In this we are not alone, I am sure. The sudden and huge increase in expenditures for peace-keeping operations to a level more than three times as high as that of expenditures for development is becoming difficult to sustain and justify. It has been our view for some time that the apparent imbalance between resources committed to security issues and those committed to development is not justified. As regards peace-keeping, we all know that there are large-scale arrears in contributions. We do not object to peace-keeping operations. On the contrary, despite our smallness and our relative lack of resources, we have been a consistent and active contributor of troops to various peace-keeping missions. Fiji has paid a heavy human and financial price for contributing troops, but it has done so gladly and willingly and will continue to do so. Clearly, though, the United Nations has to rationalize its peace-keeping expenditures and at the same time reimburse fully and in timely fashion monies that it owes to troop-contributing countries. It is now becoming clear that a large number of Member States, if not the majority, wish the United Nations to devote more attention and resources to human and social development. Ultimately, there can be no sustainable peace without development. Enduring solutions to social and economic problems represent the basic infrastructure for long-term peace. The United Nations cannot — indeed, must not — shrink from this aspect of its mission. A greater rationalization of agencies and programmes within the United Nations and its agencies must be tackled with urgency and vigour. Fiji supports efforts to establish a high-level working group on United 19 Nations reform, and we look forward to contributing to efforts within the Organization aimed at revitalizing and strengthening the United Nations system. Of critical importance to this review process is the need for the United Nations to redirect its focus away from activities of limited value and relevance and to strengthen those which the Member States identify as meaningful. This will require the taking of some hard decisions which can no longer be postponed. The end of bipolarism and the increased membership of the United Nations have created new challenges for the Organization. One of these is the reform of the Security Council. Fiji has followed with keen interest the deliberations of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council. We believe that the structures of the United Nations should reflect changes in the global political landscape. They should reflect the principles of geographical representation and equity consistent with today’s global political and economic realities. The arguments for an enlarged Security Council reflecting these principles are compelling. Fiji also believes that while questions as to the form of the Council are important, equal attention to the substance of the Security Council is crucial. In particular, we would urge that closer attention be paid to the “veto” power in the light of the new global realities to which I have referred. Fiji would like to register its strong view that the question of the protection and security of small States remains a central concern of the United Nations. Last year, we joined in sponsoring a resolution on this issue in the Fourth Committee, for as long as drug traffickers, international arms dealers, money launderers and international white-collar criminals continue to ply their trade, and as long as mercenaries and terrorists and other adventurers exist, the protection and security of small States will remain vulnerable to acts of aggression from without as well as from within. Small States especially look to the provisions of the Charter as regards respect for their sovereignty and its preservation. Earlier this year, Fiji joined other States Members of the United Nations in agreeing to an unconditional and indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). The Review and Extension Conference was difficult and involved a willingness to compromise on the part of many parties. During the Conference, Fiji stated that the future viability of the NPT would depend on the conduct of States in relation to their rights and obligations. Fiji went along with the decision to extend the Treaty despite its imperfections because we believed that it made an important contribution to global peace and security. We were therefore bitterly disappointed when France announced its decision in June this year to resume nuclear testing in the South Pacific. Coming in the wake of the NPT Conference, the French decision displayed great insensitivity. Fiji has long been a consistent opponent of nuclear testing in all forms and in all environments. If anything, we believe that rather than contribute to, they detract from, national and indeed global security. As an oceanic State heavily dependent on the sea for food and survival, we maintain that nuclear testing in our region has a more immediate impact. It threatens one of our main sources of livelihood and our health, not only at the present time, but for generations to come. The French decision to resume nuclear testing at Mururoa has, as is well known, met with worldwide condemnation. South Pacific countries, as those most immediately affected, have added their strong individual and collective voices to the protests. In the light of the cessation of the cold war, one might ask, What is the need for further testing of nuclear weapons? Fiji therefore urges France, even at this stage, after it has already detonated two of its planned eight nuclear devices, to reconsider its decision. It is not too late to turn the clock back. In recent years, thanks to the moratorium on testing put in place by President Mitterrand, France has enjoyed cordial relations in the Pacific region, but all that good will and the warmth of those relationships are now being rapidly compromised by their recent decision. At their meeting in Madang last month the leaders of the Pacific Forum expressed their extreme outrage at the resumption by the French of their nuclear testing in the Pacific. They decided that, should France continue its testing in the Pacific, the Forum would review the status of France as a Forum dialogue partner. It is therefore singularly disappointing that despite all these objections, France went ahead and detonated a second nuclear device at Fagataufa, on 2 October 1995. We regard this as a slap in the face of the leaders of the Forum and a violent crime against the people of the South Pacific. As the Assembly is aware, the Forum has now duly suspended France as a post-Forum dialogue partner. This will remain so until France changes its decision on nuclear testing in the Pacific. Fiji fully associates itself with the Forum decision. 20 Fiji would also like to express its deep regret at the continued nuclear testing by the People’s Republic of China. We see no justification for such tests. My Government calls upon all States having similar intentions to desist from taking any action that would threaten negotiations at the current session of the Conference on Disarmament taking place in Geneva. While present indications are that negotiations to conclude a universal, multilateral and effectively verifiable nuclear-test-ban treaty are on track, we cannot yet assume that the time for congratulations and back-patting has been reached. That will only come with the final conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty (CTBT) which takes into account the security of all States, including non-nuclear States. Fiji continues to place high priority on completion of the CTBT negotiations in 1996. We welcome President Clinton’s commitment to a zero threshold test-ban treaty. Fiji urges other nuclear-weapon States that have not yet done so to give similar assurances. These States have a special responsibility in ensuring that the CTBT negotiations remain on track. We believe that a comprehensive treaty covering all relevant concerns will make a significant contribution to efforts towards nuclear disarmament and the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear weapons in all its aspects. Within our own region, the South Pacific, we have a number of conventions and treaties designed to keep the region free from nuclear and other hazardous material. These include the Convention for the Protection and Development of the Natural Resources and Environment of the South Pacific Region, of 1989, and its related Protocols — the Noumea Convention, the Waigani Convention — which was opened for signature only last month and which aims to ban the importation into Forum island countries of hazardous and radioactive wastes and to control the transboundary movement and management of hazardous wastes within the South Pacific region — and the South Pacific nuclear-free-zone Treaty, the Treaty of Rarotonga, of 1985, and its three Protocols. With regard to the latter, we are pleased that two of the five nuclear Powers — China and the Russian Federation — have signed the relevant Protocols. But the remaining three have not done so as yet. We therefore urge the United States of America, France and the United Kingdom to sign the Protocols as soon as possible as a demonstration of their commitment to a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty. From a global perspective, it had been predicted that the conclusion of the Uruguay Round would link economies more strongly through increased flows of trade and finance based on trade liberalization and a concomitant strengthening of multilateral trading systems. While trade liberalization caused by the Uruguay Round has had positive effects on the trade and incomes of some countries, the beneficial results of that process have been far from uniform. Nor have they been universal. Most, if not all, of the Pacific island countries are among those that have been adversely affected by the changed global trading regime, in part as a result of the removal of certain preferential trade arrangements of which they formed a part. Small island developing economies have borne the brunt of these changes, which have forced sometimes painful adjustments. We would therefore urge our developed-country partners to assist efforts we are making at the national and regional levels to enhance our international economic competitiveness and to expand our trading opportunities. Last year, Fiji, along with other small island developing countries, welcomed General Assembly resolution 49/100, which recalled the special economic vulnerability of the small island developing States. Fiji acknowledges the role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development of the Secretariat in research and policy analysis in the strengthening of the capacities of small island developing States to capture a larger share of world trade. We welcome the recent appointments of senior staff in both those entities to provide greater focus on problems related to small island developing States. However, Fiji believes that more tangible and concrete evidence of specific support measures to small island developing States must be put in place without further delay. We would urgently commend this as a matter to be studied in some detail by the Commission on Sustainable Development at its high- level segment to be convened next year. Talk of peace and development enjoins all within our global village, especially leaders, to recall and to rededicate themselves to the commitments they agreed to at the World Summit for Social Development held earlier this year in Denmark. If we as leaders in Government commit ourselves to creating an economic, political and social environment that will enable people to achieve social development, we will have gone a long way towards creating an environment conducive to peace. Fiji would therefore renew its plea to the developed industrialized countries to enhance their assistance to developing countries within the framework of the 21 Copenhagen Declaration to bring about improved standards of living in the third world. In the long term, more stable and more affluent national societies comprising well- nourished individuals will be less of a threat to global peace and stability than States whose citizens languish in abject poverty and the horrors of sectarian violence. At the same time, we also recognize that since resources, particularly development assistance, are getting harder to come by, it is incumbent upon all of us to see that whatever resources are made available are put to the best possible use. Indeed, proper management of resources is increasingly becoming one of the major preoccupations of both the aid donors and the aid recipients in our region of the South Pacific. The South Pacific Forum had “Managing resources” as its theme in 1994. The Forum’s deliberations this year, which took place only last month in Papua New Guinea, centred on the theme of “Securing development beyond 2000”. As in previous years, the Forum island members again had very useful discussions with aid donors in the region in their post-Forum dialogue. We are deeply appreciative of the opportunity to sit down together with the donors and discuss regional issues of mutual concern. The donors included the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Japan, Canada, the European Union, the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan and the Republic of Korea. We believe that regional cooperation will play an increasingly important role in the development of our national economies. We therefore highly value our increasing contacts with the countries members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the economies of South-East Asia generally. This includes Taiwan, with which we enjoy very useful and close trade, economic and technical cooperation, just as we do with the People’s Republic of China, with which we have strong and unequivocally clear official relations. We believe that Taiwan, like the People’s Republic of China, has huge potential to contribute in a practical way to the development of our region and to the world generally. We therefore welcome the spirit of dialogue and cooperation between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China and hope that the international community at large will also be able to benefit from such cooperation. Their increased participation and cooperation in the activities of various international and regional forums would certainly be welcome. Fiji, as a member of the South Pacific Forum, is pleased that the Republic of Korea has now joined the Forum as a post-Forum dialogue partner. We are confident that the Republic of Korea, a rapidly growing economic Power, can play a very significant role in the development of the South Pacific region. We welcome the opportunities that lie ahead. Further, we hope that initiatives for talks between the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continue. We hope that in due course there will be direct dialogue between the two Koreas, leading to their reconciliation and eventual reunification. Last month, the Fourth World Conference on Women, in which Fiji also participated, was held at Beijing. We thank the Government and the people of China for acting as host to the Conference. Our delegation had high praise for the efficient organization of the Conference. We welcome the very useful deliberations that took place at Beijing. Fiji looks forward to early implementation of the Platform of Action so that the ideas contained in it may be translated into meaningful activity for the betterment of women. Preoccupation with economic progress should not be at the expense of continued protection of the environment and sustainable development. Indeed, good environmental housekeeping will encourage economic growth rather than hinder it. While the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development at Rio de Janeiro was seen as a defining moment in the quest for sustainability and environmental protection, Fiji regrets that a lack of political commitment, coupled with donor fatigue, has been responsible for the failure of most developed countries to allocate adequate financial resources to enable developing countries to tackle the plethora of problems associated with environmental degradation. If no increased official development assistance is forthcoming and if the international target of 0.7 per cent is not met, there will be serious reneging on commitments made at Rio. Fiji is especially concerned as a small island developing State that the more affluent industrialized countries should recognize their responsibility towards the international community and take urgent steps to assist small island developing States in implementing the Barbados Programme of Action. Specifically, the need is for international cooperation, technology transfer and financial resources. There is also a critical need for access to markets, acquisition of new technologies, investments and institutional and human resource development by small island developing States to enable them to respond more effectively to the challenge of finding new paths to 22 sustainable development. My Government would urge all parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to move speedily towards the conclusion of an effective protocol that would ultimately bring about improvements in the global climate system. For front-line States such as Fiji, vulnerable as we are to rising sea levels, hurricanes and other phenomena associated with a worst- case scenario of climate change, politics has little to do with the reality that our physical survival would be affected if immediate action to remedy ailments in the world climate system were not taken. In this context, Fiji welcomes the commencement of negotiations on the Berlin mandate to strengthen the Framework Convention on Climate Change, which got under way in Geneva last August. At the first Conference of the Parties to the Convention, Fiji had expressed its regret that the outcome of the Conference was minimal. Fiji continues to believe that the protocol of the Alliance of Small Island States should form the basis of any new instrument aimed at strengthening the climate Convention. Further, at the present time, no new commitments should attach to developing countries, given that their overriding priority will remain the combatting of poverty. Recognizing that the present health of the world’s climate system is a result of the detrimental patterns of production and consumption of the industrialized countries, those countries should continue to take the lead in reducing the emission of greenhouse gases. Fiji welcomes the successful completion of the United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. The Agreement produced by the Conference was the culmination of more than two years of work by Member countries that participated in it. It will form yet another important building block in the progressive development of international law under the auspices of the United Nations. Fiji hopes that the Agreement will lead to the sustainable utilization of the living resources of the sea. For its part, Fiji was both honoured and privileged to have played a small part in facilitating the work of the Conference. We have kept true to the promise of Ambassador Sikivou that Fiji would play its part, however humble, in the affairs of this great Assembly. At this time I would like to pay a special tribute to Ambassador Satya Nandan, under whose guidance as Chairman the Conference completed the difficult task of weaving together the sometimes competing interests that underlie the often complex and technical negotiations that allowed for an agreement. Ambassador Nandan has done us proud, and Fiji is indebted to him for his enduring contribution. Fiji has followed with keen interest the deliberations of the Working Group on Indigenous Populations under the brilliant stewardship of Mrs. Erica-Irene Daes, under whose guidance a draft declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples has been completed. Fiji believes that the draft declaration is comprehensive and contains the fundamentals that should be part of any instrument that seeks to address the legitimate concerns and aspirations of all indigenous peoples. We would urge all States Members of the United Nations to support efforts to conclude work leading to early adoption of the draft declaration. However, while the draft declaration is important, Fiji considers that it is now time to give the fullest recognition at the international level to the rights of indigenous peoples by commencing negotiations to conclude as soon as possible a legal covenant on the subject. My Government believes that such an instrument would be a logical progression following the adoption of the draft declaration and would signal that the political will to respect the rights of indigenous peoples exists. During the greater part of the life of the United Nations, the strong have dictated to the feeble, the big to the small, the mighty to the weak. While there has been some semblance of order, it has often been at the expense of justice and equity. In this context, while the United Nations has been a symbol of hope for people from small countries such as mine, much more remains to be done before it can fulfil the promise of promoting human dignity, improved standards of living and social progress for all. That said, however, Fiji’s view is that the United Nations remains the best and most imaginative organization mankind has yet devised for its survival in peace, justice and progress. On this day, 10 October, which is the silver anniversary of the independence of Fiji, and on the golden anniversary of the United Nations, we want to share with the international community the extraordinary opportunity to rededicate ourselves to fulfilling the aspirations of the Charter. The United Nations must continue to advance the interests of all mankind by providing a meaningful forum for genuine dialogue between the rich and the poor for the establishment of conditions for development, and thus for peace. Permit me to conclude with a final walk down memory lane. When Fiji’s first Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara, now President, 23 addressed this Assembly on 21 October 1970, he ended his historic address with these words: “much of the effort of the United Nations has been concentrated on improving the material well-being of the peoples of the world, and I have just been reading the far-reaching and imaginative report of the Second Committee setting out a blueprint for the second decade of economic development. It may then sound ungrateful for a small country like Fiji, which has so often been at the receiving end of the bounty, to question this priority. But so many of these schemes, welcome as they are, are confined within the boundaries of one country. Spiritual and moral values, on the other hand, know no frontiers, and by upholding and encouraging these, we are following a course which is truly international, and which is calculated more than anything else to give reality to the concept of one world. We do not live by bread alone, and it is only from the firm base of sound moral and spiritual standards that we can go on to meaningful economic progress”. (Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-fifth Session, Plenary Meetings, 1876th meeting, para. 210) I would suggest that this advice, given with characteristic humility, as it was then by the architect of modern Fiji, is no less powerful today than it was 25 years ago. I recommend it for the further consideration of this gathering. Mr. President, congratulations on your assumption of the presidency of this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Leadership has never been more critical to this Organization, and we are most grateful for the able work of your predecessor, Foreign Minister Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, and of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. We stand at the threshold of a new era, a time of great peril and magnificent promise. The choices that we make in the coming weeks and months could rejuvenate the United Nations for a new century of cooperation and progress, or they could consign the world body to years of stagnation, decline, and irrelevance. Neither path is inevitable, and none of the United Nations shortcomings are irreparable. The choice is ours. The world, like the United Nations, is in a period of transition and flux. Virulent local conflicts in several regions are being met with global cooperation to contain the violence, assist the victims and mend the political and economic fabric of the shattered societies. During this past week alone, patient and firm diplomacy has yielded encouraging results in the Middle East and the former Yugoslavia, two areas known more for conflict than compromise. In some places, however, gross violations of human rights and genocide are being committed, even as great strides are taken globally by way of strengthening international law and human rights standards, most recently through the Fourth World Conference on Women. As the fields of communications, trade and technology have expanded to global proportions, interdependence has become a fact of life. In a world of change, no institution — least of all the United Nations — can afford to stand still. The world body, after all, is an experiment. Launched by leaders of vision, foresight, and courage at another historic turning point half a century ago, the United Nations has steadfastly stood for change through peaceful means, for cooperation over conflict, and for hope over despair. Today, we have been called upon to reinvent the world Organization to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century, while we recommit ourselves to its founding, and enduring, principles. There is little doubt that this is a time of testing for the United Nations, but really it is the Member States — all 185 of us — that are being challenged as never before. It is our collective will, commitment, and inspiration — or lack thereof — that will determine the fate of history’s greatest experiment in international organization. Our responsibilities begin with paying our financial obligations in full and on time, but they run much deeper and wider. The Republic of Korea recognizes that the time has come for far-reaching reform in the way the United Nations conducts its business and structures its programmes. Korea gladly joins the many other nations to make this historic General Assembly session a time of reflection, recommitment, and renewal. No dimension of the United Nations work has been more severely or dramatically tested than its far-flung peace operations. All of us owe a debt of gratitude to the men and women from 70 countries whose courage and fortitude have kept the hope of peace alive under the most difficult and trying circumstances. We have asked them to accomplish a great deal with very little. If the United Nations is to respond effectively to the new forms of conflict that threaten peace and human security in today’s uncertain world, it is imperative that its peace operations be strengthened and renovated. We appreciate the ongoing efforts to enhance the preventive diplomacy and rapid reaction capabilities of the United Nations, both within and outside the framework of the Organization. One of the most promising avenues for bolstering United Nations capabilities is the United Nations stand-by arrangement system, and I would encourage the broadest possible participation by Member States. Today, my Government reaffirms its decision to take part in the United Nations stand-by system and its willingness to provide some 800 men for this effort, including an infantry battalion, engineering units, medical units and military observers. Since Korea’s first participation in United Nations peace-keeping operations in Somalia in 1993, when it sent an engineering battalion to the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II), it has dispatched a medical unit to the Western Sahara and military observers to both the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) in Kashmir and the United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG). I am also pleased to inform the Assembly that next week a Korean bridging unit of engineers will arrive in Angola to take part in the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEMIII). My Government is determined to expand its contributions to the peace-keeping operations of the United Nations at a level commensurate with our national capacity. 5 As one of the troop-contributing countries to United Nations peace-keeping operations, we feel a great deal of concern over the fact that the number of casualties among United Nations peace-keepers is sharply increasing and that their safety is frequently endangered. We firmly believe that hostile acts against United Nations personnel, such as armed attack and hostage-taking, are absolutely unacceptable and should not go unpunished. While we appreciate efforts for the protection of United Nations personnel, such as the conclusion of the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel, we feel that it is the collective responsibility of all Member States of the United Nations to ensure the safety and security of United Nations peace-keepers. The challenges before the United Nations, of course, are hardly confined to traditional security concerns. Unrest in many parts of the world serves to remind us of the economic, social and political roots of conflict. Uneven patterns of economic and social development are of particular concern. On the positive side, despite a slight decline in growth since last year, the recent economic recovery of the developed countries and sustained growth in a large number of developing countries have helped boost the global economy in 1995. Economies in transition have shown encouraging signs of improvement. The overall economic situation in Africa has also made headway, albeit slow and modest. However, developing countries, particularly those in Africa, require the assistance of the international community in their developmental efforts. Fostering a favourable external economic environment for them is essential. In this regard, my delegation believes that the debate in the Economic and Social Council on the theme of development in Africa this year was both timely and appropriate. In strengthening its cooperation with developing countries, particularly with the least developed countries, my Government places primary emphasis on human resources development. We are implementing a plan, which was announced by President Kim Young Sam at the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen, to provide technical training for over 30,000 people from developing countries, particularly from the African continent, by the year 2010. We welcome the fact that the issue of development is receiving renewed attention as a pre-eminent global concern. My Government is actively participating in the Working Group of the General Assembly on “An Agenda for Development”. Although the primary responsibility for development falls on the individual Government, we believe that national development efforts also require the assistance of the international community. In that spirit, we vigorously support the multilateral efforts to realize sustainable global development. As a follow-up to President Kim’s announcement at the Copenhagen Summit of our intention to increase our official development assistance, we plan to enlarge our voluntary contribution to the operational activities of the United Nations by 65 per cent next year, and will continue such efforts in the coming years. In our view, the Copenhagen Social Summit was a milestone, not only because it laid a sound foundation for international assistance and cooperation in the area of sustainable social development, but also because it charted a clear direction for future action. Women’s issues have also become a key part of the global agenda. My Government welcomes the recent discussions in Beijing on the enhancement of the status of women and looks forward to the full and early implementation of the plan of action adopted at the Conference. The protection and enhancement of human rights are an enduring task. The inalienable and basic rights of human beings must be faithfully protected and preserved. As articulated in the Vienna Declaration, the primary responsibility for protecting human rights should be borne by the respective Government. However, it should also be noted that the cooperation and attention of the international community, including the United Nations, are paramount to the efforts in this field. Since the inauguration of President Kim Young Sam in February 1993, the Government of the Republic of Korea has placed an especially high priority on the promotion of democracy and human rights. The Government has ardently supported the democratization process and has successfully taken various reform measures to promote human rights in the country. I should like to take this opportunity to express my 6 Government’s deep concern over the human rights situation in North Korea. As my Government strongly believes that the people in North Korea, as our kindred, should enjoy the fundamental human rights to which all of us are entitled, we urge Pyongyang to respond positively to the international calls for the protection of human rights, especially through opening its society. An outstanding and emotional dimension of this issue is the division of families on the Korean Peninsula. During the Korean War, in 1950 to 1953, 10 million people were separated from their families. Most were never to hear from each other again, because even the exchange of letters was prohibited between the two Koreas. Even after the war, hundreds of South Koreans were forcibly taken to North Korea against their will, leaving behind families grieving over separation and anguished by the uncertainty of whether the other members were still alive. I believe that it is high time for the community of nations, particularly the United Nations, to render its assistance and do its part for these divided families so that they may at least hear from each other until they are finally reunited. Turning to the issue of disarmament, I would like to take this occasion to declare, on behalf of my Government, a one-year moratorium, which may be extended, on the export of anti-personnel land-mines. We hope that our decision will strengthen the international efforts to limit the proliferation of land-mines and to end their indiscriminate use. Considering the continued importance of the Conference on Disarmament as a unique negotiating forum for disarmament, my delegation welcomes the decision on expansion of membership of the Conference, adopted by consensus at its plenary meeting a week ago. We hope that the countries of the Group of 23 that wish to participate in the Conference will be given full-fledged membership at the earliest possible date. The Republic of Korea, as one of the original signatories to the Chemical Weapons Convention in 1993, has taken steps to ratify the Convention with a view to supporting the international endeavours to prohibit and eliminate all types of weapons of mass destruction. As we all recognize, universal adherence to the Convention is an essential step towards securing an effective non- proliferation regime in this area. The Republic of Korea therefore strongly urges those countries, including the DPRK, which have not yet joined the Convention to do so as soon as possible. In our efforts to curb the proliferation of nuclear weapons, the indefinite extension of the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) by consensus last May was a watershed event. We urge the nuclear-weapon States to fulfil their responsibilities under the NPT to make the world nuclear- free. In this regard, my delegation joins the call of many other countries for the early conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty, a global agreement which would undoubtedly help facilitate the eventual elimination of nuclear weapons as envisaged in the NPT. In the same spirit, it is deeply regrettable that some countries with nuclear weapons are still engaged in nuclear testing. On behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Korea, I would like to urge those nations with future plans for testing to cancel them without delay. My delegation strongly endorses the efforts to strengthen the safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). We believe that the future of the NPT also depends upon cooperation between States in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. In this regard, we believe that the legitimate demands of the non- nuclear States to promote the peaceful uses of nuclear energy should be duly respected and that resolute measures should be taken against those States that fail to fulfil their obligations under the IAEA safeguards system. The North Korean nuclear issue remains a paramount security concern for North-East Asia and the world. The Republic of Korea urges North Korea once again not only to comply with its NPT obligations and IAEA safeguards in a full and complete manner, but also faithfully to implement the Geneva Agreed Framework between the United States and the DPRK of October 1994. Furthermore, North Korea should live up to its commitments and obligations under the Joint Declaration on Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. Maintaining peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula is not just an issue affecting 70 million Koreans, but also a strategic issue with critical implications for the North-East Asia region and the world at large. Accordingly, we believe that the current armistice agreement must be kept in force until a permanent peace mechanism is set in place. With a view to dealing with all inter-Korean issues, my Government earnestly hopes that the North Korean leadership will respond positively to our call for inter-Korean dialogue and cooperation. 7 As I noted at the outset, the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations provides a unique opportunity for the international community to revitalize, strengthen and reform the United Nations system. To this end, a number of proposals, studies and reports have been put forward. My Government is closely following the constructive discussions which have been conducted thus far in the working groups of the General Assembly seeking ways to augment the effectiveness, efficiency and democracy of the Organization. As for the Security Council, we are of the view that in reforming it account should be taken first and foremost of the need for equitable geographical representation in its membership and enhanced transparency and efficiency in its working methods. Given the utmost importance of the issue and its implication for other issues, we will remain flexible and open-minded to various ideas and suggestions and make due contributions to the process of consensus- building. We also believe that the coordinating role of the Economic and Social Council should be strengthened, particularly in the area of operational activities. On the financial aspect of the United Nations, it is alarming to note that the total amount of unpaid assessments is well over $3.5 billion. An effective solution to the current financial difficulties should be found in order to meet the increasing demands of the United Nations and to strengthen it. It is in this context that we again urge all Member States to pay their assessed contributions on time and in full. In order for reform to be successful, however, it is crucial to secure a broad consensus among Member States. We must not forget that consolidated political will, mutual confidence and a sense of common interest and benefit among Member States are key elements in the process of reform. In this spirit, reform begins at home, in rededicating ourselves to the community of interests and principles that serve to unite the disparate nations of the world. In three weeks, in this Hall, the leaders of more than 150 nations — three times as many as met in San Francisco a half-century ago — will reaffirm their commitment to the ideals and purposes enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. As the nations and peoples of the world reflect upon what the United Nations has achieved in its first half- century and what it should aspire to in the years ahead, the Republic of Korea wishes to renew its determination to render full and unswerving support for the revitalization of the world body in the years ahead. We believe in the collective ability of nations to build a safer, more prosperous and just world, and we are committed to do our part. Allow me first of all, and with particular gratitude, to extend to the President’s predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, our warmest compliments for the care and discipline he displayed during his presidency of the forty- ninth session of the General Assembly. Our compliments also go to the other officers who worked with him. Allow me also to extend the sincere congratulations of the delegation of the Principality of Monaco to the new Bureau that has just been elected and say how pleased we are to see this fiftieth session of the General Assembly under the esteemed authority of Mr. Freitas do Amaral. The country he represents, a country that is open to the world, tolerant, accessible, culturally rich and enriched by the cultures it has encountered throughout its history, deserved to be given this recognition. Our General Assembly decided to give it and we are deeply gratified. His personality and great political experience at the national and international levels, has recognized abilities and dynamism should all help to ensure the success of this important session. Its importance is first of all symbolic. Since man invented calendars, anniversaries have been occasions for celebration and rejoicing, and, as many speakers have said before me, for taking stock. Since its inception, our Organization has lived through highly complex political, economic, social and cultural events and phenomena which make any appraisal difficult. It position and role have grown constantly and gained in importance over the past fifty years. The expectations that people have for it and the hopes they place in it can be measured by the depth of the disappointment and bitterness that can be seen in cases of failure or difficulty. Has the United Nations not always tried to respond to the constant and often conflicting appeals made to it? Its responses are inspired by the fundamental values that prevailed when the Charter was drafted in 1945. Let us not forget that our States, by joining the United Nations, recognized the universality of these values. We must remain true to them and provide assistance whenever they are endangered. Recent events, still fresh in all our minds, have reminded us that these values have not always been respected and that faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, and in the equal rights of men and women and of nations, large and small, has not always been shared. And so, at this fiftieth anniversary of our Organization, these values must be recalled forcefully and with conviction at every opportunity so that these same values can be the inspiration for each of our resolutions, and every text we adopt. Above and beyond the States that we represent and their legitimate political interests, it is individuals — often vulnerable and adversely affected by poverty or war — who must be the recipients of international cooperation. It is our duty to live up to their expectations. When we look at the situation in this way, whether in terms of the Organization as a whole or in terms of certain of its organs, such as the Security Council, it becomes clear that there is a constant effort at adapting on the part of the international community, and a need — widely anticipated — to make our Organization more performance-oriented, more representative and closer to the concerns of its membership. We have followed with interest the work of the various Working Groups set up to that end. We have participated, and we have made suggestions, inter alia, with regard to equitable representation within the Security Council and an increase in its membership. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the membership of the United Nations, and today it includes all, or almost all, nations of the Earth. And so it would seem quite normal that its decision-making bodies, including the Security Council, should reflect this new reality. As the famous French writer and philosopher Paul Valéry wisely said, we have reached the stage when the end of the world is beginning. For this reason, we must now redouble our efforts and heighten our vigilance so that our Organization may be able to respond to this universality, in a relevant manner and in all its diversity and richness. Along with reforming its decision-making bodies, the United Nations must continue to improve its functioning and restructure its operations. Major efforts have been made. We would thank the Secretary-General for this, and we would also thank the members of the Secretariat. Improving the functioning of this Organization must take account of the need to strengthen its multilingual nature. Every staff member should know at least the two working languages of the Organization. Using just one language deprives the Organization of a rich resource. If we wish to really enhance the effectiveness of the Secretariat, we should first of all concentrate seriously on improving the language abilities of staff members so that they have a truly international culture and dimension. As can be seen from our history, the people of Monaco and the Government of our Principality, like all peace-loving peoples, follow very closely all initiatives to reduce armaments and transform the arms race — which has gone on too long — into a race towards disarmament. Let us hope that with the end of the cold war, this approach will be strengthened and that despite technical and financial problems, disarmament processes will not only continue but speed up. We must more than ever ensure that respect for international treaties and agreements and for international 14 law shall replace the balance of terror, and that the law thus serve justice. It is in this spirit that we wholeheartedly welcome the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Our Principality was in favour of this extension, and so once again we would thank the parties to the Treaty for this courageous decision, which was inspired by trust and hope. We welcome the initiative of the Powers that have already entered into a commitment — which had been expected for next fall — to ban, over the short term, all nuclear-weapon tests. This is a major advance. Our Government also welcomes particularly the decisions taken at the meeting, currently under way in Vienna, aimed at establishing a moratorium on the production of anti-personnel land-mines. We trust that this example will be followed widely. Since joining the United Nations, the Principality of Monaco has been co-sponsoring the resolution on assistance in mine clearance. By contributing financially to the voluntary fund created for that purpose, my country’s highest authorities wished to become involved, in a concrete way, in the implementation of that resolution. The international community, quite rightly, was shocked by the death and mutilation caused by these mines, which afflict mainly civilian populations, and children in particular. Our delegation would hope that significant progress could be made in strengthening security and cooperation in the region of the Mediterranean, in the spirit of resolution 49/81, which we co-sponsored and which was adopted on 15 December 1994. Our Principality hopes that we will always be involved in all the initiatives relating to the Mediterranean countries. We are also ready to support all initiatives in favour of international cooperation relating to the peaceful uses of outer space and those intended to develop, in collaboration with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, education and information programmes in support of disarmament. Making young people aware of this issue is a fundamental guarantee for peace in the years to come. While general and complete disarmament, no doubt still far off, may today seem utopian to some, nevertheless that goal must remain our ambition. For when weapons awaken, their might and their destructive power are limitless. This year, conflicts have been particularly devastating. Wars of another age have become the wars of our age, attacking, brutally and without distinction, men, women, children and defenceless old people. The Government of the Principality is thus resolutely in favour of strengthening preventive diplomacy on the part of the United Nations. We would thank the Secretary-General for the initiatives he has already taken to promote the settlement of many disputes and to avoid the eruption or continuation of conflicts. The “Supplement to An Agenda for Peace'” is an irreplaceable source of ideas, suggestions and wise solutions. It is no longer tolerable that the Blue Helmets be mistreated, humiliated, taken hostage and used as human shields with no means of defending themselves. Those men and women are no doubt ready to sacrifice their life, but not their dignity. This is a particularly appropriate time to stress — because recently the Organization has been criticized very sharply — how much it has contributed to the successful solution of disputes, which have sometimes been very difficult ones, and how much courage has been needed to take certain decisions and to carry out certain operations successfully. The hopes for peace coming out of the Middle East and Bosnia and Herzegovina represent a significant recognition of the courage that has been demonstrated, and they are an invitation to us to continue to persevere and to be optimistic. The report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization reminds us, in a very timely way, of this, mentioning the 24 operations currently under way in the areas of preventive diplomacy, the restoration and maintenance of peace, and the four major operations, which he describes as multifaceted. Coordination within the Secretariat between the three Departments involved in peace-keeping operations responds to current needs and concerns, a fact we note with great satisfaction. When diplomacy, at the end of its tether, cannot prevail and conflict erupts, then barbarism triumphs. No law of war, no humanitarian law, can control it. The most vulnerable human beings and those without weapons are not spared. The only way to help them is by humanitarian assistance. 15 In conditions that are always very difficult and sometimes dangerous, many humanitarian operations have been conducted in a most admirable way in the last few months. Men and women have lost their lives, and I pay tribute to their suffering and to their memory. I would pay tribute in particular to the “blue helmets”, the soldiers of peace, and to the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and to UNICEF, as well as to the many non- governmental organizations, some well-known, some less well-known, that have all worked tirelessly, constantly and with determination to protect, feed and provide medical and health care to populations that are adrift, assaulted by ruthless armed conflict. This year, the Principality of Monaco contributed a large percentage of its public efforts to financial contributions in the humanitarian and social fields. We will continue to do so, hoping that the action that is taken to this end can be completed as the conflicts themselves cease. We would like to lend our support, and this is in the spirit of the suggestions made by the Chairman of the delegation of Monaco, His Serene Highness, Crown Prince Albert, to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, to the thinking now under way on the strengthening of the coordination of emergency humanitarian assistance provided by the United Nations. The international Tribunals created on the initiative of the United Nations designed to prosecute those responsible for crimes against international humanitarian law in the territories of the former Yugoslavia and of Rwanda must be quickly established and enabled to function so as not to disappoint the hopes that have been placed in them. The idea of an international criminal court also deserves consideration and support. Humanitarian actions and respect for international humanitarian law are corollaries in a period of armed conflict to the struggle being waged by the United Nations to ensure general and universal respect for human rights. Since the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, significant progress seems to be under way. With human and material resources that are far from sufficient to meet actual needs, the Centre for Human Rights, thanks to the commitment and the extensive experience of its staff, is successfully continuing its work. The increase in the number and the quality of the consultants and the technical assistance provided plays a major role in ensuring that human rights are no longer just a concept, but become a reality. The presence in many countries of specialists working in varied areas, such as training, education, legislative reform and public information is one way of anchoring human rights and, thereby, the state of law in society on a day-to-day basis. The dispatch of observers to certain troubled regions of the world today is also an excellent initiative. We hope that it will continue, because it strengthens the moral presence of the United Nations. The creation of the post of High Commissioner is also in keeping with this approach, and we would encourage his actions. International cooperation in favour of the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is one of the basic vocations of this Organization, is being strengthened thereby. Rights that are applied to certain categories but which should remain universal — as the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing has just rightly recalled by describing women’s rights as being inseparable from human rights — must be recognized and strengthened in their application. The implementation of international Conventions relating to those rights is an essential element in this strengthening process. The committees set up pursuant to those instruments are the focus of this process and of the arrangements made to implement it. They must be given the means to act and to react. The Government of Monaco is particularly involved in the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20 November 1989, and that of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination of 21 December 1965, to which the Principality of Monaco has just become a party. The human condition in the twenty-first century will depend to a large extent not only on respect for civil and political rights, but also on the promotion of economic, social and cultural rights. It is in terms of human rights that we have to look at development, a point made in the 1993 Vienna Declaration. The recent World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen also adopted this approach. My 16 Government noted with interest the conclusions of the Fourth World Conference on Women, which has just ended in Beijing. All of this leads us to think, as does the Secretary- General, that development must first of all be recognized as a primary task of our age. The fundamental objective must be to improve the standards of living of people throughout the world, including the developed countries, where an increasingly large part of the population is excluded from the benefits of progress. The satisfaction of basic needs and the elimination of poverty, hunger, sickness and ignorance must be goals that we constantly seek to attain, using all available means. The Government of Monaco devotes a major part of its resources to social assistance, particularly for women and children, those who are most in need. The celebration in 1996 of the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty will be an excellent occasion for strengthening the implementation of these recommendations. Recent work on the “Agenda for Development” has attracted close attention. For the Principality of Monaco, development must above all be sustainable and based on balanced economic exchange and trade, harmonious regional integration and careful protection of the environment. The implementation of Agenda 21, the Conventions and resolutions adopted at Rio de Janeiro in support of the environment and development, is in our view a priority. The General Assembly has decided that 1998 shall be the Year of the Oceans. The people of Monaco, like all peoples that love the sea, are eagerly awaiting this event. Through our history, our traditions and our economy Monaco, like many other countries in the world, depends to a large extent on the sea and its resources, whether these be living, commercial, tourist or industrial. Protecting this valuable element of the environment against all kinds of thoughtless pollution and over- exploitation is a major concern. Enough must be done at the regional and international levels to protect it. In the Mediterranean, the Principality of Monaco is doing what it can, along with its closest neighbours France and Italy, within the framework of international agreements with practical and specific goals. The year 1998 must be an opportunity for us to become more aware and to launch new multidisciplinary and well-planned programmes so that the next century will not see an irreversible worsening of the state of the seas and oceans. In this connection, we are glad that the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is willing to act as the secretariat for the world programme of action to protect the marine environment against land- based pollution. The Government of Monaco will be interested in this programme and any other action to eliminate organic pollution from the marine environment. The Oceanographic Museum of Monaco is involved in the international initiative to protect coral reefs. We have organized an exhibition to make the public more aware of the need to protect coral, which is particularly sensitive to all forms of pollution and which, to develop, requires a healthy and protected environment. The UNEP programme on regional seas deserves encouragement. I cannot conclude my statement without mentioning the very serious financial crisis that the Organization is going through. The measures taken by the Secretary- General are mere palliatives. If all Member States were to live up to their commitments there would be no problem; there would be no need for working groups or committees of experts, which, after all, involve additional expenditure for the Organization. In conclusion, I should like to repeat something that was said by a famous politician: the United Nations, like nations, shapes its own future; nothing good comes to it by chance; those that serve it are those that develop their inner strength. On the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the representatives of the world’s nations are gathered here with hearts full of hope for a better future, as well as for the cause of the peace and prosperity of mankind, in an atmosphere of great enthusiasm and animation. The Afghan nation, in spite of the immense difficulties it has encountered, shares that optimism with many of the nations represented here, as well as confidence in its ability to overcome those challenges. War and conflict always bring with them miseries and devastation. The last 17 years have taught our children only to differentiate the various sounds of guns, rockets, tanks and mortars, rather than teaching them literacy or providing them with basic nutrition, security and peace of mind. We turn to this world family, as an institution dedicated to the cause of humanity, the self-determination of nations, human rights and democracy, to pronounce 6 itself opposed to the forces aiming to create a bloodbath in an already devastated Afghanistan. When I return to my homeland — the home of 1.7 million martyr graves, tens of millions of unexploded land- mines, 2 million disabled people, hundreds of thousands of orphans and widows — I am expected to be carrying answers as to why this world, which claims to be committed to human rights and justice, has remained a spectator of the sufferings of Afghans, brought about by foreign interference. Why, in spite of the complete peace, security and tranquillity prevailing in the capital for many months past, have the United Nations offices unjustifiably abandoned us by remaining outside? Our people find it astonishing that in an era of such developed mass communication, which leaves no distance between different corners of the globe, the apparently insurmountable difficulties — in particular, the actual causes of the continuing imposed war — are not understood. I am confident that there are people who clearly see the factors contributing to the continuation of the conflict. There are forces that insist on seeing our political system subordinated to their political and economic designs and policies. This is the actual source of the conflict. The crisis in Afghanistan is often perceived as a subject of academic studies. Some call this a civil war in a society that they consider “fragmented”. Others look at it as the scene of a contest, a struggle for power. Yet others try to find the roots of the conflict in the ethnic and tribal composition of the country. The truth is far more clear: whatever it is, it is not a civil war; nor is it a tribal or ethnic conflict; it is an imposed war. We have learned from history that our existence depends on our unity. We, like many other nations, want to live in peace and security, as well as benefit from economic development, welfare and democracy, which will be available only in peaceful circumstances. We want to live in peace with our neighbours and to engage in good- neighbourly relations. We leave it up to the astute observers of the United Nations and the impartial analysts of the world community to judge the efficacy of the United Nations in alleviating the sufferings in Afghanistan. The year 1995 opened with good omens for Afghanistan. The country witnessed positive changes towards peace and political stability. Following the removal of the sources of danger from the southern part of the capital, the people of Kabul found a moment of peace after years of being rocketed indiscriminately. Every day since mid-March an average of about 3,500 refugees returned home — mostly to the capital — according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Prices fell sharply. Goods and services became plentiful in the markets. The Government reopened 156 schools for girls and boys, and the universities reopened in an atmosphere of security and peace. Official delegations from the United States, Switzerland, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Korea, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Tajikistan, the Russian Federation, Uzbekistan, the People’s Republic of China and the Sudan, as well as many international organizations and others, came to Kabul. High-ranking Afghan delegations also travelled abroad. The Islamic State of Afghanistan even won an opportunity to take steps towards peace and regional security. Among the Tajikistan peace mediators, Professor Burhan-ud-din Rabbani, the President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, accomplished the most. We remember that his peace initiative conduced to unprecedented and positive changes regarding the civil strife in Tajikistan. Kabul city, for the first time, hosted direct talks between His Excellency Imam Ali Rakhmanov, the President of Tajikistan, and Sayed Abdullah Nouri, the leader of the Islamic Revival Movement, representing all the Tajik opposition. In a historic press conference the two leaders embraced each other and agreed on a longer-term cease- fire. Confidence-building measures were taken on the basis of domestic endeavours between Afghanistan and the opposition. The Islamic State of Afghanistan, with the aim of putting an end to all problems in the country, presented to the United Nations a peace plan, on most of whose items there emerged, for the first time, a sense of agreement among all sides. The plan pledged to the nation the convening of a Grand National Assembly — Loya Jirga, as we call it — within a year. The Islamic State of Afghanistan, while leaving to the United Nations Special Mission the question of the creation of an appropriate mechanism for the convening of the Grand National Assembly, promised to agree to the participation of the opposition groups in the current Supreme State Council and in the present one-year-term transitional Government until the convening of the Grand National Assembly. 7 As a result of these proposals the people of our country and of the region felt more optimistic about the return of peace to Afghanistan. However, those needlessly afraid of an independent, stable and self-reliant Afghanistan sought to change the course of events to coincide with their own interests. They once again used the made-up Taliban group — whose actual identity and character and the sources of whose funding and arming are yet to be made known to most of the members in this Hall — equipped with arms, light and heavy, from across the border of our country and with air power. Ironically enough, they recently chose to target the west of Afghanistan, which, according to earlier statements of Ambassador Mahmoud Mestiri, head of the United Nation Special Mission to Afghanistan, was the best model of healthy administration, order, stability and people’s welfare. Intent on exposing the Islamic State to instability, military intelligence services across the border tried hard to unite the opponents of the State under a single command. They boosted the Taliban mercenaries with their own frontier militia. Thousands of those being trained across Afghan borders launched attacks against the Shindand air base and a number of other western provinces of the country, including Herat, as a result of which the peaceful city of Herat was on 5 September turned into a place of occupation, chaos and insecurity. A great number of civilians lost their lives. Tens of thousands were forced to leave their houses. The bands of the so-called Taliban, or religious students, began their rule by closing schools for girls and the universities, as well as banning women from working in offices or teaching in schools. They have even forbidden the use of televisions and videos, and all movie theatres are closed down in the areas under their occupation. As the so-called Taliban are said to have the capability of jeopardizing any viable peace process in the country, I deem it necessary to register some basic facts about this mysterious movement. In Islamic countries there are many religious schools or “Madrasas” where several subjects related to Islam are taught. The purpose of these schools is to prepare Muslim youth for religious service to their countrymen. In no “Madrasa” in the world is the subject of modern warfare, such as the use of artillery and rockets, or the flying of warplanes, taught. That is the work of military academies. The only modern items the Taliban mercenaries are aware of are advanced armaments. As for their links with the outside, the most pertinent and very important question is: if their numbers are about 30,000, as they claim, and each of them would require $100 for daily and military expenses, who is paying the more than $88 million a month for their expenses? As for logistical support, for instance, it is calculated that in order for the Taliban to keep their transport vehicles, tanks and other armoured vehicles running they need more than 15,000 gallons of fuel each day. That is separate from almost the same amount of fuel that they require as reserve. Again, who is providing them with such huge logistical support? The Taliban have no single leader. They claim to have a Central Council in Kandahar. However, no platform or political agenda has been made known yet. The declarations of their many leaders are not consistent. On 20 September one of their leaders, Mullah Mishr, told Peter Greste, a correspondent of the Reuters news agency, that the problem of Afghanistan could only be solved through war. The Islamic State of Afghanistan expressed the intense indignation of its people and Government in its letters of 5 September 1995 (S/1995/767) and 14 September 1995 (S/1995/795) addressed to the Secretary- General, calling for immediate measures to end the state of occupation in western Afghanistan. We specifically requested the United Nations to send a fact-finding mission to the western part of the country to investigate and assess the reality of the state of occupation. That is the responsibility of the Security Council. The resistance of our people together with the forces of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, against the mercenaries and foreign militia, has been further strengthened. As a result, the Province of Ghowr, east of Herat, once occupied, has been liberated. The foreign armed intervention, however, reached a new dimension. The bands of mercenaries were reinforced west of Kabul to attack the capital, the plan of attack being engineered and guided from abroad. We strongly demand that the United Nations Special Mission break its silence regarding those mercenaries and answer the relevant questions, including whether this band is a threat to peace. This is particularly pertinent because the Special Mission once considered the Taliban to be a positive factor for peace. Is it not time for the Special Mission to find out the intentions of the Taliban in relation to General Assembly resolutions on Afghanistan? Events have proved that the United Nations Special Mission encountered many difficulties and challenges, owing to the lack of an adequate capability to carry out the mandate entrusted to it by General Assembly resolutions 48/208 and 49/140. To enhance the capabilities of the Special Mission, the Islamic State of Afghanistan submits the following five-point proposal. First, the necessity to reinforce the Mission requires the formation of a contact group on Afghanistan to speed up the peace process. The contact group on Afghanistan should be composed of one representative of the United Nations Special Mission; one representative of the Secretary-General of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, which is already active in the peace process in Afghanistan; one representative from among the member States of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, but not a country directly involved; one representative from among the members of the European Union; and one representative from among the members of the Non- Aligned Movement. Secondly, the contact group would promote the peace process in Afghanistan by focusing its endeavours in the light of information, evidence and documents provided to the Special Mission pertaining to the violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. Thirdly, the contact group on Afghanistan would search for ways and means to end foreign intervention and interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, and make effective and appropriate recommendations to the Secretary- General of the United Nations and to the Security Council. Fourthly, the various proposed programmes to bring peace to Afghanistan should be studied by the contact group in consultation with the involved Afghan parties. These endeavours would have the following objectives: Creation of a commission for the convening of the Grand National Assembly, or “Loya Jirga”; this commission would also have the mandate to draft the Constitution, to include a firm disposition guaranteeing democracy and human rights for the future Afghanistan. Convening of the Grand National Assembly, or “Loya Jirga”, within one year. Election of the future leader of Afghanistan for a subsequent fixed term of office. Adoption of the Constitution. Formation of the first parliament from among the members of the Grand National Assembly, which could represent the administrative units of the country on the basis of their proportion of population. Fifthly, the contact group on Afghanistan would immediately approach all Afghan groups and invite them to participate in the Supreme State Council and Government, until the formation of the Grand National Assembly, or “Loya Jirga”. The contact group on Afghanistan would also play a crucial role in the reconstruction of the country, as required by General Assembly resolution 49/140, adopted on 20 December 1994. We consider that proposal, which has already been submitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, to be a secure and short path towards peace, national rapprochement and stability, through the cessation of hostilities. To those who refuse to accept the one-year lapse of time for that peace process, insisting on an unconditional and immediate transfer of power, we say that a period of one year is not long in the life of a nation. Had there been an agreement a year ago for the transfer of power and for the consolidation of the political process, we would by now have been in the process of transferring power. We solemnly ask the General Assembly to take this proposal into consideration when discussing the agenda item on Afghanistan during this historic fiftieth session. Having said this, we would like to state — for those who insist on the need for a military solution to the problem — that the Islamic State of Afghanistan, while willing to transfer power to a legitimate and lawful authority, has the capacity and capability to respond to the terrorist acts of mercenaries linked to foreign quarters. Afghanistan would not allow any circles to undermine the process of the peaceful transfer of power and the normal political process that is to be implemented under the supervision of the United Nations and the 9 Organization of the Islamic Conference. Those cliques of outsiders who are recruiting, training, arming, and providing financial assistance to the mercenaries — as well as reinforcing them with their own militia — and using such reactionary groups to destabilize a moderate Islamic system which believes in democracy and human rights, are wrong in their assessments and calculations. Such foreign circles may think that after the usurpation of power by the Taliban all will go well for them. In fact, they will add a further problem, especially by bringing onto the scene a faction which has no factual presence on Afghanistan’s political scene. These circles should be aware that the peace and security in the capital, the actual relative peace and stability in the country and in the region, would be jeopardized by such an erroneous miscalculation. The same error was made by the former Soviet Union in 1979. For the record, we would like to emphasize that those who ignite a fire in our country will burn themselves. It would then be too late to return to the peaceful political process on which we are now trying to embark. The statement made by His Excellency the Foreign Minister of Pakistan on 27 September 1995 before this Assembly pertaining to the relation between Afghanistan and Pakistan was itself a clear illustration of his Government’s unfriendly intentions towards my country. The assertions of His Excellency the Foreign Minister of Pakistan, as contained in his statement, need to be responded to for the sake of the record. First, the Pakistani Foreign Minister was trying to confuse our friends and to divert the attention of world public opinion from his country’s own acts of blatant interference in Afghanistan and from the invasion by its militia in assisting the so-called Taliban in Western Afghanistan to the tragic incident in the Pakistani Embassy at Kabul. In this regard the following explanations are necessary. I express, on behalf of His Excellency the President and the Government and the people of Afghanistan, profound regret about the very sad and grievous incident that occurred in the Embassy of Pakistan at Kabul on 6 September 1995. This message has also been forwarded by an official note of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan to the Foreign Ministry of Pakistan. Furthermore, I have conveyed two messages by telephone from Kabul to His Excellency Mr. Najmuddin Sheikh, Foreign Secretary of Pakistan. The tragic incident contradicts the traditional hospitality of the Afghan people. While we express our grief at the incident, which we consider unjustifiable, at the same time we say that some aspects of the events have been overlooked by the Foreign Minister of Pakistan, whose Government tried to use different forums for political gains through a distortion of the facts. Allow me, for the sake of the record, to point out the sequence of incidents as they occurred. On 6 September 1995, on the morrow of the occupation of Herat City by the so-called Taliban mercenaries, with the help of foreign militias, the people of Kabul held a peaceful demonstration. Tens of thousands of peaceful demonstrators gathered outside the compound of the Embassy of Pakistan at Kabul chanting anti-Pakistani slogans. The staff of the Embassy, contrary to all recognized principles of international law, used a firearm from inside the Embassy premises against the peaceful demonstrators. This caused the death of one of the students, a student by the name of Badruddin Muslim, an eleventh grader in the Naderia High School of Kabul. This highly unjustifiable and provocative act of the Embassy staff incited the fury of the demonstrators, who in the beginning were non-violent and peaceful, gathered only to express their deep resentment at the occupation of part of their country. It is noteworthy that the security forces of the Government were already active in the early morning, having observed the spontaneous gathering of people in different parts of Kabul city. The security forces formed two security belts around the Embassy premises. However, the death of the young demonstrator caused a sudden reaction and, unfortunately, the crowd got out of control. The security forces tried their utmost to prevent the upsurge of violence and to protect the Embassy and its staff. Regrettably, despite the losses suffered by the security forces, five of whose personnel were killed while protecting the Embassy, they did not succeed in preventing this tragic event. Mr. Ejaz Ali, the Third Secretary of the Pakistani Embassy at Kabul, a witness to the event, acknowledged in an interview at Islamabad airport on 7 September 1995 that the security forces of the Afghan Government exerted efforts to avert the tragic happening. We declare from this rostrum that the Afghan nation never had recourse to terrorism, even during the long years of resistance against the invasion of their country by the former Soviet Union. That fact clearly shows that, despite heavy sacrifices by the Afghan nation, it never had recourse to terrorist acts against any consulate or embassy of the former Soviet Union. 10 Secondly, in his statement the Foreign Minister of Pakistan referred nine times to the Islamic State of Afghanistan as the “Kabul regime” or the “Rabbani regime”. We do not intend to reciprocate with similar unfair language because of our sincerity and commitment to friendship towards Pakistan. Thirdly, it is ironic to witness His Excellency the Foreign Minister of Pakistan prescribing the type, nature and characteristics of a government that he would like to see in Afghanistan. My delegation, however, reciprocates the sense of good will and brotherhood he expressed regarding our two nations. Moreover, we recall with appreciation the strong sense of brotherhood and Islamic solidarity by which the fraternal nation of Pakistan extended its support to the just struggle, the Jihad of the Afghan nation, against the invading forces of the former Soviet Union. We trust that our Pakistani brothers are also fully aware of the sacrifices we made when Afghanistan served as a shield for the protection of Pakistan territories against the most important mobilization of an army since the war in Viet Nam. However, our complaint is addressed, not to the nation of Pakistan, but against the manifest interferences of Pakistani authorities, especially the Inter-Service Intelligence (ISI), which is the Pakistani military intelligence. Sometimes the explanations of the Pakistani Government, which claims to remain impartial, seem to be justified owing to the fact that the Pakistani civilian administration is not capable of containing the operations of the ISI, a powerful military-intelligence body which has emerged as a State within the State. Secondly, we wonder which of the internationally accepted norms and principles governing relations between nations justify the Pakistani desire to prescribe the type and characteristics of government for a sovereign and independent neighbour. Could there be any clearer example of Pakistani interference in our internal affairs? The Foreign Minister of Pakistan has repeatedly claimed that Pakistan is not interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. Let us leave aside all evidence pertaining to the aggression of the Pakistani frontier militia on Afghan territory, as set out in the documents of the Security Council that we have submitted, as well as the comments and statements of independent international reporters and scholarly analysts on Afghanistan identifying and highlighting the interference of Pakistani military intelligence in the internal affairs of Afghanistan as the only source of the present-day conflict in Afghanistan. We need only refer to internationally recognized newspapers: The Washington Times, in its issue of 24 September 1995, The Times of London, 26 September 1995, and The Canberra Times, 11 September 1995. Both The Washington Times and The Times of London quote Ambassador Mestiri’s comments regarding the so-called Taliban and Pakistan’s involvement in supporting them. The Times of London of Tuesday, 26 September 1995, under the headline “Student army gives notice of attack on Kabul”, states, “Mahmoud Mestiri, who heads the United Nations peace efforts in Afghanistan, said he was convinced Pakistan was behind the Taliban group”. The Washington Times of 24 September 1995, in an article entitled “Pakistan aid to rebels has Kabul talking war”, states, “Even the United Nations special envoy to Afghanistan is suspicious ... The power of Taliban is mysterious', envoy Mahmoud Mestiri said. I think they are getting money and help, maybe from Pakistan'.” The same article, written by Ian Stewart of the Associated Press, contains a description of a Taliban fighter: “One of a new breed of noble fighter in Afghanistan, the dust-caked 19-year-old is armed with a Kalashnikov and the writings of the Muslim Prophet Mohammed and trained, he says, in Pakistan”. In his statement, the Foreign Minister of Pakistan cannot conceal the true intention of his Government with respect to Afghanistan. He inadvertently uncovers the intention: “provocation will not deter us from our steadfast path of neutrality towards the Afghan people and the unity of Afghanistan or from non-interference in Afghanistan’s internal affairs, nor will it affect our abiding friendship and brotherhood with the Afghan nation”. (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 8th meeting, p. 22) 11 However, subsequently the Foreign Minister of Pakistan negates the spirit of the above by saying, “In the meantime, we would like to assure the people of Afghanistan that we shall stand by them in their hour of trial. We shall not abandon them.” (ibid.) I am certain that the words “we shall stand by them in their hour of trial” will raise a question in the minds of the Members of the Assembly: what could Pakistan’s intention be in making such a statement? The former Soviet Union’s aggression in Afghanistan is long over. Our nation would like our neighbours and the world to assist us in our endeavours towards national reconciliation and peace. Moreover, His Excellency the Foreign Minister of Pakistan promises that they will not abandon the Afghans. The Assembly should realize that this amounts to assuring the opposition of the Afghan Government that Pakistan will continue interfering in Afghanistan’s affairs in their favour until the Islamic State is destabilized and a proxy Government obedient to the will of Pakistan’s Government is brought to power. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Pakistan has cast into doubt the legitimacy and legality of the Afghan Government and the territory governed by it. We call on His Excellency the Foreign Minister of Pakistan to allow any impartial observer to visit the north-western agencies and find out if the central Government of Pakistan has any administrative authority over them. Is it not a fact that the production of firearms has continued, as an ongoing traditional trade, ever since the establishment of Pakistan? Where is heroin, the most dangerous enemy of humanity, produced and refined? John F. Burns of The New York Times wrote, “Top army officers have been accused in the past of conniving with drug lords, to the extent of running heroin shipments to Karachi aboard army-owned trucks”. (“Heroin scourges million Pakistanis”, The New York Times, 5 April 1995, Section A, p. 12) The Islamic State of Afghanistan and Pakistan will both be losers if they try to confront each other. The only way leading towards securing both countries’ highest interests is to re-establish, broaden and consolidate their mutual brotherly relations on the basis of equality of States, respect for each other’s territorial integrity and sovereignty and the right of each to determine its own future. President Rabbani is a strong believer in the perpetual necessity for both countries to establish ties of fraternity and cooperation. Both countries, and the entire region of Asia where they live side by side, will gain through Afghan-Pakistani friendship. While the international community is deploying efforts to prevent conflicts and wars, the peace and security of individuals and of human communities are under the threat of an undeclared and inhumane war waged by the world’s terrorists. This year the world has witnessed terrible terrorist acts, such as the tragedies in Oklahoma City, Paris and Tokyo, in which many innocent civilians lost their lives. Prosperity and the welfare of the human being cannot be secured without tranquillity and peace of mind. If the international community does not take drastic measures to eradicate terrorism, people in different regions of the world will continue to live in fear and under the menace of terrorist acts. Islam teaches the principle of the rights of innocents to live in safety and dignity. The Islamic State of Afghanistan considers that there is a great need for the signing of an international treaty ensuring meaningful cooperation between States, in the form of a convention to combat terrorism. Afghanistan, as one of the early Members of the United Nations, contributed to the drafting, discussion and adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and participated in the drafting of both Covenants of Human Rights. We once again reaffirm our deep commitment to these international instruments. The Islamic State of Afghanistan considers respect for human rights one of its fundamental objectives. During the year under consideration, however, the human rights of a number of Afghan citizens in the country, as well as international humanitarian law, have, unfortunately, been violated as a result of the continued terror perpetrated by the so-called Taliban. The Taliban mercenaries’ closing of schools for girls and depriving women of their right to work has been a major violation of human rights. The Islamic State of Afghanistan has the conviction that taking appropriate and effective international measures towards putting an end to foreign interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan would serve as a major step towards the realization of human rights in the country. As far as the issue of women’s rights in Afghanistan is concerned, as brought to the attention of Mr. Paik, the 12 new United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Afghanistan, during his recent trip to Kabul, such concerns do not seem to be appropriate in the case of a country where 383 women army officers, ranking from the position of Lieutenant-General to lower positions, defend their people and country; where women are serving as pilots in the Army, as well as parachutists; and where women are representing their country at Afghanistan diplomatic missions and are serving in various branches of the Administration. Women’s rights are guaranteed in the presently enforced laws and regulations governing the life of our nation. I turn now to the question of land-mines. For the first time, an international meeting was held in Geneva on mine clearance. This meeting further enhanced international awareness of different dimensions of the land-mine crisis and contributed to strengthening international cooperation. It is an alarming fact that every year, while 100,000 land- mines are removed, more than 2 million land-mines are laid. An estimated 30 people are killed by land-mines, and as many as 60 are maimed, every single day. The slow pace of demining operations is another major concern to be noted. According to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), at the current pace of the mine-removal process, it will take 1,100 years to get rid of existing mines - and the laying of mines continues in different regions of the world. As we already stated in the Geneva meeting on mine clearance, only the adoption of a convention which would ban the production, sale and stockpiling of all varieties of land-mines, and especially a sincere commitment on the part of mine-producing countries to such an instrument, would serve effectively to put an end to this problem. Afghanistan, a war-stricken country, where the largest number of land-mines have been laid, needs further assistance from the international community. This assistance would further help the cause of the repatriation of refugees and the revitalization of agricultural activities all over the country. The Islamic State of Afghanistan expresses its serious concern at the acts of aggression and genocide that continue to be committed against the people of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Effective measures should be taken to put an end, once and for all, to this tragic crisis. Srebrenica and Zepa must be restored as safe areas and the siege of Sarajevo must be ended. The International Tribunal on war crimes in the former Yugoslavia should bring to justice those Serbian civil and military individuals who perpetrated crimes of war and genocide, and crimes against humanity. Afghanistan has repeatedly maintained the view that the arms embargo against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not applicable de jure. The right of the victim to self-defence has to be respected and restored. I would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to one of the great threats to the life, health and well-being of present and future generations. This man-made plague is narcotic drugs, and its production, sale and smuggling. The expansion of the poppy fields in my country, Afghanistan, as one of the legacies of war, is unfortunate. Statistics show that the cultivation of poppy increased during 1994, as compared to 1993. This is in spite of the allocation of about $25 million, which the international community spent in Afghanistan through non- governmental organizations. The Islamic State of Afghanistan cannot agree to the procedure through which the assistance was channeled. Perhaps an evaluation is needed to correct the procedure. The Islamic State of Afghanistan declares its sincere readiness to cooperate effectively with regional and international organizations. We are working for the preparation of a master plan to effectively combat narcotic drugs on the regional and international levels. We have invited Mr. Giacomelli, the Executive Director of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, to visit Afghanistan and speed up the drawing up of such a master plan. We have had critical episodes in our life, but we have a vision of a peaceful and stable Afghanistan; an Afghanistan which it is hoped this Assembly will render free of foreign interference in its internal affairs; an Afghanistan where our people come to be blessed with brotherhood and understanding, national conciliation and unity; a country to which its 3 million refugees will have returned with confidence and assurance, and where our intellectuals, as a source of hope, will dedicate their vast energy and experience and their scientific and physical potential to the cause of rebuilding their country; a country that will once again serve as a major factor in the strengthening of regional peace and stability; a country that will be actively involved in the common efforts of this world family in combating extremism, adhering to a positive and dynamic impartial and non-aligned policy, and firmly participating in combating terrorism and drug abuse. Such a vision takes its source from the heart of our nation. Our expectation of the world community is that it assist us in achieving these goals. The objectives of the reconstruction and economic development of Afghanistan cannot be achieved without economic assistance from 13 industrialized nations and other countries that are able to furnish such assistance. Afghanistan has enormous economic capabilities. During the time the former Soviet Union thought of our country as its strategic backyard, the world’s major corporations were prevented from becoming involved in the exploration of Afghanistan’s natural resources and wealth. At the threshold of Afghanistan’s reconstruction and rehabilitation, possibilities exist for the exploration of our natural wealth, such as natural gas, oil, copper, iron, precious stones and even uranium. Afghanistan can become a major producer and exporter of fruit. Once the crisis is over, Afghanistan will emerge as one of the most attractive sites for private investment. Afghanistan, a land-locked country, is now vitally important at the heart of Asia, connecting Central Asia to the south and the Middle East as a historical transit route. From this rostrum, we invite the industrialized countries, as well as private sectors, to benefit from the enormous investment opportunities in our country. In this context, the Islamic State of Afghanistan warmly welcomes delegations determined to conduct relevant studies, as it is expecting a number of potential investors in the coming month. This move would itself contribute towards the further strengthening of stability and an early return of peace to Afghanistan. Allow me first to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, and Portugal, on his election to lead the General Assembly through this important fiftieth session. I should also like to record Singapore’s appreciation to his distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire. I also take this opportunity to thank our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his continuing dedication to the purposes of the United Nations. In recent years the United Nations has had much to do with peace-keeping and human rights. They are important matters, but the United Nations is not just about peace-keeping or human rights. International economic cooperation is one of the important purposes of the United Nations as defined by our Charter. Poverty breeds conflict, but abject poverty makes a mockery of all civil liberties. Our Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development should give cause for all of us to reflect on the United Nations role in the world economy. Of the five decades of the existence of the United Nations, four have been dedicated to development. Vast sums have been expended, but with what result? Specialized agencies like the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the United Nations Development 21 Programme (UNDP) do not hit the headlines, but are the most successful institutions in the United Nations system. They make quiet, unglamorous, but no-less-valuable contributions to human dignity and international order than do the Blue Helmets or the High Commissioner for Human Rights. Unfortunately, however, there is a limit to what the specialized agencies can do to help uplift the individual national economies. The latest United Nations World Economic and Social Survey announces the good news that the global economy has reached the cruising speed of 3 per cent growth. But for many countries this news is somewhat abstract and irrelevant to their day-to-day concerns. That same report speaks delicately of distinctions between robust, vulnerable and weak developing economies. This polite language only masks the continuing reality of degradation, poverty, misery, disease and death. Ten years ago the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) officially classified 36 Member States as least developed. Five years ago this number had risen to 42, and as of August this year there were 48 least developed countries. All forecasts project an even more skewed distribution of global income. The marginalization of more than a quarter of the membership of the United Nations in the world economy must surely be recognized as a serious problem. Those Members cannot be shunted aside indefinitely without provoking a major breakdown of international order. Yet today key development institutions are under attack. Indeed, the very role of the United Nations in the global economy risks marginalization. Why is this so? First, lack of a consensus on a post- cold-war strategic rationale for development is one important factor. Secondly, the endemic tension between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions, a contest for power and control, is another factor. Thirdly, the failure of Member States, especially major contributors, to pay their dues in full and on time has created severe budgetary pressures on the United Nations to cut back development programmes. These, however, are only partial explanations. The key factor is the failure of the United Nations to respond to the central economic phenomenon of our time: the globalization of the international economy and the emergence of what has been termed a borderless world. For better or for worse, sovereign nation-States will be around for a long time to come. Governments are and will continue to be key players in the world economy. But a model of sovereign States, interacting only at the margins of their existence, no longer adequately describes the contemporary world economy. Modern technology and communications have led to money, trade and investments flashing across borders in ways that Governments cannot control. This is redefining the very notions of resources, wealth and value. Therefore, we have to cope with a globalized international economy in which national actions are no longer adequate or effective, but in which, at the same time, Governments and States still cannot be disregarded. Europe, the Americas and the Asia-Pacific region have responded in different ways, such as with the European Union (EU), the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and, in a looser form, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). Africa is also looking at its own regional economic groupings. These experiments represent some of the most significant developments in contemporary international relations. They may define a post-cold-war structure for international order in the next century. The United Nations, like its individual Members, is struggling to comprehend and catch up with the implications of a globalized international economy. But the United Nations has been more sluggish to respond than many of its Members. When we speak of regionalization in the United Nations, we are referring primarily to the regional commissions, which, however, are entirely divorced from the important regional economic groupings. This is a symptom of a wider problem. At a time when most significant developments in the world economy are taking place outside the United Nations, one can legitimately ask what the role of the United Nations is in the new world economy. There is a danger that it will play no role at all unless it urgently takes stock of its current approach to economic issues. Saving the United Nations from being relegated to irrelevance requires an attitudinal shift that cuts across both North and South. Member States from both the North and the South must accept a new discipline. We must forsake ideology for pragmatism and posturing for practicality in order to concentrate on a more focused and compact economic agenda. This will give the United 22 Nations the tools it needs to cope with the new kind of global economy that is emerging. The United Nations must emphasize its strengths, not its weaknesses. It is not the best forum to negotiate specialized and technical matters. Neither is the United Nations an executive body for matters of trade or finance; that role properly belongs to the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization. The strengths of the United Nations are political, which is a plus because the new world economy demands political as well as technical responses. The new globalized economy has sharply focused development issues that policy makers and theoreticians have grappled with for decades. The strictly economic debate over appropriate development strategies is over. Opting out is clearly not an option. It will only accelerate the pace of marginalization. However, it has become equally clear that the magic of the market is not enough. Only the United Nations can meet the two resulting political challenges. They are, first, coping with the political consequences of rapid but uneven economic growth and, secondly, helping the least developed to build the institutions that will allow them to plug into the globalized economy. Let me elaborate. First, the process of rapid growth in some countries has caused political tensions between the successful developing countries and the mature Western economies. The latter have continued to grow, but more slowly and without significant increases in employment or improvements in real living standards. Job creation and job protection will certainly be high on the agendas of political leaders throughout the industrialized world for at least the next decade. There has been a concerted and sometimes very vocal effort to link economic issues to workers’ rights, human rights, social conditions and environmental standards. Developing countries view this as bad faith, feeling that the industrialized countries are using any pretext to hobble and handicap the developing world. The critical issue is not really the rights and wrongs of the case. It is managing shifts in relative positions of power. A way has to be found to contain the inevitable strains and stresses between the old rich and the newly affluent economies. Continuing tensions are debilitating and will slow growth for everyone. The goal is to shape an international order that will both optimize conditions for growth and facilitate the rescue of the least developed countries. There will be little attention paid to their needs if there is constant jostling and tension between the successful developing countries and the mature economies. There is therefore a need for overarching frameworks that can help manage relations between the successful developing countries and the mature economies. There is a need to impose a global coherence and discipline on the emerging international system built around regional economic groupings. This is not a function that can be performed by the Bretton Woods institutions or even the World Trade Organization. After all, the first reaction of Europe and the United States to the conclusion of the Uruguay Round was more assertive unilateralism. To play a role in forging such frameworks, the United Nations must find the political will to reach genuine consensus — not just on paper — on a realistic global economic agenda. But this will require self- discipline. When one reads the action plans and agendas of many United Nations economic bodies, it is sometimes a depressing exercise in political archaeology. Layer upon layer of issues, some dating back to the 1960s and the 1970s, are added with every passing session of the General Assembly and conference. Their relevance to contemporary problems is dubious. What is very puzzling is that, in reality, most Member States have in actual national practice long since discarded the attitudes and policies which are still faithfully placed on the United Nations agenda and solemnly debated and discussed in an archaic annual ritual. United Nations economic bodies must therefore eschew the temptation to pretend to micro-manage international economic affairs by delving into the nitty- gritty of issues they sometimes imperfectly comprehend. But I do not advocate a completely laissez-faire approach. A globalized economy urgently demands management precisely because it is rapidly moving beyond the control of even the most powerful. But it requires different management techniques. The day of the hegemonic manager of the international economic system is passing. In the new world economy, international order can be assured only by the development of rule-based multilateral regimes that define broad parameters for 23 economic forces that are not susceptible to micro- management. So the United Nations is the only universal international Organization with a Charter that gives it a mandate to range across the spectrum of issues that require attention. If the United Nations can find the political will and self-discipline, it will be potentially well placed, in our view, to develop a genuine consensus on an agenda for such regimes. Rule-based multilateral regimes are not just in the interest of small and weak States. The predictability and stability they confer benefits all of us. It will be increasingly uncomfortable and difficult for even the strongest to assert themselves unilaterally in a globalized economy where business, finance, trade and industry cannot always be neatly categorized along national lines. A blow aimed at an opponent’s chin may end up bruising one’s own shoulder. If the United Nations can develop consensus on an agenda, its relationship with the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization will naturally fall into place. It will clearly be their responsibility to flesh out and implement the global regimes on an agenda agreed to by the United Nations. But these institutions are correct to resist if, as is now all too often the case, the agenda is impractical and delves too deeply into matters of detail. Secondly, the new globalized international economy has challenged the belief that developing countries could grow simply by relaxing controls and privatizing. This is a necessary but insufficient condition. In all of the most successful developing countries, good, strong and stable government has always played a key role. The World Bank’s 1993 report entitled “The East Asian Miracle” reveals that the miracle was not so much a miracle after all. The secret was getting the macroeconomic fundamentals right. But that has been known for decades. Yet there has been no growth in much of the world. The difference was public policy. Developing countries that try to follow the East Asian model often fail, not because they do not know what the correct economic policies are, but because they lack the political underpinnings to make such policies stick. It is the government that will determine whether a country can plug into the fast moving global economy, or whether it will be bypassed. Therefore, an urgent and delicate problem is how the United Nations can help the least developed to build government and political institutions that will enable them to plug into the globalized economy for development, without intruding too brashly into their domestic affairs. Article 2, paragraph 7, of the Charter is still the basic cornerstone of the United Nations. A multilateral approach to this sensitive question may be more acceptable than crude bilateralism. But to deal realistically with this issue, the United Nations must set aside what has become a largely theological debate about the relationship between democracy, development and human rights — a phrase which has become part of the accepted language of development debates. But it is harmful and misleading if it implies an inevitable or simple linear causality. Of course, these concepts may well be linked in some way. But let us be clear that what we are really talking about is the relationship between democracy and human rights, on the one hand, and development, on the other. In other words, the causality is not linear, simple or inevitable. There is no question that repression is wrong and unhealthy and will stifle growth. There is also ample empirical evidence to prove beyond any doubt that economic growth requires political stability and good government. The terms “democracy” and “good government” are often used as if they were synonyms. Of course they overlap to a degree, but they are not the same thing. Singapore’s experience is that good government must be erected on three interrelated pillars: political accountability, a long-term orientation, and social justice. For long-term stability, Governments must govern with the support of the governed. Governments that do not deliver will not last. But this fact and the need for periodic free and fair elections do not prescribe any particular model of political system or ideology. So the clash and clamour of contending interests, street demonstrations and a rambunctious and abusive press may make for more exciting television for some Western audiences. It may even work for some countries. But more often than not it contradicts the second pillar of good government, which is long-term orientation. That requires the ability to resist populist and sectional pressures and, on occasion, administer bitter medicine to overcome economic challenges. Singapore’s experience has convinced us that the first duty of government is to govern, and also govern fairly. At times, this will require a firm hand. The third element of good government is social justice. There should be equal opportunities for all groups. If the Government is fair to all ethnic, religious and social groups, it will not be beholden to any special interest. This is important in any society. It has been one of the reasons for Singapore’s political stability and social cohesion. But Singapore does not hold itself up as a 24 model, although we are happy, and prepared, to share our experience with anyone who may be interested. No one can prescribe any particular model of political development for any country. Indeed, when this is attempted dogmatically, with only a superficial understanding of the complexities of specific situations, it leads to disaster. Our basic assumption is a fundamentally pragmatic and pluralist one — that there are no models that can be applied everywhere. So growth and stability are linked by a complex and subtle dynamic: an unrelenting search for an equilibrium between the rights of the individual, the claims of the community to which every individual must belong, and the no less urgent need for Governments to govern effectively and fairly. No balance between individual liberty and growth can be valid for all countries are for all time. Every society must find its own appropriate equilibrium in the context of its own historical and cultural experiences if the country is to progress. Singapore straddles the developed and the developing worlds. Our population generally enjoys a comfortable standard of living, and our economy has a relatively sophisticated service and industrial sector, performing global roles. But Singapore also has structural vulnerabilities; it has resource limitations that prevent us from being fully developed as yet. Therefore, it is with a special perspective that we in Singapore observe the ongoing debates in and about the United Nations economic institutions. Sometimes we wonder: whose interests are really served by a prolonged debate, increasingly divorced from global economic reality? Is it the interest of those who want to preserve these institutions, or of those who would prefer to relegate them to some historical dead end? I do not have the answer to that question, but I raise it as one that merits urgent attention. I do not think there is much time left. I must begin my statement by echoing the words of previous speakers who have congratulated Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election by acclamation to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. On my own behalf and on behalf of the delegation of Madagascar, which I have the honour to head, I have pleasure in saying that we rely greatly on his experience and wisdom in ensuring that our work will be crowned with success at the conclusion of our debates. Whilst assuring him of the cooperation and support of my delegation, I would also like to congratulate the other officers of the Assembly. It gives me particular pleasure to pay tribute to our colleague, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Mr. Freitas do Amaral’s distinguished predecessor, for the enthusiasm and dynamism he demonstrated in the service of the General Assembly, which under his presidency carried out its mandate well and always to the satisfaction of countries like my own. Lastly, may I express our appreciation for the efforts made by the Secretariat to ensure the efficient organization of our work, under the competent leadership of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Boutros Ghali. Since our current session coincides with the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations Charter, it goes without saying that, as the Secretary-General stressed in his report on the work of the Organization, it is an occasion not only to take stock of the first half-century of our Organization and to prepare for the second, but also to seek ways to keep up the momentum of the first years of the decade in world affairs. After the collapse of the Berlin Wall, a true symbol of the cold war, history has witnessed a series of events that strengthen confidence in the principles and agreements enshrined in the Charter: the independence of Namibia; the formation of the first democratic multiracial Government in South Africa; the holding of democratic elections marking the end of a long period of civil strife in Mozambique and one-party rule in Malawi; the promising steps taken by several southern African countries towards reconstruction; the process of reconciliation in the Middle East, recently added to by the agreement — welcomed by Madagascar, along with all other peace-loving nations — extending autonomy in the West Bank; and, lastly, certain encouraging signs with regard to the situation in the former Yugoslavia. Paradoxically, however, the end of the era of ideological confrontations, while accelerating the integration of world society, has also promoted an increase in conflicts, sources of outbursts of violence and savagery, resulting not only from conflicts between States, but also, unfortunately, from ethnic, civil, religious and other deep-rooted causes within a collapsing State or States. This trend, one of the most marked of the post- war period, seems to be growing, in the context of an international community that is powerless, disarmed and, above all, disillusioned. As regards Africa, to which Madagascar belongs, I refer in this regard to the genocide in Rwanda, whose impact is still felt by international public opinion; the continuation of civil war in Liberia, in Sudan and Angola; and the spiral of violence and violations of human rights in Gambia, one of the oldest democracies in West Africa, following a coup d’état. Other conflicts still continue in Europe and elsewhere. At the risk of offending some, I must say that most, if not all, of these hotbeds are fuelled in particular by sales of illicit weapons — I should rather, say “authorized sales of weapons”. Their proliferation shows the ineffectiveness of the relevant international conventions and of the measures enacted by the international community. They also run counter to the efforts made to reduce worldwide expenditures on armaments since 1987 in order to obtain the peace dividend. International public opinion was also deeply shocked by the coup d’état carried out by mercenaries against the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros. Madagascar strongly condemned that putsch, and congratulates France on the happy outcome of Operation Azalea to re-establish institutional legality in the Comoros. The disillusionment that I have described, disillusionment bordering on hopelessness, has other aspects which are even more threatening to the world’s security. Indeed, both in the North and in the South we 11 are witnessing an upsurge of intolerance, of xenophobia — in brief, of fear or the rejection of difference, of all differences. These feelings are exacerbated by individual and collective frustrations born of poverty, of marginalization and of social injustice. This picture is complemented by environmental degradation, a sluggish economy, the depletion of natural resources, the disintegration of the social fabric, the spread of drug use, international terrorism, pandemics, natural disasters, unemployment and famine. To sum up, there is a whole range of global threats which are no longer confined within national borders. It would be a truism to assert that solving these problems calls for us to be farsighted, to step back so as to get a global view and go beyond the outdated approach of resolving the challenges facing us case by case. That is why Madagascar must support all the efforts to implement the globalizing structural approach in the Agenda for Peace. However, we must recognize that any initiatives in this field will be in vain if there continue to be contradictions between the diplomacy of States and the diplomacy of the United Nations, because it is quite obvious that the future of today’s societies lies within a space that is broadening to encompass the dimensions of the universe. This fundamental refocusing must be the purpose of a rational reorganization of our organs and institutions, which, given the social, political and economic conditions prevailing when they were established, now have limitations, gaps and shortcomings when it comes to responding to the expectations of today’s world. In Madagascar’s view, what is needed is, first, to enlarge the Security Council on the basis of equitable geographical distribution in order to ensure the democratization of international relations. Secondly, the General Assembly must be given greater means, and especially more powers, to put an end to the old cliché that this organ is merely a forum for rhetoric and orotund speechmaking. Thirdly, as indicated in “An Agenda for Peace,” there must be a considerable strengthening of the mechanisms for the pacific settlement of disputes set forth in Chapter VI of the Charter, which would seem in practice to have become the poor relation of Chapter VII, with its authorization of the use of force as a last resort. Indeed, in this connection, I would make so bold as to say that any and all reform of the United Nations must also entail more careful attention to the provisions of Chapter VII. This strengthening should include giving first priority in United Nations bodies to the prevention of violence by developing a policy and strategy centred on development. There, the General Assembly could play a more important role, in conjunction with the Security Council, by, for example, in the framework of re-establishing peace, strengthening the role of United Nations forces used as buffers in international, ethnic or civil conflicts. Paragraph 7 of Article 2 of the Charter expressly excludes any intervention in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State. The settlement of national conflicts, which falls within the competence of the United Nations and which still requires the support of the country concerned, must be viewed as the carrying out of efforts to establish democracy and the rule of law and to inculcate a spirit of tolerance and non- violence. There is also the question of strengthening regional structures for the peaceful settlement of disputes, such as those that already exist within the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Non-Aligned Movement. Lastly, there is the question of strengthening regional cooperation in the sphere of disarmament so as to block the uncontrolled movements of weapons and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It is in this spirit that Madagascar supported the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and is about to ratify various international conventions, such as the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction and the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons. In the economic and social sphere, there is no need to stress that world development also presents a scenario of contrasts and disparities, whereas there had been reason to hope that the post-cold-war period would see a de facto mobilization of the international community in support of development. Even worse, the outlook is far from encouraging. Poverty and hardship have become endemic in the so-called fourth world — the “storm zones”, to use an expression borrowed from the jargon of today’s experts — which is also prey to natural disasters in addition to its internal problems, resulting from political instability and imbalanced economies. The balance of payments continues to show a deficit because of the crushing burden of external debt and the fluctuations in the prices of raw materials, accompanied 12 by — to cap it all — a stagnation and even a decline in development assistance. We are also witnessing various forms of protectionism in the countries of the North, while the countries of the South are being urged to liberalize trade. The result is increased marginalization of the poor countries, which are deriving absolutely no benefit from the globalization of the world economy, and increased social disparities both between and within nations. That adverse trend is leading to the formation of an international social apartheid. In the United Nations, the establishment of the Economic and Social Council embodied the poor countries’ hopes for recovery, but it has become clear that its administrative machinery is still cumbersome and unsuited to its task. It has gradually become paralysed by the multiplication of its organs, without any real follow-up or control, and its high operating cost. At last July’s session of the Council in Geneva, emphasis was put on the need to give it greater vigour by strengthening its competencies and powers. If development is today recognized as a human right, Madagascar believes that that it is largely thanks to the United Nations, which has advanced the notion of interdependence between economic development, democracy and respect for human rights. Therefore, one of the United Nations primary duties is to create and strengthen the institutional structure needed to implement the norms it has identified for the promotion of development. In that connection, Madagascar will participate with attention and interest in the General Assembly’s debate on An Agenda for Development. Similarly, we shall follow with interest the implementation of the proposals contained in the Communiqué of the G-7 Summit held last June in Halifax, proposals designed to promote sustainable development and better share the fruits of growth. We welcome the G-7’s express offer to cooperate in formulating a new approach to international cooperation and in defining the contribution expected of the United Nations system, which is seeking through a series of world conferences — recently in Beijing, previously in Rio, Copenhagen and Vienna, and next year in Istanbul — to engage, beyond national borders, in combined, effective action against poverty, unemployment and social disintegration. Those conferences are part of the attempts to renew and improve United Nations methodologies and strategies in the sphere of cooperation for development. I cannot fail to refer to the beneficial activities in Madagascar coordinated by the United Nations Development Programme and carried out through the United Nations system of operational activities and especially by the United Nations Children’s Fund. Nor must I forget the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the United Nations Population Fund, whose mid-term review of the third country programme with Madagascar was completed at the end of August. In the same context we welcome the Secretary- General’s initiative on a steering committee to prepare specific short-term and medium-term projects for the development of Africa in such priority areas as food security, the strengthening of institutions, the development of the private sector, desertification and social development. The viability and survival of our planet depend, beyond cooperation, on our ability to adapt to the new realities and constraints we face. As we approach 1996, declared by the General Assembly as the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty, my delegation wanted today briefly to outline some of the proposals my country is presenting to contribute to making the dreams of the founding fathers of the Charter come true, although we know full well that our proposals are incomplete and that even an improved and ideal United Nations would be unable on its own to solve all the problems before it. The building of a better world, to which we all aspire, remains dependent on establishing international relations based on the principle of cooperation and solidarity and on respect for the principles and norms that govern international relations. In that connection, let me conclude by noting a great step forward in international relations: on the occasion of the fortieth anniversary of the Organization, speakers in this Hall stressed the concept of the balance of forces in general and of strategic nuclear parity in particular, while today, 10 years later, we all recognize that security and peace cannot exist without cooperation and solidarity, and in the absence of all violence. The United Nations has today reached a historic turning-point for at this session, we are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of its founding. I am convinced that this Assembly will benefit greatly from the President’s vast experience as a distinguished jurist. On behalf of my delegation, I would like to extend to Mr. Freitas do Amaral my sincere congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly for a session which will undoubtedly prove to be productive. We are deeply indebted to Mr. Amara Essy for the active and competent way in which he conducted the proceedings of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. It should indeed be noted that a number of problems and reforms had the benefit of particular attention under his presidency. We would also like to express our gratitude and our high regard to the Secretary-General for his enlightened and pragmatic leadership. Today, more than ever, the universality of the United Nations offers to many of us the possibility of having our voices heard throughout the world. We would also congratulate the Secretary-General on his efforts to preserve and strengthen the role of the United Nations in its work for peace, collective security and development. The situation in the world today, marked as it is by a multiplicity of hotbeds of tension, demonstrates to us — if that were necessary — the paramount role of the United Nations. This is naturally a subject for reflection 22 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting and of course a useful matter for us to ponder when we analyse our compliance with the Charter and the ideals set forth in it as we now stand on the threshold of an era which, without any doubt, will prove vital for mankind. Today, indeed, we are living in a different world — a world which the end of the cold war has stripped of the structures and priorities that were familiar to it. New crises, difficult to understand and to which we must today find appropriate responses, have arisen in all parts of the world. Neither States nor even regions can deal with them effectively and individually. The explosion of ethnic identities, too long suppressed, and the breaking up of States, have posed formidable challenges to the international community, thus threatening international peace and security. The crises that are ravaging the world today are not as specific as those of the cold-war era. Since they fall outside the focus of interest of the great Powers, the responsibility for action falls on the United Nations. However, the absence of clear-cut mandates, plus the inadequacy of resources, is partially responsible for the performance of the United Nations in its new role as guarantor of peace. In the light of these circumstances, it is no surprise that early intervention is often late in coming. But when the United Nations does possess the necessary resources and support, it can achieve commendable results. The persistence of social and economic crises, the collapse of Governments and structures underlie this outbreak of civil conflicts in the world. It is clear that it is not enough simply to separate the combatants and stop the fighting in order to eliminate the multidimensional causes of these conflicts. Until these causes are understood and combated from the very outset of the crisis, we will never be in a position to combat the flagrant acts of violence against civilian populations. Until we are ready to offer firm resistance to injustice, to acts of aggression, to continuing violations of human rights and peoples, we will be doomed to watching history repeat itself over and over again. Recent experiences of the United Nations have demonstrated this, but none of them is more revealing than the history of Bosnia. Nothing has contributed as much as Bosnia to engendering a feeling of outrage within the international community. Although numerous resolutions of the Security Council reaffirming the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia, confirming the inadmissibility of the annexation of territory by force and condemning “ethnic cleansing” have been adopted, the reaction of the international community to the challenge posed by the Serbs has always been hesitant and confused. The cost of this war in terms of loss of human life, hardship and material destruction is frightening. Serb bombings have turned the designated “safe areas” into vast prisons. Sarajevo has suffered by far the most from Serb strangulation. However, the fall of the “safe areas” of Srebrenica and Zepa marked a turning-point in the attitude of the great Powers in this long and bloody conflict. These acts of genocide undoubtedly constitute one of the greatest humiliations for the international community since the Second World War. The combined effects of bombings and diplomacy seem to have negated Serb domination on the ground at the same time as it has promoted prospects for peace. Furthermore, United Nations personnel and humanitarian convoys are no longer exposed to Serb attacks thanks to the recent resolve shown by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. For the time being, aggression is not paying off and the Serbs seem to have partially renounced their traditional tactic of murdering civilians with impunity. Over all, developments in the situation have dealt a new hand and breathed new life into the peace process. We welcome this new attitude, but peace must be both durable and honourable for all people. Bosnia, as a sovereign State, must be protected. Similarly, Sarajevo must be preserved as a multiracial and multicultural city. The handshake between President Arafat and Prime Minister Rabin in September 1993 was a source of great hope and we can but rejoice further at recent events. The second phase of negotiations led to the signing in Washington of the Taba Accord on 28 September 1995. We can only welcome that outcome. We encourage the two parties to persevere in their efforts to expedite the implementation of these agreements. They must strive to contain the violence of extremists and to take all necessary measures to strengthen mutual trust, which will, undoubtedly, contribute to lasting peace. The mutual recognition of Israel and of the PLO has opened up a tremendous opportunity to strengthen peace and development in the Middle East, as well as trading and economic potential for the entire region. These are the stakes and neither of the parties, neither the Palestinians nor the Israelis, should underestimate the importance of this new perspective. Sometimes there are mixed feelings about United Nations efforts around the world to contain hostilities and settle disputes. The United Nations has effectively been 23 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting paralysed and hamstrung by the lack of resources and the absence of any precise mandate during the crisis in Rwanda. The establishment of the International Tribunal, for Rwanda which is responsible for trying and prosecuting the persons guilty of genocide has also been delayed. Serious political dialogue can be broached, because it would be hard to deny that those who promoted, encouraged or committed crimes must be taken to court. Furthermore, the whole issue of the reconciliation and reconstruction of the country has failed because of persistent internal tension and delays in the deployment of international aid. An enormous task still lies ahead, not just in terms of the repatriation of refugees but also of the reconstruction of destroyed infrastructures, including housing, schools and medical facilities. In many respects, there are great similarities between the situation in Burundi and that in Rwanda. To date, all-out civil war has been avoided but the situation remains extremely volatile. The region as a whole is in need of true reconciliation. We welcome the efforts of the Secretary- General, who is trying, through constant contact, dialogue and visits to the area, to resolve these complex problems. His recent decision to appoint an experienced diplomat to organize a national conference to promote reconciliation and mutual understanding among the countries of the region is a wise decision. After almost two decades of fratricidal and destructive warfare, Mozambique is today ready to begin the work of national reconstruction following the peace process. We should congratulate all the parties that have taken part in the political transformation of Mozambique on having adhered to the peace process. Mozambique, with its tremendous potential for economic recovery and development, has a great future ahead, which it should turn to full advantage. This is a country for which the international community has every reason to congratulate itself for having given it timely support and substantial resources to back the peace process. In Haiti, the refusal of the army to comply with the peace agreement and its intransigence in spite of the condemnation of the international community left the United Nations with no alternative but to take resolute action, beginning with economic sanctions, and then international intervention. This made it possible for the United Nations to deploy a peace-keeping mission there. With the return of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, political violence and human rights violations have been greatly reduced. There is now a basis for ensuring the security of the population, guaranteeing increased political participation and consolidating democracy. The untiring efforts in the long and difficult negotiations in Lusaka to restore peace in Angola finally led to an agreement on a general cease-fire and the establishment of a government. The United Nations played a prominent role in these negotiations with the full support of three observer States. Much remains to be done, but progress has been steady and positive. The future of Angola will depend on the political will and determination of its leaders to forge a new vision, a new nation. In Liberia, the determination of the United Nations and of the countries of the region has made it possible finally to conclude an agreement between the parties. Hostilities are nearing an end, and a cease-fire is to be negotiated. This agreement, concluded just a month ago, does not mean that our troubles are over, but we can see the light at the end of the tunnel. The Liberian people seem determined to put a final end to this long and destructive war, and it is the duty of the international community to contribute to this long-awaited outcome the necessary resources and substantial support. Last year, we witnessed the end of United Nations operations in Somalia, when it became clear that the determination of the various Somali parties to reach a compromise in the interests of the people of Somalia was visibly lacking. Somalia has fallen into oblivion. It is suffering from total political paralysis. Once again, it is the same old story: warfare among factions. The country must be helped to get off to a new start in order to create better prospects for peace and stability. We must recall that the prospect of a new civil war is more likely than ever. The spectre of famine is looming on the horizon. And the personnel of international aid organizations faces a difficult choice: to accept a state of increasing insecurity or to abandon the country to chaos. We want to hope that, no matter how complex and desperate the political situation in Somalia, the international community will not abandon that country and will continue to provide the necessary support to the Somalis, in particular in the realm of humanitarian assistance. We hope, moreover, that our brothers in Somalia will find the path to wisdom and engage in constructive negotiations to put an end to the suffering of the Somali people. 24 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting My country, the Republic of Djibouti, continues to face difficulties in our economic development that are exacerbated by the presence of refugees and displaced persons, which make up more than 25 per cent of our population. The pressure thus placed on our infrastructures, our medical services, our housing sector and on education and employment is more than we are able to deal with. The cumulative effects of the civil wars that have raged in recent years, both in our country and in neighbouring countries, and of natural disasters — drought as well as floods — have seriously hindered our efforts in the area of development. A new era of peace and political stability has begun in my country, which regained its reputation as an oasis of peace after the signing of the peace agreement of December 1994 and the formation in June 1995 of a new Government that reflected the new situation. Once peace had been achieved, and without any transition, we began the difficult process of redressing our country’s finances and economy, which had been seriously affected by the consequences of three years of internal conflict and the negative world economic situation. The first phase of a vast restructuring programme, proposed by the Government and approved by the Parliament, has just been launched through the implementation of various measures involving severe budgetary restrictions. In addition to these measures, we are currently negotiating with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank for the means to carry out a structural adjustment programme. Furthermore, in accordance with the resolutions of the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development, we wish to preserve our social achievements, without which no lasting development can be envisaged. On the regional level, Djibouti is still working towards the establishment of a climate of cooperation in all areas. The member countries of the Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD) and of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) have great potential and resources, and IGADD and COMESA are the best instruments for harmonization and coordination to maximize the exploitation of these resources. On the international scene, Djibouti has discharged productively and responsibly its current term in the Security Council, and thanks all the countries that have supported it. Our participation in peace-keeping operations, particularly in Rwanda and Haiti, where Djibouti’s police and armed forces are currently serving, is one of the best proofs of this. Together with its neighbours, Djibouti hopes to be in a position to struggle against, and overcome, the consequences of instability and conflicts in our region. We share the Secretary-General’s view that the work of the United Nations is frequently misunderstood. The development crisis is often overlooked because of the priority given the short-term alleviation of emergency situations. But development is no less urgent — quite to the contrary — because today development is a global issue, and peace, the economy, the environment, social justice and democracy are its various aspects. The pressures created by poverty, unemployment and social disintegration are no longer contained within individual frontiers; they affect our entire “global village”, moving from country to country and from region to region. Only consistent growth and lasting development will be able to halt them. But, clearly, no country, no region can alone successfully face these problems. Even the best- performing economies will face high unemployment if world economic growth is not sufficient to absorb their production. If we restrict ourselves to promoting growth in some sectors to the exclusion of others, the result of the growth will be unimpressive. But it is most surprising that despite the fact that world economic growth yields sufficient resources to easily eliminate extreme poverty from the face of the Earth, poverty not only persists but continues to increase. The world has a great need of an engine for growth worldwide, a role played by the United States immediately after the Second World War, when it broadened world markets. But we can no longer hope that a single country will take on this function. Likewise, outdated international economic policies and institutions are standing in the way of investments, the creation of development programmes and the markets necessary to increase demand in the third-world countries and consequently stimulate economic growth. Aside from this global reality, the difficulties faced by sub-Saharan Africa are sui generis. The Secretary- General himself recently called the economic results in Africa disappointing, even in the countries that are engaged in-depth reforms. Thirty-three of the 48 least- developed countries in the world are in Africa. There are many results of this state of affairs and they are well known. The recent onslaught of ethnic conflicts and civil wars has greatly contributed to instability, to the many 25 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting faces of poverty and to the underdevelopment of that region. These conflicts have forced millions of people to seek refuge in other countries or to become displaced persons. The situation is particularly tragic for women and children. If Africa is to have a serious chance to develop, the crushing burden of foreign debt must be alleviated. The long-term debt of the African continent, amounting to $37 billion, constitutes about one-half of the debt owed by all the countries of the “third world”. Very few of those countries are in a position to repay their debt. However, for Africa at least to come close to the objective of 6 per cent of annual growth in its gross domestic product, as envisaged by the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, would require substantial external assistance. Even those among us who, in Africa, have opted for free markets and healthy currencies, view privatization and balanced budgets with scepticism. This situation, exacerbated by the shocks created by structural adjustment programmes and political reform, is continuing to intensify internal pressures and social tensions. It is important to maintain aid levels during this transitional period because this will contribute to stabilizing the economic conditions that would permit the emergence of political and social conditions propitious to free institutions. Without such assistance, our fragile economies are threatened with collapse before they can even attempt to carry out their reforms. Yet, the fact is that for the majority of African countries now engaged in this effort, the flow of capital and assistance in all forms is beginning to dry up. As the President of the General Assembly has rightly said, the world is passing through a transitional period that is still “vague, confused and imprecise” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 1st meeting, p. 6). The effort to identify, to understand, to assign priorities and to try to remedy problems whose dimensions have profoundly changed has just begun. It is revealing, indeed, that in his statement the President told the General Assembly that the new international order that is to be built must not leave out the United Nations, either by replacing it or by doing away entirely with it. For the United Nations represents a concept of work, an expression of the idea whereby all mankind should unite its strength to solve problems and improve its conditions of life. To replace, weaken or marginalize the United Nations would constitute an assault on this concept. The United Nations, that is, mankind working together, should be the central mechanism through which the world can achieve lasting growth and to lend credibility and legitimacy to our efforts. Peace and security remain important questions, but development and economic and social problems are just as vital. The structure of the United Nations should reflect the realities and present problems as they really exist in order to tackle them in an effective, professional way. Djibouti favours the constant monitoring of United Nations operations in order to define means and methods to eliminate all waste and reduce unnecessary costs. However, the improvement of the functioning and the structure of the United Nations will prove of limited use if the Organization does not have the resources it needs to operate. The time has perhaps come to envisage new methods for financing the United Nations. In addition, in the realm of collective security there is a vital need to enlarge the Security Council, while respecting the principle of equitable geographical representation, and to make it more democratic and more transparent. The structure and functions of the Council should be periodically reviewed as the international situation evolves. In conclusion, we are the United Nations, and the United Nations is us. Together we can achieve great things. On behalf of the Government and the people of Jamaica, I congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. As a distinguished representative of Portugal, we are assured that he will be able to bring his undoubted skills to the affairs of this body at this important juncture in the life of the United Nations. Allow me also to express my appreciation to his distinguished predecessor, Foreign Minister Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for his very valuable contribution to the work of the forty-ninth session. I also wish to take this opportunity to extend a welcome to the Republic of Palau, which was admitted to the United Nations on 15 December 1994. Let me, on behalf of the Government and the people of Jamaica, express our sympathy to the peoples of our sister countries in the Caribbean who recently experienced the ravages of devastating hurricanes. Most of these small islands suffered extensive damage to infrastructure and to their agriculture and tourism industries. Their task of reconstruction will require immediate assistance and support from the international community. I appeal to all gathered here to provide the required support to these Caribbean partners. Our general debate this year coincides with the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. This historic occasion affords us the opportunity to reflect on the work and value of the Organization and to chart the way forward into the twenty-first century. The establishment of the United Nations 50 years ago irrevocably changed the course of world history. With its founding, a new framework for international relations was created. Throughout the last five decades, the world body, buffeted as it has been by the vagaries of an unpredictable and often tense international environment, has achieved remarkable successes in a wide variety of fields, and in many ways and for many millions of people around the world it remains the greatest repository of hope, and the only viable option for ensuring international peace, security and development. Today we still inhabit an imperfect world where poverty, social and economic inequality between and within States, hunger, disease and environmental degradation remain critical issues. Global solutions must be found to what are inevitably global problems. At last we all now agree that the major problems confronting our world are transnational in nature. Addressing these challenges is a daunting task. However, whereas less than a decade ago the cold-war ideological divide hindered our ability to address them, today we are in a much more favourable position to do so. Today there is greater willingness and capacity to make common cause on a number of issues. The priority task of our time is to eliminate the fundamental causes of instability and conflict in the global community, a situation rooted in the social and economic conditions affecting the greater part of mankind. As we move into the next century, our commitment to achieving development in all its aspects must be our priority objective. In this regard, Jamaica continues to attach great importance to the work of the United Nations in advancing the Agenda for Development. We believe it provides the rudiments for constructing a sustained development strategy. It is our hope that this historic session of the General Assembly will recognize the importance of the Agenda and give the mandate for its implementation. The Secretary-General has outlined five dimensions which provide the foundation for action to achieve sustainable development. These are: peace, the economy, environmental protection, social justice and democracy. It is important that we accept these concepts as mutually reinforcing and interdependent. Development is not possible in the absence of peace and stability. Conversely, the absence of broad-based development and the lack of opportunity to participate in the benefits of material progress constitute a threat to peace and stability. Economic growth is necessary for development. As the Secretary-General points out in his report, “New development approaches should not only generate economic growth, they should make its benefits equitably available. They should enable people to participate in decisions affecting their lives.” (A/49/665, para. 5) For sustainable development to be maintained it must be people-oriented in its objective, scope and focus. It needs an environment that gives priority to the promotion of social well-being, integration and advancement; an environment where there is emphasis on the eradication of poverty, on the enhancement of health and education and on productive employment for all. That is why it is vital that we honour the commitments agreed at major international conferences and integrate them into a common framework for development. The declarations and work programmes of conferences, beginning with the World Summit for Children in 1990, up to and including the recent Fourth World Conference on Women, provide the basis for forging a global consensus on new approaches to social and economic development. The United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), to be held next year, will further add to the global consensus. It is in this context that I refer specifically to the World Summit for Social Development, one of the two major global conferences held this year. That Summit provided a forum for discussion and commitment to action on issues of poverty, unemployment and social disintegration. In Copenhagen world leaders recognized the central and pervasive theme of poverty and its impediment to social integration. The Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action contain universal commitments: a commitment to create a national and international environment conducive to the eradication of poverty; a commitment to enhance productive employment; a commitment to promote social development and foster social integration. All these actions would be taken in a framework of sustainable economic growth and development. Not only does the Declaration and Programme of Action contain commitments to accelerate economic, social and human resource development: it also specifically sets targets for addressing the seemingly intractable problems facing developing countries. The critical issue is one of resources. It is a daunting challenge. As part of national policy and consistent with the content of the Declaration and Programme of Action, Jamaica has already committed itself to the alleviation of poverty as a matter of priority. Permit me to refer to the other important conference held this year, the Fourth World Conference on Women, which was recently concluded in Beijing. Out of that Conference emanated a comprehensive Platform for Action aimed at fostering greater empowerment of women and bringing them fully into the development process. 2 We recognize that Governments have the main responsibility for undertaking the commitments agreed at these conferences. However, to achieve these goals national efforts must be complemented by effective international cooperation. We therefore join others in urging the international community to collectively fulfil the commitments by channelling substantial new and additional financial and technical resources to developing countries. It is this mobilization of adequate financial resources for development purposes that will determine whether the poorest countries in the world remain excluded from the progress enjoyed by others. The positive trends in world economic growth cannot mask the dichotomy which persists in the international economy. The efforts by developing countries to implement sound macroeconomic policies and structural adjustment programmes continue to be affected by adverse external economic conditions characterized by protectionism in goods-and-service trade, continuing decline in official development assistance (ODA), volatile financial flows and exchange-rate instability, and constraints in access to technology. All this is convincing evidence that in the increasingly globalized environment it is imperative that we give greater weight to the whole process of coordination of international economic policy. Institutions such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank should further improve their processes to take into account the critical needs and peculiar circumstances of developing countries. This process could be improved further through better consultations between the Group of 77, the Group of 15 and the Group of 7. Many developing countries have at great cost undertaken reforms in policy and regulatory framework resulting in the creation of a private-sector-led, market- driven economy. These efforts will be rendered meaningless without the existence of a favourable international economic environment. In its absence, efforts to build self-sustaining economies will be frustrated. With the completion of the Uruguay Round and the establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO) the stage is set for a more open multilateral trading system. In confronting this new and complex trade regime developing countries require production and marketing assistance to gain the potential benefits from the new market opportunities. It is therefore crucial that a degree of flexibility be given to developing countries to enhance our full participation in the multilateral trading system. Recent developments and institutional changes, including the establishment of the World Trade Organization, reinforce the need for institutions such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development as a policy-oriented trade forum with a strong development perspective. We should not fail to reflect on the valuable role that has been played by UNCTAD, as well as by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. Every effort should be made to preserve those organizations. They were designed to serve the development objectives of the developing countries. They are not above change. They have shown their capacity to adapt to the new environment and to develop concepts and programmes relevant to the present needs of the developing countries. We are therefore opposed to any attempt to undermine the contributions of those bodies to the development objectives within the international system. In our own region steps are being taken to improve the conditions that will foster proper trading relations among our countries, thereby enhancing the productivity of our economies. The Convention establishing the Association of Caribbean States has now entered into force. The new grouping of 25 States plus associate members represents a strong and viable economic base from which to seize the opportunities offered by the new international economic environment. In this regard we continue to assert the need for the inclusion of all countries in the region in the integration process. To this end, we reiterate our concern at attempts further to complicate regional-trading arrangements through national legislation that has an overwhelming extra-territorial character. If I have devoted a substantial portion of my statement to issues of development and international economic and trade policy, it is because Jamaica would like to emphasize the fundamental importance of economic and social development to the attainment of peace and security. We welcome the fact that the Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development has rightly been acknowledged as an essential complement to “An Agenda for Peace”. We remain committed to a continuing role for the United Nations in the area of peace-keeping. 3 The current regional and civil conflicts being waged against the backdrop of ethnic and religious antagonism demand that greater emphasis be placed on preventive diplomacy in order to diffuse tensions before they escalate into the violence and bloodshed that we have witnessed in the Balkans and in Central Africa. We must design mechanisms to deal with problems in their early stages and thus prevent the situation whereby the international community finds itself expending more and more resources to deal with an ever-worsening situation. In this regard, urgent action to achieve a rapid-deployment capability should be considered. In Bosnia and Herzegovina the world has been witness to the tragedy of the forcible dismantling of a multi-ethnic and multireligious society. The situation has been a difficult one for the United Nations. It is vital that all efforts be made to bring an end to the fighting, and we hope that the most recent attempts to reach a negotiated settlement will lead to a lasting and comprehensive solution. I wish at this point to express on behalf of the Government of Jamaica our profound regret at the almost- daily loss of life. Our sympathies go to the families of United Nations peace- keepers as well as to the families of the three American diplomats who were engaged in brokering a settlement to the conflict. We are no less concerned and distressed by the situation in Rwanda and Burundi. We continue to urge the factions to pursue national reconciliation leading towards the economic rehabilitation and reconstruction of their countries. In our own region, we can be justifiably proud of the role of the United Nations in restoring the democratically elected President of Haiti, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, to the leadership of his nation. This was a critical element in the complex diplomatic effort to achieve a solution to the crisis in our sister country. Jamaica joined other countries in the Caribbean Community in contributing to the multinational force in Haiti and subsequently to the United Nations Mission in Haiti. The people of Haiti are now on the path to building democracy. Haiti’s success in its efforts to rebuild the economy of the country depends in no small measure on the continued attention of the entire international community. The success of the United Nations in Haiti leads us to reflect on the often-overlooked achievements of the Organization in providing much-needed humanitarian assistance in situations of conflict. There are a number of outstanding political issues on the Assembly’s agenda that require resolution, among them the situation in the Middle East. We welcome the efforts of the parties to continue the peace process in a spirit of reconciliation in order to achieve a comprehensive, just and lasting peace. We hope that the same spirit of reconciliation will prevail in negotiations to resolve other long-outstanding issues, including that of the situation in Cyprus. I wish to refer to a matter which we consider one of global concern. Four months ago, the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) concluded with a majority of States agreeing that the Treaty should be extended indefinitely. Like other non-nuclear-weapon States, we supported the indefinite extension on the basis of the declared intention of nuclear Powers to exercise restraint in relation to vertical proliferation and nuclear disarmament. In this sense, we view with great disappointment and as a serious blow to the non- proliferation regime the recent decisions by some nuclear- weapon States to resume nuclear testing. Jamaica is opposed to the proliferation of weapons and wishes to reiterate the need for the completion of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. In the meantime, we urge nuclear- weapon States to respect the moratorium on nuclear testing. The progressive development of international law has been a fundamental objective of the United Nations. The entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the inauguration of the International Seabed Authority in Kingston, Jamaica, in November last year, represent a major achievement in the creation of a legal order for the management of the seas and oceans as the common heritage of mankind. We urge universal acceptance of the Convention. Jamaica being the host of the Seabed Authority, I can assure the Assembly of its steadfast commitment to provide the enabling environment to ensure that the objectives of the Convention are met. The establishment of the International Seabed Authority represents the commitment of States parties to have this new international regime operational in the shortest possible time. We are all very disappointed that the first session was concluded without the requisite administrative arrangements in place for commencement of the substantive work of the Authority. I take this important occasion to urge that States parties address the 4 outstanding issues with the same commitment that was evident in securing the acceptance of the Convention. We believe the United Nations is now positioned to achieve the objectives of the Charter and to play an active, dynamic and catalytic role in maintaining international peace and security and promoting economic cooperation. Now, more than ever before, there is a real possibility for us to take decisive and universal action to fulfil the purposes for which the Organization was created. We must take advantage of this opportunity. We are conscious of heightened expectations. For these reasons, the restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations system must be vigorously pursued. We are confident that a reformed and strengthened Organization will be able to undertake the twin tasks of promoting peace and assisting the development process of all members of the international community. In the Secretary-General’s annual report to the General Assembly this year, he has emphasized, in the context of reforming the United Nations, that “A crucial component of that larger reform process should be the achievement of a more dynamic relationship among the main intergovernmental organs — the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council.” (A/50/1, para. 20) This is a point of view which I share. Jamaica firmly believes that the General Assembly should be allowed to fulfil its role as the Organization’s highest deliberative and decision-making body. We also believe that the role of the Economic and Social Council should be strengthened. It is relevant also to underscore the fact that the United Nations was conceived in an entirely different era. Today, with all the changes which have taken place in the past 50 years, it is indefensible that the same five permanent members of the Security Council can exercise the same control as they did when they assumed that right after the Second World War. For this and other valid reasons, Jamaica supports the call for the expansion of the Security Council, including its permanent membership, on an equitable geographical basis. Numerous initiatives have been undertaken by Member States, independent groups and individuals on ways to improve the functioning of the Organization. It is now time for the seminal ideas generated by these initiatives to be distilled into a comprehensive framework for designing the new structure of the United Nations. In this regard, Jamaica will participate fully in the High-level Open- ended Working Group of the General Assembly, recently established to undertake a thorough review of the studies and reports relating to the revitalization and reform of the United Nations. The agenda for this fiftieth session is indeed a challenging one. Our goal is to ensure that the Organization is well placed to discharge its responsibilities effectively. There is enough evidence of a disposition to do this, and this gives us hope. As custodians of the future, let us therefore strive to make this a more peaceful, just and prosperous world. As I address the General Assembly on behalf of the Gabonese Republic, I wish first of all to discharge the duty of sincerely congratulating you, Sir, on behalf of my delegation and on my own account, on your unanimous election to the presidency of the fiftieth session. The Assembly’s choice reflects the appreciation of all States Members of the United Nations for the contribution of your country, Portugal, to the quest for solutions to the problems besetting the world. Your election highlights your talents as a diplomat and statesman and your wide experience. It gives me pleasure also to express our gratitude and admiration to your predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire. The Gabonese Republic hails that fine diplomat and thanks him for the dedication and readiness to act he placed in the service of the world Organization at the forty-ninth 12 session; his work was a source of pride for the entire African continent. I cannot fail to mention the Gabonese Republic’s staunch support for the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in his tireless efforts in the service of peace, security and development. I wish now to say a few words about the unique nature of this session, during which the Assembly will convene in special meetings to mark the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization. At those special meetings, Heads of State or Government will have an opportunity to assess the impact of some of the action we have taken pursuant to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. True, those purposes have not been completely fulfilled, but in all fairness we must acknowledge that there has been considerable progress, especially on respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and peace, without which nothing is possible. Yet development remains a major concern, despite the efforts that have been devoted to it. Every nation represented here is a reflection of mankind, whose common values the founders of the United Nations evoked. Among those values I would highlight those of greatest concern at the end of the twentieth century: peace, freedom and development. Gabon’s dedication to the ideal of peace is a constant element in its foreign policy and its diplomacy. The inclusion of that ideal in the Charter was most appealing to the leadership of Gabon and eased our accession to membership of the United Nations, on 20 September 1960. Hence, as a Member of the United Nations we took our proper place alongside other nations, in the harmony of our respective differences. I wish to pay tribute to the founders of non-alignment, who were the first to reflect in deeds, through the doctrine of peaceful coexistence, the principles enshrined in the San Francisco Charter. Twenty-five years later, the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly confirm that interpretation. We are duty-bound to go back to the source in order to respond to the need — the urgent need — for new, creative thinking in favour of peace. It is an honour and a duty to recall that Gabon’s experience in the settlement of conflicts has its living roots deep in Bantu civilization. Our view of solidarity among peoples gives a role to Gabon’s commitment to cooperate with all States Members of the United Nations whatever their ideology or the nature of their political regime. This promotes the virtues of dialogue and tolerance among peoples and nations, virtues we practice in our homes and within our families, virtues that, through the international action of President Omar Bongo, the Gabonese Republic has built into a principle of our diplomatic and political culture. Our idea of peace, then, is primarily functional in nature. It reminds us every day that the state of peace among nations is a continuous process, one which requires at all times vigilance, courage and consistency in our efforts. Gabon can state with pride that it is dedicated to the peaceful conduct of its relations with all the components of the international community. “We are judged by our actions”, a great thinker quite rightly observed. Those actions that we have been able to inscribe in the registry of peace, both bilaterally and multilaterally, follow the path traced by the Charter of the United Nations. They illustrate, first of all, our unswerving loyalty to the Organization, which makes us automatically involved in all the missions and all the actions it has undertaken anywhere in the world where peace has been threatened or might be threatened. The efforts made quite recently by the international community to heal the open wounds in Rwanda have had our full support. The efforts made by the same international community in Angola have often been supplemented by our direct or indirect involvement. It goes without saying that with regard to these situations my country appeals to the community of nations to continue its multifaceted assistance for the reintegration and rebuilding of those two countries. This appeal is addressed also to all the other areas of tension in Africa and in the rest of the world. These actions are also illustrated by our appreciation of and satisfaction with the progress achieved in the quest for peace in the Middle East with the signing of the Taba Agreement in Washington; and in Central Europe as a result of the new atmosphere brought about by discussions that made it possible for all the parties involved in the situation in the former Yugoslavia to meet together in New York. In our view, all these factors bear witness to the fact that the international community is prepared to attenuate as much as possible the anguish caused our peoples by the risks of war in the world. Nevertheless, every one of us would readily agree that real threats to peace in international relations still 13 exist today. The outline of a new world order is still hard for us to grasp; it shows us the paradoxical picture of a fragile peace. Yet our expectations of the establishment of this new world order are not fruitless. For the time being, Gabon gives due value to the dynamics which led, at the global and regional levels, to the creation of the mechanisms designed to prevent conflicts. While peace has the virtue of making us feel safer, freedom can open up prospects for individual and collective development. In the view of the founders of the United Nations, freedom is a decisive element for the establishment of an environment and an overall spiritual framework allowing for the emergence of social progress and the establishment of better living conditions. Those who signed the Charter received a mandate, as it were, to create the conditions for this, to the benefit of the people in their care. The results of this commitment to implement the principle of the right of peoples to self-determination and the principle of respect for human rights are known to all, just as we all know of, and regard highly, the actions taken by our Organization to inspire, to support and even to initiate policies undertaken in these fields. In this context, any policy contrary to this which calls these achievements into question will give rise to the reactions necessary to preserve the balance between States and to restore everyone’s rights. Therefore, our dedication to the principle of the inviolability of borders in Africa is a guarantee of our independence and our freedom, since it shows that we accept freedom for other States as well. My country’s experience in promoting and protecting basic political, cultural and social human rights in recent years has been outstanding. The establishment of a State based on the rule of law with a transition from a single- party system to a pluralist democracy has taken place smoothly. The results of this transition, and the promises born of this experience for democracy in our country, flowed from the fact that they dovetail with our cultural values, whose spiritual foundations favour the individual’s place in society, as the founder of and justification for our cities. In Gabon, dialogue is valid only for human beings since it is human beings who initiate it and carry it out for their own benefit. An example of this Gabonese practice of dialogue was the results achieved barely a year ago at the meeting held by representatives of the majority and opposition political parties in Paris in September and October 1994 to define together the ways and means for the consensual governance of our democracy that was then being threatened. These results will be reflected in the signing of the so-called Paris Agreements in the presence of international observers. Social conflicts and confrontations between opposing political forces can be overcome by rational discussions and tolerance of the opinions of others. We are truly convinced that coups d’état are not relevant in present times. That is why Gabon, through its President, Omar Bongo, firmly condemned the unfortunate events which occurred in Sao Tome and Principe, and more recently in the Comoros. Freedom, security and peace are in our view the very bases of our democracy. To be sure, this democracy is only taking its first steps, but it will undoubtedly enable the Gabonese people to reach a new stage in its history and its political life. Another dimension of the political and social problems in Africa and everywhere in the world is the status of women in society. In my country, women have the same rights as men. Our educational system ensures free access by all school-age children to instruction; that is in the interest of the entire Gabonese nation. In social terms, then, taking into account the recent concerns relating to the status of women and children, as illustrated in the World Summit for Children in New York in 1990, and the Beijing Conference in 1995, the Republic of Gabon has made choices that are in line with the spirit of the actions initiated by the United Nations. Once again, I would mention the founders of our Organization and praise their generosity of spirit in placing the happiness of peoples in the context of extending freedom. The solidarity advocated for States as the absolute prerequisite for defining ensuing strategies was designed to discourage them from any inclination of selfishness in the implementation of those strategies. Unfortunately, however, we must admit that this legacy has, instead, come to look more like “every man for himself”, a standard that has been set up as providing the ways and means to find happiness. The differences among nations have revealed the gaps between peoples the world over at the level of their development. However, in this sphere, the United Nations has tried to create a range of instruments and mechanisms designed to provide our Governments with the assistance they expect. Whatever the allegiance of the peoples represented 14 here, each and every one of us will acknowledge and appreciate, for example, the role of UNESCO in education, science and culture; of the World Health Organization on the basis of its contribution to the eradication of major endemic and pandemic diseases; or that of the United Nations Development Programme in carrying out development projects. Nevertheless, the overall verdict is still mixed. We believe that although our actions have allowed humanity to survive, they have not fully succeeded in improving the quality of life for most people. In both the South and the North, our world is still littered, not just with pockets but with vast tracts of poverty. All our States, small or large, are being eaten away, to various degrees, by the cancer of abject poverty. The United Nations recent decision to hold a world summit in Copenhagen devoted to social development was welcomed by Gabon, which was an active participant. President Bongo himself said that that Summit was the result of an in-depth analysis of the state of extreme poverty in which a large part of humanity was living today. Consequently, for our country, the programme of action drawn up at the end of the Summit — which, we are pleased to say, follows up the major guidelines already found in the United Nations programme of action for the establishment of a new international economic order, on the one hand, and the major principles of “An Agenda for Development”, on the other — should be translated into action, as hoped. We are all aware that, by the same token, this endeavour will require the mobilized contribution of all of the countries and bodies that constitute the international community. At the close of the twentieth century, Africa alone will have broken all records for underdevelopment. By way of example, it has three quarters of the least developed countries; it has the lowest level of growth; it is practically non-existent in international trade. Unfortunately, Africa is today a continent apart, despite its enormous potential. It, nevertheless, accepts the fact that responsibility for economic recovery is largely in its hands and that this task depends above all on its own efforts. But it is still obvious that the enormity of the crisis it is going through and the level of resources needed make international support for its efforts necessary. For Africa in general and for Gabon more particularly, a more appropriate approach to the debt burden would favour a solution to this issue, given the substantial inverse capital flows going to our creditors as a result of paying back our debt. Africa wishes to remind the world of its commitment to face its responsibilities with regard to debt and debt servicing. This was the position adopted by our Heads of State at the most recent Summit of the Organization of African Unity. Gabon supports this. However, it looks to the shrewdness of its creditors and in the understandable interest of all parties concerned in this issue, to help us obtain favourable treatment in conditions for repayment. Gabon effectively devotes more than half of its annual budget to debt repayment, thereby crippling its development efforts — this in spite of the fact that the machinery for debt reduction advocated in recent years has discriminated against us by excluding us from the list of beneficiaries. We suggest that the reason given, based on the high per capita gross national product, is unfair. This strange singling out of Gabon, which is still almost the only country in the so-called middle-income category in the southern Sahara, is not justified in reality. This situation places a burden on our economy and thereby affects our economic relations abroad. This appeal to the international community for fairer treatment of my country is not a case of begging — no more for Gabon than for the rest of Africa — because, as Omar Bongo stated at the Copenhagen summit: “Africa is not asking for charity”. In reality, helping our credibility and viability in economic and financial terms, actually strengthens the international trading system for the common good. This is not a matter of philanthropy but rather of common sense: helping the South means helping the North, and ultimately the entire world. At the end of this rapid reading before this Assembly, dealing with the themes of peace, freedom and development, my appeals to our Organization will be clear to all. It is expected to respond to the concerns I have just expressed. On the eve of the special meeting to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization, I hope that all of its Members will realize the enormous import of this opportunity, for the world is changing before our very 15 eyes. The countries represented here are also changing, at different rates. Obviously, I cannot accept the idea that the United Nations itself could fail to keep up with this trend. For this reason, the measures advocated along these lines by the Secretary-General of the United Nations could be supplemented by others that my country would like to see, from the point of view of restructuring, and therefore readapting the United Nations system to the realities of today’s world. The present context is conducive to this. An overall reform of the system is required, for the security of our peoples, and of the States that comprise it, and in the final analysis, in the interest of renewing the United Nations itself. I conclude my speech, therefore, on this note of hope. We are very pleased that Mr. Freitas do Amaral is presiding over this important occasion, not only because of our confidence in his sterling qualities and acknowledged capabilities, but also because of the long historic links between Portugal and Ghana — links going back 500 years. We wish him every success in conducting the affairs of this fiftieth session of the General Assembly. To his predecessor, my brother and colleague from Côte d’Ivoire, we say “thank you” for a job well done. He led us through very complicated and difficult issues, such as the restructuring and reform of the United Nations, particularly the enlargement of the Security Council. The patience, equanimity and skill which he displayed throughout his presidency won the admiration of us all. To Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, we say a special word of thanks and appreciation for his indefatigable energy, his remarkable commitment to the independence of the United Nations and his steadfast resolve to help carry the Organization forward on a sounder footing. Fifty years of life, be it of a person or an institution, is an appropriate occasion for celebration and we are all looking forward to the festivities planned for the latter part of this month in commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. It must also, however, be an occasion for a sober assessment of success and progress attained, as well as an in-depth analysis of the shortcomings experienced and how best to overcome them. In 1945, 51 States, by signing the United Nations Charter and setting up the Organization, ushered in a new era in international affairs. I recall that only four African countries were Members of the United Nations at its inception. Today, the United Nations comprises 185 Member States, of which, perhaps, Africa is the continent with the largest representation. The very fact that the United Nations has grown in the past 50 years to encompass in its membership almost all sovereign States of the international community indicates a positive development. This is important because of the growing interdependence of States and the common interest of the international community in the solution of the complex and myriad issues of contemporary life. To those who criticize the United Nations and the General Assembly in particular as a mere talking shop, I would say that the tradition of discussion and debate, of listening to and appreciating the views of others is of great value. This is precisely the rationale for setting up this forum. It is only through such a process that diverse views can be harmonized and compromises struck. But even the sceptic will admit that the United Nations has an appreciable record of humanitarian and social improvement throughout the globe, in decolonization and in the settlement of disputes and conflicts. Our hope that the end of the cold war would bring in its train a new era of enduring peace and international harmony has been rudely dispelled. Much has indeed changed but much remains the same. The perennial conflicts of the past are taking new and troubling dimensions with “ethnic cleansing”, genocide and strident forms of nationalism threatening international tranquillity. This fiftieth anniversary is the appropriate occasion for all States to ponder carefully how these problems can be effectively contained. We are encouraged by recent events to hope that the ugly conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina can and will be solved, and we must pay tribute to the United States for this development. We also note with appreciation the recent Israeli- Palestinian accords signed in Washington as another milestone in the progress towards genuine peace in the Middle East. We would, however, urge all parties to show more flexibility and understanding in ensuring a comprehensive solution to the Middle East problem, which, inter alia, would include full self-determination for the Palestinian people and the restoration of occupied Arab lands. No conflict can be resolved without the willingness of the parties to be reasonable and ready for compromise. 13 The Afghans, the Somalis and others stand in danger of neglect and they must wake up to this reality. The leaders of the warring parties in these countries must appreciate the enormous responsibility on their shoulders not to condemn their compatriots to senseless slaughter in perpetuity. The developing countries generally find themselves in difficult economic circumstances as a result of an unfavourable international economic climate. The need for concerted international action to restructure the international economy in order to meet the challenges of absolute poverty, malnutrition, disease and illiteracy, among others, in the developing countries cannot be overemphasized. In this context, we appreciate the limited success of the important global conferences of the past year, especially that on population and development in Cairo, the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen and, last but not least, the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. The very fact that the international community has been able to improve and agree on a set of guidelines for future action in each of these vitally important social areas is in itself a remarkable achievement. We trust that the necessary political will to implement what has been agreed upon will be exercised by all. Allow me to say a few words about last April’s review and extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). We note with regret that, so soon after the indefinite extension of the NPT, the very fears which made some of us question the wisdom of an indefinite extension have been fulfilled by the resumption of nuclear testing in the Pacific. We had argued that an indefinite extension would leave the nuclear Powers with no real incentive to make further progress on the arms control agenda. We must condemn in no uncertain terms the breach of the underlying implications of the consensus reached on the indefinite extension of the NPT. Let us hope that lessons will be learned from the almost universal condemnation of the French tests and that there will be movement towards a rapid conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty and action on the other major issues in the area of disarmament. United Nations peace-keeping continues to assume great prominence in the range of United Nations activities. This has been in clear response to urgent needs in various parts of the world, and we in Ghana continue to try to make a modest contribution through participation in such missions as that in Rwanda. We are pleased to note that a lot of thinking is going on about how to improve and strengthen the United Nations peace-keeping role. We will continue to take an active part in these discussions and we hope it will be possible to agree on new arrangements that will be to the benefit of us all. Allow me, on this issue, to express my delegation’s profound regret at the delay of the United Nations in reimbursing troop- contributing countries, such as mine, for expenditures incurred in United Nations peace-keeping operations. We urge that every effort be made to resolve this matter as speedily as possible. Of course, it will help greatly if Member States in arrears in their contributions honour their obligations and pay up. We urge them to do so without further delay. While on the subject of peace-keeping, may I say a few words about what we in West Africa have tried to do in Liberia. In the spirit of the relevant provisions of the United Nations Charter and the Treaty setting up the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), ECOWAS countries took the initiative to set up the cease-fire Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) to stop the bloodshed in Liberia. Today we are pleased to see that the Abuja and earlier agreements have made possible the restoration of relative peace in that country. The challenge now is to see through the implementation process. That will require a considerable increase in troop strength, logistics for ECOMOG and for the encampment, disarmament and resettlement of rival forces engaged in the civil war. International assistance is greatly needed to meet these objectives. It is hoped that a ready response will be forthcoming at the pledging conference envisaged for later this month. What ECOMOG has done in Liberia is a good example of how subregional and regional organizations should support the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security. But the United Nations will need to overcome doctrinal obstacles and to develop principles that will facilitate hybrid operations involving subregional initiatives and United Nations financing in whole or in part. On Rwanda, Ghana has again demonstrated the depth of its commitment to the maintenance of international peace and security by sending troops to the front line. Our actions speak louder than words. Liberia and Rwanda are the latest in a long history of Ghanaian participation in peace-keeping operations. We will continue to make a contribution whenever and wherever we are called upon to assist. That is why Ghana sponsored the preparation of the Anglo-French glossary of peace-keeping terms, which provides precise terminology for vital words regularly used in the actual theatre of 14 operations. Our gratitude goes to the British, French and Senegalese Governments, who all helped make the exercise a success. Africa’s economic problems are too well known for me to recount. Allow me to state that some of us are beginning to wonder about the seriousness of the international community in helping Africa help itself. Conference after conference and seminar after seminar have been held in the past few years on this issue. Study after study by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank and numerous other institutions and distinguished personalities have been published, dissecting every dimension of the continent’s problems. African countries have committed themselves repeatedly to carry out far-reaching economic and institutional reforms, on the express understanding that their efforts would be fully complemented by the requisite material support of the international community, particularly the advanced countries. While not down-playing the assistance Africa has received in the past few years, I must register the profound disappointment of many of us on the continent that the expected volume of assistance has never been forthcoming. Moreover, the requisite action on the debt and aid fronts, which would have completed the picture, has also not been adequate. This is all the more regrettable because of the profound political risks that many Governments in Africa have run by faithfully implementing painful structural adjustment programmes that have had a severe impact on their peoples. It is also unfortunate because Africa has seen a tremendous upsurge of popular empowerment which has found expression in the establishment of constitutional rule in country after country. Let it not appear that the international community deliberately wishes to marginalize the African continent. The problem of poverty of the African continent, if not tackled seriously, could pose grave dangers to international peace and security. Many conflicts in Africa are occasioned by the strains of development and they could easily take on international dimensions. As we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, let us seek to fight against the arrogance of power and the return to the habits of colonialism as exhibited in the unjustified economic blockade against Cuba and the sanctions imposed on Libya. Such actions, particularly when sponsored by the United Nations, will serve to undermine the integrity of this Organization. The collapse of the cold war must make us more vigilant against any attempt to turn the United Nations into an instrument of the foreign policy of any one country or group of countries. When that happens, regional and subregional organizations will be tempted to question and/or disobey the decisions of the United Nations. This will be a tragic development that must be avoided at all costs. That is why Ghana, like other members of the OAU, calls upon the Security Council to lift the sanctions imposed unjustifiably on Libya and seek a peaceful solution to the Lockerbie affair and other related matters. We must of course forever maintain an uncompromising resolve to fight mindless terrorism. Let me conclude by reaffirming Ghana’s commitment to the United Nations as the best hope for peace and international cooperation. Long live the United Nations. May I first congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency in this most important year for the United Nations. It is nearly half a century since the General Assembly of the United Nations first met, in London. King George VI told the visiting representatives of 50 countries that no more important meeting had ever taken place there. The founders of the United Nations had taken on themselves a heavy responsibility and a noble work. Today we must pay tribute to those founders and their efforts. Earlier models of collective security had soon crumbled. The League of Nations collapsed after less than two decades. The United Nations has proved more durable. Over 50 years it has helped spread peace in place of war. It has worked to push back hunger and disease and to advance democracy and human rights. Without the United Nations we would have a bleaker world. I am delighted to add Britain’s voice to these celebrations at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. After five decades it is timely to recall what the United Nations has achieved. At the start of a new half-century it is right to weigh the lessons of past experience. The United Nations is a means to an end. Its value lies not simply in the shared principles and ambitions enshrined in the Charter, but in practical results. Its successes are real. The United Nations has been a force for peace. From Korea in the 1950s to Kuwait in the 1990s, it has helped check and reverse the tides of aggression. In the Near East and Cyprus, United Nations troops have worked for decades to sustain a measure of stability. In Cambodia the United Nations mounted its most complex operation ever to rebuild a country shattered by 13 years of war. In Mozambique United Nations peace-keepers have helped demobilize 100,000 combatants, allowing democratic elections and the creation of a unified army. The United Nations has been a source of relief from suffering. Since 1951 the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has provided food, shelter, medicine and education for over 30 million refugees. United Nations programmes have immunized 80 per cent of the world’s children against disease. United Nations sanitation and nutrition projects have halved child mortality in developing countries. The United Nations has been a motor for democracy and sustainable development. It has given electoral help to over 40 countries. Its charters and covenants set international standards of human rights. It has brokered agreements to conserve world forests and fish stocks. 9 The United Nations has done good work for five decades. My country, the United Kingdom, has been at its heart from the start. From the drafting of the Charter, as the first host, in London, of the General Assembly and of the Security Council, we have been a staunch supporter of the United Nations. From the first stirrings of environmental concern in the 1960s, to the fight against AIDS since the 1980s, through to management innovation and financial reform in the 1990s, Britain has been a driving force for the changing agenda of the United Nations. In 1947 we were a party to the first case to come before the International Court of Justice. This year a British judge became the Court’s first ever woman member. Even before the end of the cold war, British forces had served the United Nations cause for decades. For 30 years the United Nations operation in Cyprus has depended on British troops and logistics. In the last five years British forces have served in Kuwait, Cambodia, Rwanda, Angola, Georgia and, of course, Bosnia. Today Britain commits more troops to United Nations peace-keeping than any other Member State — with 10,250 out of a total of 69,000. Near the end of its first half-century, the end of the cold war opened a new chapter for the United Nations. After years of super-Power stalemate, it again became possible to take effective action in the Security Council, including by authorizing the use of force to reverse aggression. Almost immediately a rash of ethnically based regional disputes began to break out, from the former Yugoslavia in the West to Central Asia in the East. Early experience brought a sense of exhilaration. When Saddam Hussein made his foolish miscalculation and sought to wipe Kuwait off the map, the United Nations was the means chosen to stop him, and it worked. Talk of a new world order did not seem empty. Five years on, the record looks more diffuse. The international community could do little to halt disintegration in Somalia or to avert bloody collapse in Rwanda. The wars of secession in the former Yugoslavia have dragged on for four years. But those who speak of United Nations failure are wrong. The pendulum that swung too far towards euphoria after the Gulf War has swung too far towards despair. Look at the facts. Alongside the torment of Bosnia and Rwanda are the democratic revolutions that have swept South Africa, South America and Central and Eastern Europe. We live in a post-apartheid world, with a Europe of free nations and the Middle East peace process a reality rather than a slogan. The United Nations has helped bring about peace in Namibia, Cambodia, El Salvador, Mozambique and at last, perhaps, in Angola. Even in Bosnia, the real good the United Nations has done has been obscured by unreal expectations. The reality of the past five years is not one of spreading world disorder, but of painstaking, steady efforts to build peace. Compare this record to the grim setting for the first General Assembly meeting in 1946, when whole regions lay in ruins after five years of world war. The truth is that the history of serious attempts at international cooperation is still quite young. The United Nations is by far its most successful expression. There is today no one country or group of countries ready and able to cope with new world disorder all alone, and since regional instability and economic dislocation affect all our interests, we need a strong and effective United Nations. This is not to deny the need for change. But it is no good simply blaming the Organization. We, the United Nations Members, must meet our obligations to help improve the system. We have done much in recent years. The United Nations is better able now to plan, mount and conduct missions. Britain and others have seconded military officers to New York to develop the planning and operational capability and funded secondments by other nations. Last year Britain helped launch a new initiative on African peace-keeping. That is bearing fruit now, in United Nations regional training, in closer cooperation between African countries and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Conflict Resolution Mechanism and in products like the Anglo-French Peace-keeping Glossary, developed by the Ghanaian Staff College. The process of reform must continue. The more seriously the United Nations addresses issues like pre- planning, logistic support and command and control, the more confidence troop contributors will have, the more forces will be put at the disposal of the United Nations and the more effective the operations will be. Changing procedures is not enough. We must learn to be more realistic in what we ask of the United Nations. That means not setting aspirations we cannot provide the means to meet. Sometimes a declaratory statement is useful to put the international community’s views on record, to underpin a consensus. At other times it may be better for the Security Council to remain silent than to issue unrealistic pronouncements. 10 Bosnia and Somalia have shown the limits of peace- keeping. They offer a clear lesson. The United Nations is not yet suited to fight wars. Peace enforcement is better left, perhaps, to a coalition of the willing acting under United Nations authority. We must not send in the United Nations to keep a peace which does not exist and then blame the United Nations for failure, nor send it in mandated and equipped to keep the peace and then blame it because it does not enforce the peace. Whatever the blemishes of recent years, there is greater scope today for effective international action than ever before. The United Nations should be the centre-point of such work. I suggest we should focus greater effort in future on two areas. First, preventive action is better than cure. Far better than containing or extinguishing a fire is stopping it from igniting. Bosnia is the most tragic example. Today the prospects for peace look a little stronger. I commend the efforts of Dick Holbrooke, supported by the Contact Group, to mediate between the parties, and the agreement reached in Geneva on 8 September. Many hard choices lie ahead for all sides before a final settlement is achieved. But we have made a start. It is vital that all parties seize this chance for peace. Only political negotiations, not military force, can secure that. But the war has dragged on for three and a half years now. Tens of thousands of people have been killed; millions more have been made homeless. It will take years for the wounds inflicted on that country to heal. Certainly the suffering would have been many times worse without a United Nations presence. When I was in Sarajevo last week, the Bosnian Government told me how much it values the work done by British and other forces to help the people of Bosnia. But how much better for all these people if war had been avoided from the start. Perhaps much of the damage and destruction might have been prevented by closer international attention to the problems and tensions arising from the breakup of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s. We have started to learn that lesson. The early deployment of a small United Nations force in The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has helped to stop conflict from spreading there. Elsewhere the quiet diplomacy of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has helped defuse tension in Ukraine and Albania; has nudged adversaries toward peace talks in Georgia, Moldova and Chechnya. There are few headlines for successes that avert fighting and save lives. But the headlines of war carry a heavy price. Preventive action is a wiser investment. Many routes exist. Britain and France have sketched out one model: to use the skills of diplomats, of soldiers, of academics and others to defuse tension and promote dialogue. The presence of aid workers, human rights monitors, or United Nations envoys can help contain a brewing crisis; and all credit to the United Nations representative doing that in Burundi. We strongly support the efforts of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) to work with the United Nations in preventive diplomacy and conflict resolution. The initiative on African peace- keeping will help. So many different actors can play a part. The crucial point is not who acts but when. Early warning of a crisis and prompt action by the international community are the real key to avoiding further tragedy of the kind we have seen in Bosnia. My second proposal is for a new approach to peace- building. To provide lasting security requires more than diplomacy and military force. To build real peace we must bridge the gap between our humanitarian work and our long-term development work. Aid workers have grown used to coping with the debris of war. In the past five years the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has given help to millions fleeing conflict: Rwandans in Tanzania and Zaire, Afghans in Iran and Pakistan, Liberians in Côte d’Ivoire and in Guinea. But too often we treat short-term humanitarian needs in isolation. Huge sums have been spent in humanitarian efforts in Rwanda, for example. But Rwanda’s long-term stability depends on rebuilding the structures of society and on civil rights; helping local communities to help themselves, in areas from health and housing through to an effective judiciary. I suggest that two elements are key to a new approach. First of all, we must adopt a longer-term perspective in tackling immediate crises. Even when a cease-fire is holding, or elections have taken place, if the framework of society is shaky, a continued international presence can offer it stability until a government can cope. An abrupt end to a mission, by contrast, can be very destabilizing. In El Salvador, for example, a small human rights team stayed on after the United Nations troops had left, to 11 provide further advice and monitoring. Peace-keepers themselves can help begin the work of reconstruction. The United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the aid agencies have been doing that for over a year in central Bosnia, underpinning reconciliation between Muslim and Croat communities by rebuilding roads and hospitals and schools. I strongly support the thesis of the Secretary-General’s recent report: that we must go beyond electoral assistance, to preparing the social and institutional ground in which democracy and civil society can put down firm roots. The task of rebuilding Bosnia could be a model for the future. Secondly, we need far better coordination in what we do. If funds are to be gathered and used quickly and effectively, donors themselves must make a greater effort to meet their promises of help. Before operations begin, as planning gets under way, the international financial institutions must be involved from the start, as they were in Cambodia. All the actors in the United Nations system must be working together, military and political, humanitarian and development, crossing the traditional boundaries between rival baronies. Such a coalition of interests could plug the gap we see too often now, until the major reconstruction programmes can begin. My proposal is to build on these principles in United Nations programmes for stabilization and transition. There are many areas where international expertise can help restore a society; creating judicial systems; training an army; developing a finance ministry or a diplomatic service. To fulfil these needs, we should be prepared to loan our experts to countries emerging from conflict, as Britain’s Know-How Fund does for countries in Central and Eastern Europe emerging from communism. United Nations programmes for stabilization and transition could be the greatest contribution we could make to international security. The demands on the United Nations have grown enormously. To meet them the United Nations needs change at the centre too. I welcome work under way to cut costs and reduce waste in New York. The whole United Nations system must learn from that example. We need better planning and budgeting, an end to fraud and mismanagement. More subcontracting can help, using non- governmental organizations, even private companies, for tasks like mine clearance and logistics in Angola. And there is still too much duplication between the United Nations agencies. Rhetoric is not enough. Reform has to be real, and it has to be soon. This is not a side issue. It is not a narrow interest. If we are to do the United Nations work effectively — peace-keeping, aid or humanitarian — we must use its resources better. No one, G-7 or G-77, benefits from waste. Recent experience has shown the United Nations is in some ways ill-fitted for its tasks; under-powered in some areas, like peace-keeping and preventive diplomacy; but, however, still bloated in other parts of the system. United Nations Members must pay their dues. But the United Nations must justify those funds, and get the most from them, by hard decisions on duplication and over- staffing, and diverting resources to the top priorities. Britain supports enlargement of the Security Council to broaden its base without reducing its effectiveness. Permanent membership is the key issue. Permanent members of the Security Council must be both willing and able to make a significant contribution through the United Nations to international security. That is what the Security Council is about. That is what it must remain if it is to be effective. Germany and Japan are playing an increasing part across the range of United Nations business, and are among the top three financial contributors. It is right that they should benefit from an expansion of the permanent membership, with the wider rights that entails, but also with the wider responsibilities to contribute to security and peace-keeping. Broad geographical balance in an enlarged Council also needs to be maintained. But the United Nations system will never work if we do not fund it properly. The United Nations is on the verge of financial collapse. It is owed over $3.7 billion in unpaid contributions. Troop contributors are owed nearly $1 billion. Last year 39 countries failed to pay at all. The United Kingdom favours tightening of penalties for non- payment, including the charging of interest on late payments. We find unacceptable cross-funding of regular budget deficits from the peace-keeping budget. Perhaps an appropriate policy could best be entitled: No Representation without Taxation! The financing arrangements must change. Some members pay too much. Others, like the new economic giants of the developing world, now pay less than they should. We need a scale that is simpler and reflects a country’s real capacity to pay, and without the additional anomalies and distortions of the present system. Britain 12 and Sweden have put forward ideas. We need progress soon. But the problem is not solved by turning the tap off. This year we have all reaffirmed our support for goals and work of the United Nations. But empty words will not pay bills. The final lesson from the last 50 years may be the most important: the case for a strong, effective United Nations. In conclusion, may I say that the United Nations today faces a crisis of confidence. United States Congressmen may be the most vocal sceptics. They are not alone. The air of optimism, of a fresh start after the cold war, is overtaken in some quarters by gloom at the instability and fragmentation around us, and pessimism at our ability to cope. This despair is dangerous. Multilateral action is not an add-on to national policy. It gives wider legitimacy to principles we value, such as human rights and democracy. It spreads the cost of aims we share, such as freeing Kuwait from invasion or restoring democracy in Haiti. It lets us work with others to fight common threats, such as greenhouse-gas emissions or the international drug trade. The price is not high. The bill for all United Nations peace-keeping, all aid and development work last year, was slightly over 3.5 per cent of the United States’ defence budget, or less than the United Kingdom spends on police and public administration. One day of Operation Desert Storm cost as much as all that year’s United Nations peace- keeping. The price of disengagement and disorder would be greater. Public support is there. Even in the United States, polls are clear: people support the United Nations, and they support international peace-keeping. We have a duty to our electorates to continue the United Nations work. It is easy to forget the United Nations successes over 50 years. It is easy to turn away from disorder and chaos. But the world is too small. Crises in distant countries affect us too; our commerce, our citizens overseas, our neighbour’s security — ultimately it is our own. It is in our interest to play what part we can to build a more decent world. If the United Nations were not here to help do that, we would have to invent something else. The experience of five decades offers lessons for the future. I know the Secretary-General is committed to change. Getting the United Nations we need for the twenty- first century requires the support and participation of all Member States. The United Kingdom has played a full part in the United Nations for 50 years, and we will continue to do so. First of all I should like to extend my warmest congratulations to you, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, a renowned and distinguished academician and internationalist, on your well-deserved election as President of this historic session of the General Assembly marked by the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. I should also like to pay a tribute to Mr. Amara Essy in recognition of the admirable work he performed as President of the forty-ninth session of the Assembly. At the end of the twentieth century and the dawn of a new millennium, in a world characterized by a globalization of the economy and the dynamics of international relations, our reality is conditioned by factors such as the substantial progress of science, the transcendence of the technological revolution, the decisive influence of communications and information, the expansion of trade and the consequences of cultural and religious interaction. However, an acute imbalance of social and economic aspects coexists with these factors, mainly in the developing world, whose inhabitants account for three quarters of mankind. We are faced with problems that were not foreseen at the beginning of this century, including the internationalization of environmental problems, fragmentation and the revival of violent nationalisms, political and social instability, and the decrease in the transfer of international resources for development. In many third world countries social problems are increasingly becoming more acute. Extreme poverty, accompanied by hunger, malnutrition, abandonment, unemployment, disease and ignorance, has been combined in many regions with guerrilla movements and armed insurrection. Several countries face the consequences of the foreign debt crisis, associated with the lack of international political solidarity to relieve it. In many regions corruption has become an endemic disease. The production, consumption of and trafficking in narcotic drugs devastate our traditional social structures. Violence, 5 rural and urban, is on the increase, and the brutal means frequently used to suppress it actually promote its growth. Thus, in my capacity as Secretary pro tempore of the Rio Group, and as Ecuador’s representative in the Group, I should like, on its behalf, to call for the convening of a second international conference on narcotic drugs to examine appropriate mechanisms to foster the world fight against drug trafficking and its dire consequences. Keeping this perspective in mind, Ecuador will continue to favour the adoption of urgent measures within the international community to fight vigorously against all these social problems, which affect so many countries. The General Assembly proclaimed 1996 as the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty. My country hopes that, with this proclamation, international public opinion will become more conscious of the complexity of this grave problem and will try to find measures for its solution. Since the end of the cold war, international tensions have eased, and the intensification of trust between States has fostered the adoption of measures concerning nuclear disarmament. However, the danger implied by the proliferation and use of nuclear weapons prevails. For this reason, Ecuador strongly condemned the nuclear tests by China and France. We hope that the general appeal to cease all such tests will receive a positive response from these two countries. Ecuador favoured the consensus for an indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and, at the same time, considered that this historic decision formed part of an integral unity with the principles and objectives adopted on that occasion for the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and also with disarmament. In this regard, Ecuador recalls that the negotiations concerning a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty should conclude in 1996, at the latest, and that negotiations to ban fissionable materials for nuclear weapons should be scheduled shortly, with a view to achieving general and complete disarmament, pursuant the provisions of article VI of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. In this context, the full enforcement of the Treaty of Tlatelolco has made Latin America a nuclear-weapon-free zone. Our region offers this example as an incentive for the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones, especially in areas of greater tension. My country applauds the agreements reached by Israel and the national Palestinian Authority, which will undoubtedly contribute to the consolidation of peace in one of the regions most stricken by insecurity, violence and armed confrontations — the Middle East. We consider that these efforts and the measures to be taken in accordance with agreements already concluded will contribute to the total pacification of this region. Consequently, Ecuador expresses to the two parties its encouragement and its confidence that, with international support, they will continue along the path of peace that they have, happily, taken. On the other hand, we must express our deep concern about the ongoing armed actions in the former Yugoslavia, in spite of the Security Council’s frequent appeals and resolutions. We believe that the Powers with higher international responsibilities should resolutely take the necessary steps to end this regrettable situation. At the same time, Ecuador wishes to join in appeals concerning the dangerous situation in Burundi, which could result in bloody events comparable to those in Rwanda. The main purpose of the United Nations, its very reason for being, is the maintenance of international peace and security. It has been pointed out that since 1989 more than a hundred armed conflicts have erupted around the world — most of them due to domestic problems. Such situations have endangered the maintenance of international world peace and security — even world peace in some cases — showing the increasingly clear interrelationship between domestic and international affairs. That is why Ecuador believes that peace does not simply mean the absence of armed conflicts; it also comprises the political, economic and social conditions in which our peoples evolve. It should therefore be recognized that the non-military issues of human security and sustainable development have been added to the traditional security concepts. Ecuador believes, therefore, that the United Nations, with its 50 years’ experience of successes and failures, must be prepared to face the new challenges appearing throughout the world. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the international community today has more trust in the world Organization and is more often seeking more direct, more effective, intervention to reduce or resolve political, economic or social conflicts. This situation demands that the United Nations should be strengthened and restructured. My country believes that the Security Council should be restructured to reflect adequately not only the new international world order but also the current membership of the United Nations. It should also become more 6 capable — through the adoption of early-warning measures — of taking prompt and effective action in the fields of conflict-prevention and the continued deployment of peace-keeping operations to re-establish and consolidate peace. We do not believe that this urgent need to restructure the Council will be met by the mere inclusion of two major industrial Powers as new permanent members. When the question of increased membership is being discussed, we maintain that if the current imbalance is to be prevented from continuing to deteriorate, all geographical regions should be appropriately represented. We disagree with the extension of the veto privilege to additional members. Since this is a mechanism created to respond to world political realities that no longer exist, the Powers possessing this privilege should willingly agree to restrict its practice exclusively to issues related to Chapter VII of the Charter. The whole world would welcome such a decision by the five permanent members as an effective step towards a more democratic United Nations. The General Assembly, too, should be thoroughly revitalized to enable it to carry out its duties under Article 11 of the Charter in an effective and responsible manner, and so that its resolutions — in particular, those concerning issues related to the maintenance of international peace and security — may, duly observed and enforced, exercise the influence we would hope to see of resolutions of the highest political organ of the United Nations. The Economic and Social Council should also respond more adequately to the broad requirements set forth in the Charter. The Trusteeship Council has lost its significance, and should be entirely restructured. Similarly, the broad functions assigned to the Secretary-General in Article 99 of the Charter should be exercised to the fullest. Ecuador believes it is necessary to review the structure and functions of the Bretton Woods institutions and their relations with the United Nations. In order to obtain optimal results and fully utilize existing resources, it is essential to coordinate international efforts with regard to the international monetary system and economic and social progress. The severe financial crisis facing the United Nations could be alleviated were the Member States that are most in arrears, for various reasons, to make a sincere effort to meet their obligations. It is unacceptable to transfer the burden of resolving this crisis to the developing countries, whose weak economies cannot satisfy such demands. Having made respect for all human rights the motto of its Government, Ecuador attaches particular importance to United Nations actions in favour of the protection and promotion of such rights. It views with great concern the massive violations of human rights and the recrudescence of what were thought to be extinct practices, such as “ethnic cleansing”, which in some cases — as in the former Yugoslavia — have reached genocidal proportions, all of which constitute an unequivocal threat to international peace. Ecuador expresses its revulsion at, and condemns, attacks against civilians, especially the elderly, women and children, which are creating a growing number of refugees. Such violations are a challenge not only to the United Nations and the many valid international instruments, but to the moral conscience of all mankind. Ecuador promotes and supports all measures designed to put a stop to this deplorable situation, to punish the guilty and to re-establish a climate of trust, harmony and peace. It believes that the international community has a clear and unavoidable responsibility in this regard. We hope that the General Assembly, and particularly the Security Council, will take the necessary steps to deal effectively with the dangerous breaches of international peace and security such violations represent. We express our confidence in and support for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, and hopes that the Assembly will provide the administrative and financial resources necessary for him to carry out his important tasks to the full. Ecuador believes that democratic systems are the proper response to peoples’ yearning for freedom and fraternal coexistence and for cultural expression. To attain the objectives of the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People, Ecuador, a multi-ethnic country, has submitted various concrete programmes and initiatives, in consultation with national indigenous organizations, designed to improve the economic, social and cultural status of those groups while fully respecting their distinctive characteristics. It hopes to be able to rely on international cooperation in bringing these initiatives and programmes to fruition. In previous decades the United Nations led the struggle for the self-determination of peoples, which resulted in an end to the shameful colonial system. From the earliest years of its existence the Organization condemned the apartheid system, and it continued to do so until apartheid was abolished. The time has now come 7 for the United Nations to fight for the realization of the right to development, based on solid economic and social foundations, implying a promise of better living conditions for millions of human beings. Stable and lasting peace can be achieved only through a sustainable and harmonious development. That development must go hand in hand with urgent solutions to the problem of preserving the great heritage of mankind — the environment. Agenda 21, resulting from the “Earth Summit”, must be complied with. To play its part, Ecuador will continue to seek international cooperation to preserve its immense ecological wealth, not only of its continental territory, but also — and particularly — in the Amazonian region and the Galapagos Islands. In keeping with its policy of opening its economy, Ecuador has become the first new member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), which enables it, inter alia, to benefit from the guaranteed application of the principle of non-discrimination in its trade relations with all other members, to negotiate better terms for trade in Ecuadorian goods and services, to obtain technical support and assistance and to enjoy the favourable terms of trade accorded developing countries. My country considers that a stable relationship should be established between the World Trade Organization and the United Nations, and we therefore actively support the drafting of an agreement between these two Organizations in keeping with the Marrakech Accord and the San Francisco Charter. That could be the basis for the establishment of a new, more just and efficient international order, in which respect for the human person is guaranteed, people’s welfare is fostered, economic development is shared and the balance and fairness of international trade are guaranteed, so as to create a society based on international cooperation, solidarity and interdependence. The United Nations is called upon to perform an important task in realizing this new order. To that end, not only must the Organization as a whole be restructured, but all Member States, great and small, must offer their total political support to the United Nations. Ecuador has always upheld its historical, Amazonian and peaceful tradition and its respect for the rule of law. It has adhered to the purposes and principles of the Charter, including non-recourse to the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity of any other State and the obligation to resolve international disputes exclusively through peaceful means. Problems created by breaches of the peace occur in every part of the globe. Thus, early this year Ecuador was involuntarily involved in an unsought armed conflict of unpredictable consequences with its southern neighbour, Peru. The Secretary- General of the United Nations and the Organization’s Member States were informed of this unfortunate conflict, which arose out of the territorial problem that has for decades soured relations between our two countries. A peaceful, just and definitive solution of this controversy is a necessity not only for our two nations, but also for peaceful coexistence in Latin America. My Government has always sought to avoid such conflict through diplomatic channels. The actions taken by the guarantor countries under the Rio Protocol of 1942 were extremely important in arriving at a cease-fire during the military confrontation and in leading to the pacification process agreed to in the Itamaraty Peace Declaration of 17 February 1995 and ratified in the Montevideo Declaration of 28 February. This process has gradually led to the restoration of peace. We trust that, with the assistance of Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the United States, and their military observers still deployed in the conflict area, the aspirations of the Ecuadorian and Peruvian peoples will be fulfilled and that a definitive solution to the problem on the terms that I have mentioned will be achieved. The action taken by the guarantor countries regarding the conflict between Ecuador and Peru has proved particularly effective, and we are certain it will lead to a total normalization of relations between Ecuador and Peru. At the recent meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the countries of the Rio Group, held last 4 and 5 September, there were important signs of relaxation of tension in the statements made by the Heads of State of both countries as well as in the encouraging positions of the other countries, which we believe, provide not only a clear orientation towards peace but also support for complete peaceful coexistence, while at the same time creating a space for dialogue, constructive negotiations and a resumption of the integrationist processes that serve to consolidate peace. All this, moreover, will clear a sure path towards cooperation, in various spheres of our relations with our neighbours and with other countries, with mutual respect and understanding. I believe we have begun to move towards a better understanding, and if we prepare a framework of good will we will be able not only to bring our divergent positions closer together but also to reach agreements for lasting solutions. 8 The problems threatening international peace — which arouse natural fears, create anxiety, work against the people’s well-being, cause enormous losses of human life and bring about an immense deterioration of social and economic development — are no doubt the gravest problems, and they call for action for peace by all means possible. They are deep-rooted problems that require a positive response from international organizations, both global and regional, when their assistance is needed to solve such problems. I extend to you, Sir, my delegation’s felicitations on your well-deserved election as President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. We have no doubt that with your experience and wisdom, you will add much to this historic session. We also pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, who presided over the Assembly at its forty-ninth session with great distinction and wisdom. To His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our Secretary-General, I would like to pay a special tribute for all he has done for peace and the promotion of the United Nations Charter. To the Republic of Palau, a new Member of our Organization, I would like to say, “Welcome”. We look forward to working closely with that country. We are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of our Organization. On this momentous occasion, as the Secretary-General aptly observed in his report (A/49/1), we must resolve to “appreciate and strengthen the accomplishments of the past, to recognize and meet the challenges of the present, and to design and implement a plan for the United Nations of the future.” (A/49/1, para. 12) We must seize this historic opportunity to forge a global consensus behind development, in all its dimensions, as the lasting foundation for international peace and security and as the greatest hope of humanity. Pakistan has been strongly committed to the noble vision of the United Nations Charter ever since its independence. We have continuously abided by its 17 principles. We reaffirm our faith in their timeless validity. Pakistan will continue to extend its support and cooperation to the collective efforts of the world for peace. After exactly 50 years, retrospection evokes mixed feelings. Yet members of our Organization have much to celebrate. The decolonization process, the elimination of apartheid, humanitarian assistance and handling of refugee situations are some of the areas where the United Nations can be proud of its achievements. But much remains to be done. The end of the cold war provided a historic opportunity to build a new edifice of peace and prosperity: a system in which international relations would be conducted in a spirit of justice, equality and democracy; where poverty would cease to exist, through international cooperation for development; where human rights, especially the right to self-determination, would be promoted and protected; and where aggression would be effectively and collectively challenged wherever and whenever it occurred. Regrettably, this has not happened. Now, more than ever, it seems that the powerful countries are imposing their will on the United Nations. The decisions and the resolutions adopted by it reflect the interests of a few rather than the good of all. The provisions of collective security are being invoked selectively. Human rights standards are being defended more vociferously in some situations than in others. While in some cases aggression has been forcefully and decisively resisted, in others it has remained unchecked and even rewarded. Jammu and Kashmir is a case in question, where the Muslim majority continue to be denied their right to self- determination promised to them by Security Council resolutions. These resolutions remain unimplemented. The denial of the right to self-determination led to a massive uprising in the Indian-occupied Kashmir in 1989. Demand for the exercise of this fundamental right was met with a brutal reign of terror unleashed by the Indian occupation forces. It continues unabated and is being pursued with malicious intensity, with devastating consequences for the civilian population of this internationally recognized disputed territory. In Kashmir the principles of the United Nations Charter, international law and international morality have been violated with impunity. The massive and widespread human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir have been graphically documented by a large number of international human rights organizations. Since I stood at this rostrum a year ago, tensions have further escalated in South Asia. One billion people of South Asia are holding their breath as threats of war keep emanating from the leaders in New Delhi. Jammu and Kashmir continues to burn. The sons and daughters of Kashmir continue to be killed, maimed, executed, tortured and dishonoured. Will the new year of the United Nations bring an end to the rape of Kashmir? Will the beginning of the next half century of the United Nations see the implementation of its resolutions on Kashmir? The Jammu and Kashmir dispute was not brought to the Security Council by Pakistan. It was India which moved this dispute before the United Nations. The people of Kashmir are looking to this body to deliver them their right to self-determination, as promised to them by this body, by the international community and by India and Pakistan. Since I stood before the Assembly a year ago, hundreds of Kashmiris have been killed by the Indian forces. Holy places of the Muslims have been razed to the ground by the Indian occupation forces. The holiest of the holy shrines, Charar-e-Sharif, was burned to ashes. The city of Charar-e-Sharif was torched. Is it not ironical that the great Sufi saint, Noor-ud-Din Wali, buried in the shrine there was a man who preached love and tolerance five centuries ago to all humanity, and not just to Muslims? Hindus, Buddhists, Christians and Sikhs also seek spiritual solace at his grave. The disdainful act of desecration of this symbol of peace and harmony by the Indian forces has not extinguished the spirit of freedom in Kashmir. The occupation forces, now numbering more than 600,000, use torture, killings and brutality against the people, against its leaders, and even against innocent journalists. The people of Kashmir were outraged at the killing of a journalist, Mushtaq Ali, in the bomb blast at the BBC office in Srinagar. The whole of Kashmir went into deep mourning at this wanton killing. But India refuses to look truth in the face. The people of Kashmir and Pakistan are deeply shocked at the killing of the Norwegian tourist by the kidnappers of the Al-Faran Group. We join our Kashmiri brothers in condemning this horrible act against an innocent tourist, and we demand the release of the remaining four tourists. We have extended every possible cooperation to countries whose citizens’ lives are still in 18 danger, but we have a right to ask: Who are Al-Faran? Nobody seems to have heard of this group ever before. There is too much circumstantial evidence which points an accusing finger at New Delhi. We do not want rhetoric; we do not want to score points. We want the safety and the freedom of these innocent tourists. Pakistan calls for an independent and impartial inquiry into the hostage-taking by Al-Faran, under the auspices of the United Nations, so that those responsible for this act can be brought to justice. India continues to harp on the issue of elections in Jammu and Kashmir. Let it ask the All Parties Hurriyet Conference, the representative party of all Kashmiri organizations in Jammu and Kashmir and the sole voice of the Kashmiri people, whether they want elections, or a plebiscite and the implementation of the Security Council resolutions. Kashmir is an international dispute. India cannot internalize it behind the garb of bilateralism. If this “non- principle” was allowed to prevail as the basis for the settlement of disputes, then there would be no international morality left. There would be no international order, and the world community could say farewell to peace. It would become the law of the jungle. In the meantime, along the Line of Control in Kashmir our people are being killed daily and injured by cross- border firing and rocketing. Access to over 80,000 of our people in the Neelam Valley has been cut off by daily Indian firing. India claims that Pakistani militants cross into Kashmir. In good faith and in order to ascertain the veracity of the Indian allegations, I wrote to the President of the Security Council last year asking for the expansion of the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) on both sides of the Line of Control. India’s response to this constructive proposal was a firm “No”. Instead, it deployed 800 troops per kilometre and built three Security Zones along the Line of Control. I ask: Can there be cross-border violations after such heavy fortifications? By what logic can they reject our proposal for increasing United Nations observers? The answer is obvious. They want merely to score points in international forums. They want to build an argument against Pakistan. They want to convince the world that it is not the Kashmiri people who are alienated from India, but Pakistan that is turning a blind eye to militants crossing the Line of Control from our side. I ask you to ponder this Indian posture. In history this has always been the language of the aggressor, of those who want to maintain the status quo. I cannot believe that Indian authorities are so naive as to believe that the Kashmiri uprising is foreign- inspired. Other Powers have also made such mistakes in the past, much to their dismay and ultimate discomfiture. India must learn from history. The march of history has never been, and never will be, altered by a systematic falsification of facts or a string of blatant lies. The people of Kashmir have rejected the Indian occupation. No amount of repression, no amount of killings, gang-rapes, torture or mining of villages will deter the people of Jammu and Kashmir from winning their right to self-determination. This truth is being lost on New Delhi. For our part, we are prepared for dialogue. We are prepared for mediation by the Secretary-General or by the President of the Assembly, or by any peace-loving country under any modality, under any arrangement. We are prepared for peace. We want conflict resolution. We want talks but the talks must be on the substantive issue of Jammu and Kashmir. Talks must aim at achieving settlement. Talks must be on the basis of a structured agenda. Once the issue of Jammu and Kashmir is resolved, it will open the door for a solution to all other Indo-Pakistan disputes. But our offers of talks have fallen on deaf ears. India now hides behind a new subterfuge that talks should be unconditional, that talks must be without an agenda. We cannot accept this because during the last 23 years under the Simla Agreement, the two Foreign Secretaries met seven times without any result. Every time a meeting takes place the Indian side states that Kashmir is an integral part of India and not an international dispute. This is a negation of the United Nations Security Council resolutions. This is a negation of the Simla Agreement, and I quote article 6 of the Simla Agreement, which states, “Both Governments agree ... to discuss further the modalities and arrangements for the establishment of durable peace and of normalization of relations”, including “a final settlement of Jammu and Kashmir”. The Simla Agreement is fully within the framework of the United Nations Charter. 19 Then we are told that the Security Council resolutions are outdated. What will the world look like if countries were allowed unilaterally to reject United Nations resolutions, and if this deviationist stance were to become a universal principle of international morality? Can morality become outdated? Can evil become good with time? Instead, India has gone on to a feverish arms race. When they exploded their nuclear bomb in 1974, we told them not to push South Asia into a nuclear arms race. But our warnings were not heeded and now, along with its massive blue-water navy, which threatens the shores of Africa and Asia, they have launched into an arms race in South Asia. Their Prithvi missiles are Pakistan-specific. The Prithvi missile is a tension multiplier: it gives Pakistan only three minutes’ response time. What are they arming themselves for? Who threatens them in Asia? Their leaders talk of extending the Indian military and naval might to the shores of the Indian Ocean. In this day and age this approach is downright anachronistic. During the Eighth Summit of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), which was held in New Delhi in May this year, President Leghari urged Prime Minister Narasimha Rao and the Indian leadership not to take this fateful step. He urged the Indian leadership to come to the table and solve the core Kashmir dispute. He also warned that if India continued with this feverish race for arms, and now for missiles, then Pakistan would have no choice but to rethink its options within the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR). Having fought three wars to defend its territory, the people of Pakistan feel threatened. That is why peace is important. That is why peace is vital for Pakistan. But I want to make it absolutely clear — and let there be no doubt about it in anyone’s mind — that the people of Pakistan have the will to survive, and survive they will with dignity and honour. One fifth of humanity, a billion people, live in the seven countries of South Asia. The world is passing us by. Our people are trapped in poverty, in hunger, in disease and unemployment. Don’t our people deserve better? Don’t they deserve a chance? Don’t six countries have a right to live in peace in South Asia? It is our earnest hope that those in New Delhi who threaten war should look at the state of poverty of their own people. We hope that they have the political will to ensure the peaceful settlement of disputes, and there will be many peace dividends if peace comes to South Asia. Peace will be worth their while. Trade will flourish, mega- projects in the Gulf, from Iran and from Central Asia will bring prosperity to our peoples. I hope that better counsel will prevail in New Delhi and I hope there are still men of peace and vision left in India who will not be the prisoners of the acrimonies of history but will look to the future of a billion people. The Secretary-General, in his 1995 report on the work of the Organization (A/50/1), has recognized the aggravation of relations between India and Pakistan as a result of increasing incidents of violence in Jammu and Kashmir. We would like, in particular, to facilitate the search for a lasting solution to the Kashmir dispute. We hope that India will also accept the United Nations Secretary-General’s offer of good offices, as Pakistan has done. We also sincerely hope that the United Nations General Assembly will use its authority to exert pressure on India to stop immediately the brutal violations of human rights and to implement the Security Council resolutions which ask for the holding of a plebiscite in Jammu and Kashmir. What has been happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the past few years is a monumental tragedy. The world has witnessed a Member State of the United Nations being made victim of brutal aggression and its people subjected to atrocities, massive violations of human rights, ethnic cleansing and the abhorrent practice of genocide — acts which would put the horrors of the Second World War to shame. The killing fields of Srebrenica and Zepa are sadly reminiscent of Auschwitz and Buchenwald. Yet the international response has been totally inadequate and has often come too late. The Bosnian Muslims were left to defend themselves against a vastly superior military machine, their hands tied by an unjustified arms embargo. Pakistan strongly reiterates its firm support for the demand by the Bosnian people for the lifting of the arms embargo. For its part, Pakistan remains strongly committed to offering every possible assistance to the people and Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We must seek credible international guarantees for the preservation of the unity and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If one step is taken towards peace, the world of Islam is prepared to take two steps more. We have taken 20 note of the action taken by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries and of the establishment of the rapid reaction force. We urge the NATO countries not to relent on the air strikes until the Serbian aggressors and delinquents are made to pay a price for their deeds and to act like civilized people. Unless peace is fully restored and a just and equitable settlement is in place, the OIC will reserve its right to challenge the illegal United Nations arms embargo on the Bosnian people. We fully support the Croatian efforts to recover Krajina and their other territories from Serbian military occupation. We demand that in the settlement Srebrenica and Zepa be restored to their original United Nations- designated safe-area status. We also demand that Kosovo and Sanjak be protected from Serbian “ethnic cleansing”. The Declaration of Principles signed recently in Geneva is something we consider well-begun but only half-done. There are many pitfalls, and we see many dangers in the implementation of the Declaration of Principles. A lot more vision and courage on the part of the world community will be required if the entire peace plan is to be fully implemented. We hope that the United Nations, the European Union and NATO will demonstrate the courage required to resolve the crisis in the Balkans. The situation in Afghanistan makes us very sad. The people of Afghanistan wait in anguish for peace to return to their tortured land. There appears to be no end to the fighting between the various groups. One and a half million Afghans are still in my country. They too, like us, look to the United Nations and to the OIC to bring peace to their land. I should like to state here unequivocally, and with all the responsibility at our command, that in no way have we interfered in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. We would also urge that no other country do so. We would urge other States not to increase the suffering of the Afghan people by supporting one group or the other. We should all support United Nations Special Representative Mahmoud Mestiri’s mission to bring peace to Afghanistan, a peace based on accommodation for all factions and all groups. This peace can be achieved only through mutual accommodation and national reconciliation. In the last 18 months, our Mission has twice been subjected to mob attacks. In the second one, 26 of our officials were injured, including Ambassador Qazi Humayun, and one staffer was killed. This is most unfortunate. We hope that the sanctity of the Mission will be respected and that the Vienna Conventions will be honoured. For over a decade, Pakistan supported the legitimate struggle of our Afghan brothers against foreign intervention. Once this intervention was ended, Pakistan promoted accords among the Afghan parties and factions for a peaceful transition from war to peace. It was as a consequence of the compromise achieved in the Islamabad accord of May 1992 that President Rabbani took office. His Government was to be a transitional one and was to prepare for a broad-based and popular government representing all regions and political forces in Afghanistan. Unfortunately, as the Secretary- General’s Special Representative, Mr. Mestiri, has clearly stated, the regime in Kabul did not allow the promised transition to a representative government to take place. In large measure because of this refusal to live up to solemn agreements, fighting in Afghanistan has been endemic during the past few years. The fortunes of war recently turned against President Rabbani’s regime because it became increasingly unpopular with the Afghan people. A regime in Kabul whose de facto legitimacy we have not questioned, a regime in Kabul that today controls only 5 of about 32 provinces in Afghanistan: this regime has tested our patience again and again. This regime chooses to punish unarmed and innocent staffers and the Ambassador. It chooses to burn down our Embassy and its premises. But this has not made Pakistanis angry at the Afghan nation. It has merely made us sad, because this regime has forgotten the 14 years of the support given and the sacrifices made by the people of Pakistan for their freedom. Instead, it chooses to please those who destroyed their country, who killed and maimed millions of Afghan men, women and children, who destroyed houses, who destroyed people’s lives, who planted millions of land-mines across the country — a large number of which have yet to be removed. By these wanton acts, which go against the Vienna Conventions, the Kabul regime wants to win the favour of those who seek to fish in the troubled waters of Afghanistan. The Kabul regime seeks to survive with the help of military support from the enemies of the Afghan nation, while it rules through a minority. It seeks to conquer Afghanistan through military force. This is against history. This will not happen. The regime is forgetting the code of honour of the Afghan nation. While we in Pakistan are sad at what has happened to our countrymen in Kabul, the chivalrous Afghan people are angered and incensed. We take no responsibility for what the Afghan people will do to vindicate their honour. They know that there never was, and never will be, interference from 21 Pakistan. The world knows that a faltering regime always wants to lay its follies and its internal defeats at the doorsteps of others, and for this the Afghan nation will demand, and get, retribution. However, this provocation will not deter us from our steadfast path of neutrality towards the Afghan people and the unity of Afghanistan or from non-interference in Afghanistan’s internal affairs or our abiding friendship and brotherhood with the Afghan nation. In the meantime, we would like to assure the people of Afghanistan that we shall stand by them in their hour of trial. We shall not abandon them. Pakistan was closely associated with the third round of United Nations-sponsored inter-Tajik talks. While I pay tribute to the United Nations Special Representative, Ambassador Píriz-Ballón, for his statesmanship, which led to the main elements for peace in Tajikistan, let me add that our role too was to bring about national reconciliation in that country. We shall continue to cooperate with the United Nations to bring about complete peace in our friendly neighbour Tajikistan. The events in Azerbaijan, too, are a matter of deep concern to us. We fully support the efforts of President Gaider Aliyev for an equitable settlement of the Nagorny- Karabakh dispute; a settlement which is based on the removal of aggression against Azerbaijan. We fully support the Middle East peace process. We hope that the Palestine Liberation Organization-Israeli accord is implemented in letter and spirit without any recourse to delay by Israel. We have supported the Jordan- Israeli peace accord and favour a negotiated settlement of related issues, especially the Golan Heights, southern Lebanon and Jerusalem. Pakistan continues to be deeply concerned over the situation in Somalia. The United Nations, along with the Organization of African Unity, the Arab League and the Organization of Islamic Conference must endeavour to promote an early political solution in that country and its eventual reconstruction. In other areas which impinge on the peace and stability of the world can be seen the lack of progress in the field of disarmament of weapons of mass destruction, particularly in the field of nuclear weapons. The end of the bipolar world based on hostile camps has removed the impediments to pursuing the goal of nuclear disarmament. Yet the goal remains elusive. It is incomprehensible why commitments cannot be translated into reality. The agreements reached on the reduction of strategic arms still fall far short of the expectations raised by the end of the cold war. The world should resolve to remove the scourge of nuclear weapons from the face of this earth. Until nuclear disarmament is realized, the nuclear- weapon States should give unconditional security assurances to the non-nuclear-weapon States. In this context, the Conference on Disarmament should establish an ad hoc committee right at the beginning of 1996 to negotiate a legally binding convention on security assurances. The Conference on Disarmament should also continue its work on a comprehensive test-ban treaty for its early conclusion. Parallel to all these global efforts, regional avenues should be promoted for nuclear non-proliferation. The concept of nuclear-weapon-free zones is finally being translated into reality in different parts of the world. Unfortunately, the proposal Pakistan made 20 years ago to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia has not even taken off because of the negative attitude of certain States in the region. Nevertheless, Pakistan has continued to advocate efforts to eliminate the dangers of proliferation from South Asia. To that end, we have made several suggestions. Regrettably, they have not evoked a positive response from India. Pakistan has also proposed conventional disarmament at the regional and subregional levels. We hope that the Conference on Disarmament will deliberate upon this approach and evolve guidelines to bring at par the weaponry and forces of the regional States. In our view, the emerging role of the United Nations as a peace maker and a peace-keeper would greatly help in achieving peace and harmony at the regional as well as the global levels. We believe that preventive diplomacy is the cornerstone of United Nations peace efforts. Pakistan has been actively cooperating and participating in a major way in United Nations peace-keeping efforts. It is a matter of immense satisfaction that today Pakistan is the third largest troop-contributing country to United Nations peace-keeping operations. Pakistan believes that certain operational realities must be justified for the success of such operations. We 22 need a clear commitment from the international community, accompanied by a clear political direction and a unified command structure. In order to ensure better and effective implementation of Security Council resolutions, there is a need for thorough consultations between the members of the Council, as well as actual troop-contributing countries and the Secretariat, at all stages of any peace-keeping operation. As we enter the new millennium, our collective objective should be to maximize economic growth leading towards the ultimate objective of human development. To promote peace and prosperity, it is essential to facilitate rather than restrain the application of modern technology for economic and social development. Adequate official resources should be channelled to those developing countries which are implementing far- reaching economic reforms and liberalization measures. A net flow of official assistance should be directed in particular towards the eradication of poverty, human and social development programmes and sustainable growth in the developing countries. This is particularly true of Africa, a continent which has been largely bypassed by the economics of the twentieth century. For our part, Pakistan extends full support to the United Nations development assistance plans for Africa and for the Sahel. Pakistan is encouraged by the conclusion of the Uruguay Round, despite the partial and unequal response to the trade interests of the developing countries. The global economy is finally coming out of recession. New growth is likely to be generated mostly in the developing countries, whose integration into the world’s financial and trading system can immensely contribute towards global output. There is, therefore, a unique opportunity to create a just, fair, equitable and non-discriminatory global economy. Free markets and open economies do not imply a disregard for the plight of the poor and the disadvantaged. This principle must be applied as much among nations as within nations. The aim must be to improve living conditions for all within a dynamic economic framework. Pakistan welcomes the constructive outcome of the recently held Conference on Population and Development, the World Summit for Social Development and the Fourth World Conference on Women. We in Pakistan are particularly aware of the need to address the problems of the deprived segments of our society. Development initiatives, such as the Social Action Programme, are being formulated within the constitutional framework. Our Constitution contains a number of articles related to social integration with particular reference to women and children and religious and ethnic minorities, as well as those living in poverty. Special efforts are being made to ensure the full participation of women in nation building. Pakistan’s approach to employment and poverty eradication combines policies for national growth, employment and price stabilization with programmes that target the poor and the vulnerable. Pakistan would like to reiterate the importance it has always attached to the reform of the United Nations. Pakistan supports the reaffirmation made by the Non- Aligned Movement that both the reform and expansion aspects of the Security Council should take into account the principles of the sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical distribution, as well as the need for transparency, accountability and democratization in the working methods and procedures of the Security Council. Pakistan remains strongly opposed to centres of privilege within the United Nations system. These are anachronistic, anti-democratic and contrary to the principle of sovereign equality. In conclusion, the challenges that Member States of the United Nations confront are indeed forbidding. Yet the opportunities for genuine peace and universal prosperity are most promising. With good will and cooperation, all Member States can make significant progress at this historic session towards the vision of peace, progress and human solidarity envisaged in the Charter of the United Nations. This is an extraordinary moment of opportunity. The decisions we take today will determine whether the new era will be one of hope and prosperity or one of despair and deprivation. The choices to build a peaceful world are therefore entirely in our own hands. The island State of Saint Lucia shares the sense of history and the mantle of responsibility that falls over the General Assembly on this, the fiftieth anniversary of the birth of the United Nations. We must exult in the realization that a vague dream of peace in the aftermath of a world war has in five decades firmed into a solid commitment by 185 nations to shoulder the burden of the global community, embracing every aspect of life around the world. The elevation of Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session is a distinct honour to his country and a timely recognition of the high esteem in which he is held by his colleagues in the international arena. During this dramatic and exciting half century the General Assembly has had its task cut out for it as it has been called upon to deal with disruptions arising from human failing, and often from human folly, which have threatened to obstruct the path towards the fulfilment of the ideals of the United Nations. However, some of the Organization’s finest moments have occurred in this half century — none more historic than when we presided over the liquidation of apartheid and saw established the multiracial State of South Africa. We have seen the end of the conflict in Namibia, with the hope that this brings for the economic and social progress of its people. We have monitored the collapse of the Berlin wall. We have seen democracy in Haiti. We have been able to deter aggression aimed at fulfilling territorial ambitions, even while we have been able to encourage the prospects for peace in the Middle East. Any inclination that we may have nurtured towards self-congratulation is, however, arrested by events like the slaughter in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Rwanda, the “ethnic cleansing” operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the seeming difficulty of ending the conflict. We are reminded by these events of the task that still lies ahead of us in fulfilling the dream of a better world. We take pride in speaking of the equality of Member nations irrespective of size, and indeed have gone a long way towards ensuring such equality. We have admired how extremely large and very small nations have had the opportunity to contribute equally to the deliberations of the Assembly and to its decision-making process. There are however a number of impediments which still militate against smaller nations such as ours. The confrontational posture of the cold war had given a strategic prominence to small States, then useful as pawns in the global chess game between super-Powers. Now that the small States have outlived their usefulness as honest brokers in the super-Power game, the altered political circumstances have left them stranded and marginalized. The pious promises of the developed world to allocate a minuscule percentage of national income to the provision of aid for the developing world have shrunk to non-fulfilment; the thought of the strong economies helping the weak has shrivelled like a raisin in the sun. Saint Lucia has experienced a dramatic decline in grant assistance — by almost 50 per cent between the financial years 1993-1994 and 1994-1995; but we can ill afford to sit around and merely moan. We recognize and accept that we must use the fact of diminished aid to increasingly spur on our own efforts towards greater efficiency and increased productivity. But in striving towards the achievement of this end, we find ourselves up against multinational trading interests intent on adding to the maw of their already well-nourished entities the morsels of trade on which the survival of our economy depends. The European Union banana regime came into force in June 1993 as part of the process of creating a single European market, replacing a series of long-standing national arrangements between individual member States and traditional banana suppliers. The United States itself has led the way in instituting various national and international arrangements in the interests of its own farming community. The existing banana regime seeks to ensure that demand for bananas across the European Union is satisfied, while at the same time providing traditional suppliers of bananas to Europe from developing countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific with continued access to the European market at 5 viable price levels. In doing so the European Union fulfils a legal commitment under the Lomé Convention, that is that the introduction of the single market should place traditional suppliers in no worse a position than in the past. That is achieved by a combination of tariff quotas and licences which ensure that suppliers from the African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP) maintain — but cannot increase — their market share of approximately 15 per cent of the total European Union demand for bananas. This facility is not aimed at victimizing United States firms or indeed firms of any particular nationality. This is clearly demonstrated by the fact that over 60 per cent of the European Union’s market demand for bananas is satisfied by fruit imported from Central and South America, principally by three United States multinationals. It is important to note that the Caribbean’s share of the world market for bananas is a paltry 3 per cent compared to the more than 70 per cent share of dollar bananas, mostly controlled by these multinationals. There is general nervousness and a creeping instability threatening the Caribbean banana-growing States resulting from the decision of the United States Trade Representative to pursue Section 301 action in response to an application by Chiquita Brands International and the Hawaii Banana Industry Association challenging the European banana import regime. We have since been advised that the United States Government is to pursue a complaint against the regime within the World Trade Organization (WTO). Since the banana industry accounts for about 50 per cent of the domestic exports of the Windward Islands and around 90 per cent of all agricultural earnings in Saint Lucia and Dominica, it is indisputable that the collapse of the industry which would accompany any tampering with the regime would have a disastrous impact on the economies of these very small countries. In addition, the interdependence of Caribbean Community (CARICOM) trading arrangements would, in the circumstances, produce a ripple of economic downturn and accompanying social unrest and political instability throughout the CARICOM region. The resulting prospect of massive unemployment, displaced family wage earnings and an escalation in criminal and drug activity is too horrific to contemplate. The Caribbean must call on the good sense and high ideals of this body to use whatever influence it has at its disposal to avert this looming danger. The United Nations may well consider it useful to develop a framework of international review and regulation with respect to the activities and policies of transnational corporations, which are becoming increasingly influential actors on the world scene. There is little need to emphasize the openness and vulnerability of Caribbean economies. We are exposed to the fury of natural disasters, as was evidenced by the havoc wrought by Tropical Storm Debbie, from which Saint Lucia is still recovering; the recent demolition of Antigua and Saint Kitts by Hurricane Luis; and the devastation of St. Croix, St. Thomas, St. Maarten and Dominica by Hurricane Marilyn. With severe limitations of size and resources, we are now called upon to come to terms with changes brought about by the process of liberalization and its requirement to be competitive globally; we are therefore forced to diversify our interests in reaction to the liberalization and deregulation processes which are taking place in the international marketplace. The classical response calls for restructuring aimed at economic diversification, accompanied of course by increasing efficiency and productivity. In terms of diversification the services sector holds attractions. In this context many of our countries are anxious to explore the field of offshore financial services to enhance the Governments’ revenue base. We are, however, alert to the dangers associated with that sector and, while pursuing the benefits to be derived from such institutions, we must be ever on guard for white-collar criminals who, as part of their everyday activity, launder their ill-gotten gains through the international financial systems, using both public- and private-sector capital projects for this purpose. Quite often the strategies employed by quasi-investors to launder their wealth are both innovative and sophisticated and require equally sophisticated systems to deal with their ingenious malpractices. Our growing States are not yet able to acquire the kind of resources to engage in a full-fledged war against such nefarious institutions. Admittedly, the 1988 United Nations Vienna Convention has sought to criminalize the laundering of money derived from the illicit drug trade. But it is crucial that our countries in the Caribbean area take a positive stand to enforce the law and protect our communities from these destructive practices. In this context, international financial institutions should use their influence, through moral suasion, to encourage member countries, as a matter of urgency, to adopt the measures necessary to achieve the objectives of the 40 recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force. In 6 the Caribbean area our CARICOM colleagues will no doubt embrace the nineteen recommendations of the Caribbean Financial Action Task Force. In the course of the year, our country attracted some attention in respect of irregularities surrounding the use of the Pérez-Guerrero Trust Fund. We did not flinch from the costly decision to appoint a full commission of inquiry in our anxiety to ensure the fullest possible accountability. In these trying times, when cynics are ready to decry the achievements of the United Nations and besmirch its idealism, it is the bounden duty of all Member States to wash off the stains of calumny and allow the ideals, principles and performance of this illustrious body to continue to inspire the world. The Phillips Commission cleared both the Saint Lucia Government and the organs of the United Nations of any complicity or blame in the affair. This experience, however, points to the need for being on constant guard against those who without scruples would seek to compromise the traditions and the integrity of government and of this body. The end of the cold war has left many countries stranded on the beachhead of marginalization. In the context of the Caribbean, we are learning to deal with our isolation by exploring new internal alliances designed to foster pride in our patrimony, reduce our vulnerability, pool our human resources and intensify our self-reliance. The logic of this internationalization is to strengthen the links between us in the Eastern Caribbean, within the context of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), even while we consolidate the process of the closer integration of the Caribbean Community. The circle of integration expands in a growing relationship with countries in the wider Caribbean basin and the countries of Latin America. This new thrust of integration has found expression in the recently established Association of Caribbean States, which links the countries of Central and South America, as well as other Caribbean countries such as Haiti, the Dominican Republic and Cuba. We will, however, within the Lomé Convention, maintain our long and valuable historical links with Europe even while, by implementing the decisions of the Summit of the Americas, we seek to expand and consolidate our hemispheric ties. This new Caribbean initiative has much to recommend it. The concept cuts clear across the barriers of race, language and culture to establish a market of 204 million people with an annual trade volume of $180 billion and establishes a regional base from which competitive strength may be developed for dealing in the global arena. In the case of Haiti, we can now look hopefully forward with new confidence to the restoration of democracy in an environment of peace and stability. The new setting should pave the way for the Haitian people’s achievement of economic, social and political well-being. The re-establishment of democratic order leaves Haiti poised to play a greater role, in concert with its CARICOM colleagues, in helping shape the new international order. The United States of America, the CARICOM grouping and the United Nations itself can feel satisfied over and take pride in the fact that their sustained interest and cooperation have led to the promotion of Haiti’s rehabilitation and economic development. Saint Lucia renews its commitment to support the consolidation of the hard-won gains in Haiti in the hope that the country will finally enjoy the fruits of democracy, with full respect accorded the inalienable rights of its people. In the case of Cuba, we are firmly convinced that the cause of democracy can best be served by the diffusion of its values through association and example and not in a process of isolation. That is why Saint Lucia joins its Caribbean colleagues in calling for an end to the economic blockade of Cuba so as to allow that Caribbean country the flexibility to develop the creativity of its people and pursue its Caribbean destiny. The winds of change which blew across Africa in the fifties were fuelled by a strong pan-Africanism. It is generally known that the ideas which generated the liberation struggles in Africa came out of the cross- fertilization of the ideas of African and Caribbean thinkers. Caribbean thinkers like Saint Lucia’s Nobel laureate, Sir Arthur Lewis, and others, such as C.L.R. James and George Padmore, were strong influences on persons like Kwame Nkrumah, Jomo Kenyatta and Sékou Touré. This historic link between the Caribbean and Africa must continue, especially at a time when the entire international community is deeply concerned about the critical economic and political conditions in Africa as a whole. Our Secretary-General has openly expressed his deep concern for the problems of Africa and the need for this body to give them its urgent consideration. At its fiftieth session, the General Assembly must act in concert with the Secretary-General in giving high priority to programmes of action for African recovery and development. The United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s must be pursued urgently and vigorously. In this anniversary year, Saint Lucia will pursue a conscious policy of establishing 7 diplomatic relations with a number of African countries, with a view not only to stimulating trade and cultural exchanges, but, indeed, to recovering and stimulating that vital interchange of ideas. Saint Lucia is strongly supportive of the peace process in the Middle East, which started with the signing on 4 May 1994 of the first implementation agreement of the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government between the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. The second phase of the agreement was signed on 28 September this year. The agreement between Israel and Jordan has deepened the process considerably. It is our fervent hope that the skirmishes between the Palestinians and the Israelis will not derail the peace process in the Middle East. We further urge the countries of the region to adhere to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons for the long-term stability and development of the region. In preceding sessions of the Assembly, my country has drawn attention to the Republic of China on Taiwan’s request to take its rightful place within this family of nations. Our support for this request in no way implies an attack on the sovereignty of the People’s Republic of China, nor is it meant to vitiate the intention of resolution 2758 (XXVI). My country is acutely aware of the need to protect the fundamental principles of our institutions, but it is not beyond the creativity of the Assembly to play a catalyst role in resolving the impasse between the Republic of China and the People’s Republic of China. Recent military manoeuvres in the Taiwan Straits provide an eerie warning of the possibility of deteriorating relations between the two countries. The Assembly should not wash its hands of the issues like Pilate, but should exhaust the possibilities of preventive diplomacy rather than live to bemoan the tragedy of inaction. Saint Lucia continues to be of the view that Taiwan’s presence in the United Nations will help to further the goals and ideals of our Organization. Saint Lucia’s support for Taiwan’s bid for a seat in this body is in the knowledge that this does not preclude the eventuality of reunification. As we stand on the threshold of a new century, at the very same time as we are presented with an anniversary opportunity to look back on a half-century of United Nations activity, two vital processes loom large in the perception of small States. These processes are disarmament and decolonization. It is our wish that the process of arms reduction continue to gain momentum and to stabilize at a level that will ensure the easing of tensions and conflicts whenever and wherever they are waged around the globe. Attention must be focused on those countries which devote large slices of their national budgets to arms purchases and production while numerous areas of the world languish in poverty and disease. Civil and external wars could occur in regions where the possession of advanced weaponry, such as medium-range missiles with chemical, biological or even nuclear warheads, by ambitious and threatened regimes becomes a potentially lethal prospect. The search for peace is the most compelling rationale for the existence of the United Nations, and the indefinite extension of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, together with complete disarmament and the total eradication of chemical weapons, will be the greatest global contribution to a new world order. Saint Lucia has already ratified the Treaty of Tlatelolco for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean. With regard to the process of decolonization, the target date of the year 2000 set by the United Nations for the total eradication of colonialism is to be borne in mind. In this context, the United Nations should continue to promote the idea that referendums and other forms of popular consultation on the future status of the Non-Self- Governing Territories are appropriate means of ascertaining the wishes of the people in this matter. As the United Nations has grown in scope and complexity over these past 50 years, so too have the problems and complexities assumed new dimensions. We have seen floods of refugees escaping civil wars all over the globe, but now we are faced with the prospect of environmental refugees fleeing from disaster areas and natural catastrophes. Without wishing to sound like a prophet of doom, I must say that the possible effect of global warming upon agriculture in the developing world is a further cause of concern. In recent months we have faced the relentless fury of hurricanes, rising sea levels and, in the case of Montserrat, one of our small Caribbean island neighbours, the threat of volcanic eruption. We appreciate that these unfolding problems have not escaped the attention of the United Nations. The forty-second session of the General Assembly designated the 1990s as the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, and a Plan of Action was adopted in May 1994 by the World Conference on Natural Disaster Reduction. Our small countries view the transfer of 8 technology in respect of early warning systems, monitoring devices and up-to-date research on safer construction methods as a matter of urgent priority. While we are grateful for the short-term assistance given to such disaster areas, it is vital that we should also focus on the long-term goals of preparedness and prevention. The question of equitable representation and an increase in the membership of the Security Council was included in the agenda of the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly, in 1979, the same year Saint Lucia joined this Organization, and the same year that the membership of the United Nations was tripled, from 51 original members to 152 members. During the 16 years since 1979 we have been calling for an increase in the membership of the Security Council, especially of developing countries, to reflect the increased membership of the United Nations and the reality of its composition. Repetition is necessary to emphasize the importance of the point that the policy-making arm of the United Nations should reflect the diversity and universality of the membership of this body and uphold the principle of equitable representation that the Charter embodies. Saint Lucia continues to support the recommendation that the relationship between the General Assembly and the Security Council should be strengthened. We also support the view that the process of briefing and consultation should be institutionalized, that the privilege of veto should be phased out and that the efforts at developing greater transparency and predictability should continue. Saint Lucia will work with and support the efforts of our regional group and of the Non-Aligned Movement to achieve these objectives. It is our hope that, in this fiftieth year, we shall exercise the courage and willingness needed to bring about the overdue changes and reform of the Council. Saint Lucia has taken the opportunity of the fiftieth anniversary to reflect deeply on the role of small marginalized States in the family of nations. We have endured the ravages of a colonial past, been exploited by multinational corporations, divided by the sea and hamstrung by a desperate shortage of resources. Today a new vision unfolds. We cannot hope to conquer worlds as the early Conquistadors did. There are no worlds to conquer, but worlds to recreate. In this recreation of the post-cold-war world, there are disappearing divisions between States once sworn enemies in a drive to adjust to the dictates of the new world economic order. The interdependence of nations is highlighted against the background of diseases which threaten the world, and the potential for destruction of the very environment which guarantees the survival of mankind. These problems to be resolved must be approached through the collective means available within this body. However, solutions to be effective must take account of differences in size, in resources and in the cultural diversity of those who are to benefit from them. Practicality must take precedence over mere dogma, and idealism must not be allowed to lose ground to a narrowness of realism that pays little heed to circumstances. Saint Lucia sees the United Nations as a solid bulwark for the creation of a new order. Its commitment to world peace, human rights, gender equality, racial equality and sustainable development for the peoples of the world is the touchstone of our aspirations. My country stands prepared to assist in the retooling and reshaping of the organs of the United Nations to enable it to face the global challenges which lie ahead of us. These challenges are as demanding of Member States as they are of the organs of the United Nations. Our focus will be to work in concert with our colleagues in the Caribbean Community and our colleagues in the Association of Caribbean States to increase our efficiency and productivity with a view to playing a full role in the international arena. We will explore with other Member States ideas for fostering a new ethos in the international forum, in which size, wealth and influence will be subordinated to the concourse of ideas. Finally, Saint Lucia will endeavour to join the global search for a more relevant and edifying system of values which will inspire generations of young people to embrace the concerns which five decades ago motivated the founding fathers of this noble Organization. We were deeply shocked when we heard about the earthquake that took place last night in the Republic of Indonesia. On behalf of the Government and people of Suriname I offer our deepest sympathy to the victims and their families on this sad occasion. On behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Suriname, may I first warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your unanimous and well-deserved election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. We have no doubt that under your distinguished leadership and with your experience this session will achieve its aims. As you preside over our deliberations at this crucial juncture in history, you can be assured of our wholehearted cooperation as you fulfil your task. Permit me also to express our gratitude to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for the very able and competent manner in which he presided over the forty-ninth session. May I also take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, for the exemplary manner in which he is fulfilling his tasks during these challenging times. He deserves our admiration and gratitude for the important role he plays in guiding this unique world Organization. I am especially pleased and honoured to greet Palau as a new Member of the United Nations family. Suriname is looking forward to close cooperation with this friendly nation in our common efforts to attain the noble goals of the United Nations Charter. Before I continue, I should like to express the feelings of sincere sympathy of the Government and people of the Republic of Suriname for the Governments and peoples of Antigua and Barbuda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Dominica, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and other territories in the Caribbean for the great destruction sadly caused by Hurricanes Luis and Marilyn. We are living in an era in which the ending of the cold war has removed the risk of a nuclear nightmare and has given us hope that a new atmosphere of cooperation between States will emerge. If we could show the necessary political will, this new atmosphere should provide us, now and in the coming decades, with a unique opportunity to focus our attention on the solution of many problems, problems which pose serious threats to international peace and security and which hamper efforts to achieve sustained economic growth and sustainable development. In some instances the international community has made good use of these changing circumstances and has found common approaches to problems affecting us all. Experience during the last few years, however, has revealed that our world is still characterized by unfairness and injustice, and that the gap between the developed countries and the majority of developing countries is widening. As a result the number of countries in crisis or in near crisis is increasing. Consequently, political instability, an increase in extreme poverty, social exclusion and social disintegration are on the rise in many developing countries, causing despair and endangering peace and security both nationally and internationally. The developing world has on many occasions underlined the need to pay particular attention to the elimination of the ever-widening gap between the countries of the North and those of the South and to the establishment of a new equitable and just international economic order. During several specifically focused international conferences organized by the United Nations, an appeal has been made to the developed countries to fulfil their obligations to meet official development assistance targets and to help to create an international economic and political climate conducive to sustained economic growth in developing countries. Unfortunately, the response to our appeal has not fully met our expectations. It will therefore remain our priority to continue with concerted efforts to convince our developed partners that honouring their commitments and creating favourable economic conditions are also in their own interest, because there will be no durable peace and stability in the world as long as the majority of the world’s population cannot fulfil its basic needs. Another disturbing event on the present international scene is the eruption and spread of many serious violent conflicts and the increasing danger to international peace and security which these conflicts harbour. Such is the case as we witness the prolonged violent action in former Yugoslavia. These conflicts are the cause of terrible tragedy, as is evidenced by the extermination of tens of thousands of people, the casualties suffered by the civilian population, the destruction of the economic and social infrastructure, the displacement of people from their homes, and the lack of shelter, food and medical facilities. Finding a solution to these conflicts which will serve the common interests of all parties involved will remain a major challenge for the United Nations. A few days ago the warring parties in the former Yugoslavia signed an agreement which we hope will signal the beginning of the end of the tragic war being waged in that area. We appeal in the strongest terms to all parties involved to take advantage of this momentum and engage in meaningful negotiations in order to reach a peaceful settlement which will silence the guns now and for all time. 2 In Mozambique, Angola and, recently, Palestine we have found proof that seemingly sworn enemies can resolve their differences through peaceful means. The Government of Suriname is therefore very pleased with the recently concluded accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and commends both for their efforts to restore peace in the Middle East. We know that the healing process will be slow and that there are many obstacles to overcome, but we are sure that peace will finally prevail over violence, chaos and misery. The accelerated globalization of the world economy, dynamized by a technological revolution during the course of the last decade, has led to important changes in production structures and world trade. These changes affect the terms of trade of many developing countries. Other developments, such as the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations and the emergence of mega-trading blocs and free trade zones, have led to changes in the political and economic thinking in our region in the search for new ways of adapting to these shifting circumstances. The recent formation of the Association of Caribbean States and the decision by the countries of the Western hemisphere to create a continental free-trade zone by the year 2005 can be seen as proof of a very strong commitment to regional cooperation by our respective Governments. To further our commitment to regional cooperation, the Government of Suriname took two steps of historic significance: Suriname became the fourteenth member State of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) in July and was a co-founder of the Association of Caribbean States. Suriname is ready to make its contribution in these regional bodies in order to attain economic prosperity for its people and to preserve and strengthen its democratic traditions and values. Just a few years ago, at the Rio Conference, we, the Member countries of the United Nations, established as a primary concern the need to ensure a rational balance between realizing legitimate national goals and safeguarding the well-being of future generations through the protection of the world’s natural resources. Furthermore, we promoted the awareness that development must be sustainable and that sustainability requires due attention to both environmental and economic and social factors. The need to achieve economic development on terms compatible with the conservation of the environment is a priority objective for my country. Suriname is blessed with an impressive, rich tropical rain forest covering approximately 80 per cent of its total territory. This makes our forest one of the main natural resources for fostering development and guaranteeing welfare and prosperity for our people. Hence, the exploitation and alternative uses of the forest have always been among our primary economic activities. My Government promotes sustainable management of the forest, which allows for its economic utilization, but at the same time our primary concern is to ensure a rational balance between our legitimate socio-economic goals and the protection of the health and well-being of future generations. Within our limited technological capabilities, we are trying to fulfil our obligations to preserve the biological wealth of the forest. Our responsibility and commitment in this area are reflected in my Government’s policy of stringent protection for approximately 1 million hectares of forest. This is accomplished through the creation of 13 nature reserves and one national park and through additional plans to add half a million hectares of forest to the nature reserves in the short term. Hence, in the near future, 10 per cent of all Surinamese territory will be protected. Another important step taken by the Government in the sphere of sustainable use of the forest, guaranteeing the preservation of biodiversity, is evidenced by the National Assembly’s ratification in July 1995, of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity. Furthermore, the results of the recently concluded negotiations with potential investors will be submitted to our National Assembly for approval. In accordance with the agreements reached, our forest will be exploited only according to the so-called Celos management system, as developed in Suriname and accepted internationally as the best form of forest management. I should not fail to share with the Assembly our concerns over the problem of illicit traffic in drugs, especially since we, unfortunately, as a transit country, have attracted much of this unlawful and damaging trade as a consequence of our service economy, the present financial and economic crisis and our geographical situation. Illicit traffic in drugs poses special security problems for countries like ours, with hundreds of miles of unguarded shorelines and inadequate resources to match the super-modern equipment to which drug traffickers have access. Because of its operational methods, which 3 have no regard for frontiers, this form of modern aggression has become one of the most serious types of international crime. It must be combated in all its various phases and manifestations. Recent drug enforcement operations in our region have shown that firm action in the struggle against drug trafficking at the national level can be successful and that with concerted action it is possible to break up the main networks of drug traffickers. Indeed, this success stands out as a ray of optimism and hope, overcoming the temptation to yield to discouragement and pessimism in this area. Unfortunately, it is not enough for one country or a few countries to be victorious because drug trafficking is an international crime which threatens mankind in every corner of the world. It is capable of offsetting the efforts of Governments to eradicate this scourge. Moreover, it is linked to activities such as arms trafficking and terrorism, while its repercussions are no longer merely social and economic but pose serious threats to political and social stability. However, to eradicate this multifaceted scourge once and for all, we need — now more than ever — enhanced regional and international cooperation that is effective and constructive and that complements the efforts of individual countries. My country will persist in the struggle against illicit drug trafficking because this struggle represents a moral commitment, not only to the Surinamese people but to all people, especially to the children and young people, affected by this scourge. The experience gained by the Government of Suriname in the field of development cooperation reveals the supportive role of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations Development Fund for Women and other agencies in the development efforts of Suriname. Recently, our per capita income and the adjustment of the indicative planning figure for 1995 and 1996 were revised by UNDP. That revision offered us substantive additional support for the implementation of activities planned within the framework of the national development strategy, in particular effective activities related to the structural adjustment programme, the public sector reform programme and the regional integration programme. On behalf of the Government and people of Suriname, we would like to express our gratitude to the Secretary-General and his staff for their efforts to promote greater involvement of the United Nations in fostering development in Suriname. We are looking forward to the continuation and enhancement of closer cooperation with the operational arms of the United Nations system. Suriname is aware of the need to make the United Nations an effective instrument for the international community in the quest for sustainable development and durable international peace and security.To this end, the finances of this world body should be streamlined but, above all, the restructuring efforts should reflect today’s international economic and political realities. In this regard, Suriname favours the enlargement of the Security Council as regards both permanent and non-permanent members. The increase in the number of permanent members should not however involve developed countries only. Hence we support expansion through the inclusion of permanent members selected also from developing countries which are able to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security and which have already expressed their desire to become permanent members of the Security Council. Suriname became the 144th Member of the United Nations family in November 1975. This year we will celebrate the twentieth anniversary of our independence and also the twentieth anniversary of our membership of this world body. Twenty years of experience as an independent nation and as a Member of the United Nations have revealed to us that the principles enshrined in the Charter still remain the cornerstone in relations between States. My country has therefore on various occasions pledged its commitment to the observance of these principles. In the past, even before we gained independence, citizens from Suriname were called upon to defend these principles — in some cases, regrettably, with their lives. Today, on behalf of the Government and people of Suriname, on the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, I would like to acknowledge the valuable contribution that these brave men and women have made to the maintenance of international peace and security. At present, Suriname is part of the efforts by the international community, through the United Nations, to restore order and democracy and to foster prosperity in Haiti. 4 When called upon to do so, Suriname will always contribute, through the United Nations, to the endeavours of the international community to make our world a better place in which to live. Mr. President, please allow me, first of all, to warmly congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that with your remarkable ability and rich experience, you will admirably fulfil this mission. I would also like to express my appreciation and thanks to Mr. Amara Essy for the important contribution he has made during his presidency. I wish to avail myself of this opportunity to extend my welcome and congratulations to the Republic of Palau, which was admitted into the United Nations after the last session. This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War and the founding of the United Nations. Over the past 50 years, the United Nations has stood the test of the vicissitudes in the international situation, grown steadily, scored remarkable achievements and made major contributions to the peace and prosperity of mankind. Its membership has increased from 51 at its founding to today’s 185. The status and role of the United Nations, the most universal and authoritative intergovernmental organization of sovereign States today, is irreplaceable by any other international organization. The United Nations has traversed a tortuous and uneven path over the past fifty years, just like the development of anything else. On the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, it is time to review the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, earnestly summarize the positive and negative experience, and introduce appropriate and necessary reforms so as to revitalize the United Nations and usher it into the new century with a new look to meet the challenge of the times. This is the call of all peoples and a lofty mission of the times. The United Nations, which was founded in the triumph of the world war against fascism, reflects the ardent desire and determination of the world’s people to avert the scourge of war forever, safeguard world peace and security, carry out friendly international cooperation 9 and achieve common development. History has repeatedly proved that adherence to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter will enable the United Nations to play a positive role in safeguarding peace and promoting development, while violation of and departure from the purposes and principles of the Charter will impair the dignity and image of the United Nations and weaken its role. Therefore, to continue to uphold and carry forward the purposes and principles of the Charter is an unshirkable responsibility of all United Nations Members and a basic principle guiding the reform of the United Nations. The core of the United Nations Charter is the principle of equality between sovereign States and non-interference in each other’s internal affairs. All sovereign States, whether they are big or small, rich or poor, strong or weak, are equal members of the international community. The internal affairs of a country should be managed by its own people. Major world affairs should be addressed by countries through consultations on the basis of equality and mutual respect. In international relations, to bully the small, oppress the poor, override the weak, impose one’s own social system, ideology and values on others or interfere in other countries’ internal affairs all run counter to the spirit of the United Nations Charter. Some people are publicly clamouring for “containment” of other countries, which shows that the cold war mentality still refuses to quit the stage of history. But it will ultimately be discarded by history. The post-war period of half a century proves that in handling State-to-State relations, “hot war”, “cold war” or “bloc politics” do not work. Strict observance of the principles of mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, non-interference in each other’s internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit and peaceful coexistence are the only way for States to live in amity with each other and achieve common development. Since the last session of the General Assembly, thanks to the joint efforts of various quarters, the tendency towards the peaceful settlement of disputes through negotiations has grown and international economic cooperation has gained momentum. However, there still remain many destabilizing and uncertain factors in the international situation. Hegemonism and power politics continue to hold out. Peace and development, the two major tasks of the world today, still face grave challenges. Armed conflicts and catastrophic wars in some parts of the world remain unabated, which has not only inflicted heavy losses of life and property on the countries and peoples concerned, but also casts a shadow over regional peace and stability and that of the whole world. All this cannot but cause concern and distress among the world’s people. As the background and causes behind these conflicts are complicated, to seek a just, fair and appropriate solution to them would call for tremendous and concerted efforts by all the parties concerned, the United Nations and the international community as a whole. We maintain that the parties concerned should, in the fundamental and long-term interests of the people, seek just and fair solutions through negotiations, taking into full account both history and reality as well as the reasonable interests and positions of all sides. Where consensus cannot be reached immediately, the parties concerned should exercise restraint and patience so as to prevent contradictions from intensifying and at the same time try to create conditions and an atmosphere for an eventual peaceful settlement. United Nations peace-keeping operations in recent years have played a useful role in settling international disputes peacefully. They have both accumulated successful experience and learned lessons from setbacks. We believe that, to ensure a healthy development of United Nations peace-keeping operations and activities in other related fields such as preventive diplomacy, the following guidelines should be established and followed: Observation of the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, in particular the principle of respect for State sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries; Settlement of disputes through peaceful means such as good offices, mediation and negotiations instead of resort to frequent mandatory actions. Even humanitarian operations should not resort to military means; Opposition to double standards and the imposition of the policies and views of one or a few countries on the Security Council. Some countries should not be allowed to carry out military intervention in the name of the United Nations; For peace-keeping operations, adherence to the principles that have proved effective, such as obtaining prior consent from the parties concerned, observing strict neutrality and the non-use of force except for self- defence; Adoption of a realistic approach and confining the operation within one’s capability. Peace-keeping operations should be launched only when conditions are ripe and should refrain, in whatever circumstances, from 10 becoming a party to a conflict in deviation from the fundamental orientation of such operations. It has been demonstrated time and again that United Nations peace-keeping operations, if divorced from these guidelines, would, contrary to our wishes, fail to achieve their desired objectives and might even go astray. Last May, the Review and Extension Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) adopted the decision to renew the NPT indefinitely. This serves the interests of all signatories, helps to strengthen the international non-proliferation regime and is conducive to the maintenance of world peace and security. China believes that nuclear non-proliferation is only an interim step towards the ultimate goal of the complete prohibition and total destruction of nuclear weapons. The indefinite extension of the NPT must not be construed as an indefinite license for the nuclear-weapon States to perpetuate their prerogatives. One year ago, also from this rostrum, on behalf of the Chinese Government I called for the conclusion of a convention on the complete prohibition of nuclear weapons and put forward a series of complete and interrelated proposals on nuclear disarmament. We are pleased to note that the negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty have produced some gratifying progress. China supports the conclusion of such a treaty no later than 1996 and will continue to work with other countries to this end. Once the treaty enters into force, China will stop its nuclear testing. China’s possession of a limited nuclear capability is entirely for self-defence and for deterring the nuclear threat against it. The Chinese Government has from the very beginning unilaterally undertaken not to be the first to use nuclear weapons at any time and under any circumstances and not to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear-weapon States. China’s nuclear weapons therefore do not constitute a threat to any country. We strongly urge other nuclear-weapon States to respond positively to China’s initiative by immediately starting negotiations aimed at concluding a treaty on mutual non- first-use of nuclear weapons and an agreement on the non- use or non-threat of use of nuclear weapons against non- nuclear-weapon States and nuclear-free zones. It has become a trend in today’s world that when countries formulate their domestic and foreign policies they accord top priority to the economy and pay close attention to national economic development. The worldwide tendency towards economic integration, regionalization and the formation of economic groupings has accelerated, and competition among States in the economic, trade, scientific and technological fields has further intensified. Under such circumstances, the developing countries are faced with a formidable challenge as they strive for economic growth and higher living standards for their people. Furthermore, over 1 billion people on this planet remain in abject poverty; this constitutes one of the world community’s most acute problems. Given much-needed support to the developing countries as they reactivate their economies and creating a favourable external environment for them are not only important conditions for the shared economic growth and common prosperity of all countries, but also a crucial guarantee for lasting peace and stability throughout the world. Given the present situation, the United Nations should ask itself to pay at least as much attention to development as to peace, effectively perform its duties under the Charter and play a more dynamic role in galvanizing economic growth and development in the developing countries. The reform of the United Nations must result in the strengthening, not the weakening, of its role in the area of development. True, fairly rapid economic growth in the developing countries must depend primarily on their own efforts. However, it is also important for the international community, and the developed countries in particular, to take practical and effective measures to open markets, provide development funds, transfer technology, increase development aid and reduce the debt burden in favour of the developing countries. International economic cooperation should be guided by the principle of mutual opening-up, equality and mutual benefit. Such practices as implementing protectionist policies of one form or another and attaching political strings to economic assistance to developing countries are obviously misguided. Profound changes have taken place in China amid the surging tide of change and development across the world. The 17 years that have elapsed since the beginning of reform and opening-up in China have been unprecedented in terms of the economic growth rate and the improvement of the people’s living standards. At present, China enjoys political stability, economic prosperity, ethnic harmony and vigorous advances in democracy, legality and community undertakings. China’s exchanges and cooperation with the rest of the world have reached a level unprecedented in both scope and depth. Although there may still be many difficulties and challenges along the road ahead, we are confident that, 11 through several generations of hard work, our people will lift China out of economic and cultural backwardness and turn it into a highly prosperous and democratic modern country. The Chinese people are peace-loving people. China’s history for over a century following the Opium War was one of tears, blood and humiliation in which the Chinese nation was subjected to repeated aggression, suppression and plunder at the hands of the big Powers. Do unto others as you would have others do unto you. The Chinese people treasure their hard-won independence and freedom and will never commit aggression or intervene against others. China is opposed to hegemonism and power politics of any kind and will never seek hegemony for itself. With a population of 1.2 billion, China will remain a low-income developing country for a very long time and the steady improvement of our people’s living standards will remain our objective, towards the attainment of which no effort will be spared. Even when China grows stronger, it will continue firmly to pursue its independent foreign policy of peace and will live in amity with other nations. A stable and prosperous China is a positive factor for peace and development in Asia and the world at large. This is a conclusion that people of vision around the world have come to share. The Chinese people have waged heroic and unyielding struggles to resist external aggression and oppression and to defend the sovereignty, independence and unity of the country. There is but one China in the world. The Government of the People’s Republic of China is the sole legal Government of China. It is the sole representative of China at the United Nations, and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China. The peaceful reunification of the two sides of the Taiwan Straits represents the unshakable will and determination of the entire Chinese people, including our compatriots in Taiwan. Proceeding from this reality, the Chinese Government has put forward the correct proposal on peaceful reunification within the framework of the concept of “one country, two systems” and a series of realistic and practicable policies and measures. The past few years have seen a steady expansion and deepening of exchanges and contacts between the two sides in various fields. Any attempt to obstruct peaceful reunification and to split Taiwan from China is doomed to failure. Should anyone try to do so, he would be lifting a stone only to drop it on his own toes. History moves on. Mankind is progressing. In four years we will usher in a new millennium. The future is full of promise. Let us join hands and make concerted efforts to bring about a better world in which there are peace and cooperation, justice and equality, mutual respect and common development, a world of universal prosperity and continuous progress. As we will soon be commemorating half a century of United Nations work, may I start by presenting warm fiftieth- anniversary greetings from Brunei Darussalam to all our fellow Members. Also, before commenting on our present situation, I would like to take this brief opportunity to thank two groups of people who do not receive much publicity and who I hope will not be overlooked in the general celebration. First, I think it would be most appropriate at this time to mention those who have served this Organization in the field as representatives of our various agencies or as part of our peace-keeping operations and special missions. Their work has always been at the heart of United Nations efforts. It has given people throughout the world a chance to look ahead with hope, and we wish all who are engaged in this work much continued success. At the same time, I would like to look outside our Organization and thank our hosts. Here I am referring to the people of New York and all the other cities around 20 the world who for 50 years have accepted the demanding responsibility of being a United Nations venue. Their support and good will have been crucial, and I would like to say how much we appreciate this. With that, may I now turn to current business and offer the President my congratulations on his election. I am sure he will guide us well during what we hope will be a most successful year. I would also like to thank the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for his contribution to our work over the past year and to convey my best wishes to the Secretary-General and his staff. Given all the recent changes which have taken place in world affairs, our fiftieth anniversary comes at a critical period. I would therefore like to offer a few thoughts on the approach we in Brunei Darussalam would like to see the United Nations taking in the future. Fifty years ago, at the first session of the General Assembly, President Truman’s opening address described the purpose of the United Nations as being “to provide the means for maintaining international peace in the future”. (Official Records of the General Assembly, First Session, Plenary Meetings, 34th meeting, p. 682) The approach the United Nations took at that time was successful. It certainly stopped great Powers from making war on each other in Europe. However, it also led to the cold war. This is now over, but it seems to have left behind a situation in which there is great potential for instability in the rest of the world. Much of this, of course, is the result of the changes which have taken place in 50 years. The centres of power have moved, and the danger spots have shifted. We all depend on each other a lot more for peace, security and development. The changes are so profound that many of us feel they may call for an equally profound reform of this Organization. Brunei Darussalam is a fairly new Member, but we tend to think there is a strong case for this. We believe the United Nations has to adapt to change. We also hope this can be done soon. The future could hold some very serious problems, and they will require a United Nations which is well prepared to handle them. The very worrying signs of what could lie ahead are already quite clear. There are humanitarian problems on a vast scale. We face social and environmental issues which affect the whole world. There is instability in world financial affairs. Trade disputes disrupt the peaceful conduct of international commerce. There is also what we believe is the most serious concern of all: the development gap between the North and the South is growing wider and wider. This all means that the United Nations has an extremely challenging agenda as it starts out on the next 50 years of its existence. An international situation now exists in which it is essential that we recognize the stake each of us has in the welfare of all the others. We all have to reaffirm our commitment to working very closely together as United Nations Members. So perhaps the most encouraging feature of international affairs today is that in every part of the world countries are trying very hard indeed to respond to this new challenge. I also think it is fair to say that whatever can be done by individual countries or regional association is being attempted. Having said that, however, I must add that there is one thing we cannot do: no country or regional group on its own can make the whole world stable and peaceful. For this, we rely on the United Nations. It is the only mechanism which can deal with the basic causes of instability. Therefore, I would like to suggest that this is the most important responsibility of the United Nations today. If it is to carry it out successfully, however, I also suggest that there are a number of useful lessons to be learned from recent experiences. The first of these arises from the crisis faced by the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina since 1991. Certainly, we are pleased to see welcome signs of hope in that country. However, I think it will be very difficult for most of us to forget how badly United Nations personnel have been treated. Nor do we wish ever again to experience the frustration we have felt over our representatives’ inability to implement Security Council resolutions. The Bosnian tragedy has obviously raised a great number of questions. But, above all, I feel, we have been taught one extremely important thing: if the United Nations is to be involved in a future situation like this, its 21 representatives must be given all the resources they need, so that they can carry out their tasks effectively. A second lesson can be drawn, from the Middle East. We are still hopeful that the peace process there will reach a just and comprehensive conclusion. However, what has been shown in Palestine is what was also evident in Cambodia: peace negotiations and even peace treaties require more than just formal recognition by the international community; practical assistance from us all is needed if the result is to be lasting peace. The third recent lesson I see for us lies in recognizing to the full that the end of the cold war has made us aware of many other aspects of security which lie deeper than just military defence. Next year, we hope that a comprehensive test ban treaty will be in effect. Among other things, it would be a most appropriate way to acknowledge the reminders we have had this year of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. But it should also mean that everyone accepts that it is unthinkable for nuclear weapons ever to be used again. The ultimate aim now is the abolition of all such weapons. If this is indeed accepted, then the idea of nuclear weapons as a deterrent cannot be logically sustained; nor can the need to continue testing such weapons. Instead, the logic of the post cold war period applies and leads us to the more modern concept of security. In other words, we should be doing everything we can to take advantage of the peace dividend and work together to solve the great environmental, social and economic challenges we all face. There is one more lesson I believe this early post cold war period has taught us. It is perhaps the most urgent of all. This is that the increasing gap between the North and the South in terms of development and the possibility of making progress must be closed. The Secretary-General has suggested an important shift in emphasis for the United Nations — from politics to global economic development. I think the Secretary-General is quite right. It is essential that the United Nations move in this direction. Peace-keeping, though much valued, is a costly, short-term response to global peace. The longer-term solution is widespread economic development. What we do ask, however, is that this be done urgently as time is not on the side of developing nations. We naturally cannot predict what form the United Nations will take in the next half century of its existence. One thing, however, is beyond question, I feel: the world is even more than ever in need of the moral force of United Nations principles to guide it. May I assure you, Mr. President, that in its efforts to remain strong and effective and credible, the United Nations has the lasting support and commitment of the Government and the people of Brunei Darussalam. It is my pleasure to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. The Barbados delegation shares the confidence expressed in your leadership, and offers our full cooperation as you preside over the deliberations of this landmark event. I also commend your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, not only for his outstanding stewardship of the Assembly during the last year, but for the vision and direction he has given to the ongoing work designed to fashion the United Nations of the twenty-first century. Let me also take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to a fellow member of small island developing States, the Republic of Palau, whose admission to the United Nations took place in December 1994. Fifty years ago, the United Nations rose from the ashes of a devastating world war. Understandably, the Organization was shaped and influenced by the experience of that war and by the coalition of Powers that prevailed in 1945. It also grew to reflect the forces underpinning the post-war system of international relations — a system characterized by that paralysis of international political will known as the cold war. Yet, to its credit, the United Nations has fostered remarkable progress on such vital issues as decolonization, development and human rights, as well as on a wide array of international standards, which we have come to take for granted. Through its extensive network of organs and specialized agencies, the United Nations system has made tangible and lasting improvements in the lives of men, women and children all over the world. But that old order has come to an end, and we face anew a world of tumultuous global change. Barbados sees this world through the eyes of a member of the small island developing States — joint products of decolonization and the relative geopolitical stability that the United Nations has ensured since our independence. As a group, we have had mixed success in transforming the legacies of colonial tutelage into genuine and sustained development for our peoples. As small and fragile members of the global community, we are constantly reminded of our own economic and political vulnerability. For us, what happens outside our borders, beyond our control, whether man- made or natural, sometimes has more impact on our way of life than anything we may do at home. One hurricane can wipe out, in a matter of hours, an entire small island economy. Only three weeks ago, Hurricane Luis wrought such devastation on a number of our Caribbean neighbours, causing major set-backs in their economic development. We extend our sincere sympathy to our brothers and sisters at this time of distress. Barbados is cooperating fully with others in helping to restore normal life to these Caribbean Member States. For small island States, how we recover from disasters such as this, and perhaps more important, how we work towards ensuring that we make ourselves less vulnerable: these are paramount to our survival. Clearly, short-term assistance and the sympathy of the international community, while crucial, are not enough. Small size also means that our entire society, not just areas of it, is equally vulnerable to dislocations of the global economic system, including currency and 6 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 commodity price fluctuations, new international trading arrangements, and the changing fortunes of the major industrial economies. Notwithstanding these natural or man-made constraints, many small island States, including my own, have achieved rising per capita incomes and improved human development indicators but such indices provide only an approximate measure of the present, based on the past. They do not, and cannot, measure our vulnerability, the resilience or lack of resilience of our economies and entire societies in the face of natural disasters and rapid global economic change. It is in this broad context that Barbados has given the highest importance to the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which my country had the honour to host last year. The Programme of Action, adopted by consensus, underscores the role which the stewardship of small island States plays in the preservation of the global commons. We urge international action to step up the support pledged in the Declaration of Barbados and the Programme of Action. My delegation therefore calls for the steady implementation of the commitments and recommendations contained in General Assembly resolution 49/122 of 19 December 1994. As a small vulnerable State, Barbados views some areas of the global political scene with deep concern. Following the end of the cold war, the people of the world yearn for an era of peace and economic prosperity — but peace, so far, has proved elusive. The outbreak of violence and ethnic strife has reached unspeakable levels of human suffering, taxing the capacity of the United Nations support system to the limit. In the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the large majority of Member States looks on in agony and helplessness at a crisis which has called into question the very credibility of the Organization and the integrity of its peace-keeping function. We recall words of the late Sir Winston Churchill today: But Bosnia has not been the United Nations “finest hour”. But let us not forget that the United Nations is no more, no less, than the collective will of the Governments it serves. For vulnerable small States, United Nations protection is critical. Developing countries, particularly those least able to afford it, bring no influence to bear on major peace- keeping decisions, yet must pay their assessed share of peace-keeping costs, diverting scarce resources from the development effort. Barbados welcomes the encouraging signs which have recently emerged from the peace process between the parties of former Yugoslavia, and hopes that an end could be soon brought to the strife and bloodshed in this war-torn region. Barbados shares the anguish of the people in the strife-torn countries of Africa, in particular, Rwanda, Burundi, Liberia, and in similar areas of conflict around the world, and hopes for early progress towards lasting peace in those areas. At the same time, we welcome the positive developments in the peace process in Angola and that between Israel and Palestine. We hope that a peaceful and durable settlement to the problems elsewhere in the Middle East may soon be reached. In Haiti, where democracy is beginning to take root, Barbados is proud to have participated in the multilateral initiatives and mission which resulted in the return of Haiti’s democratically elected government. The return of President Aristide underscores this continuing success and this continuing process. Haiti is a prime example of a vulnerable small island State receiving, at long last, the support and protection needed from its neighbours and the international community. Much still needs to be done if Haiti’s recovery and development, long neglected in the face of political turmoil, are to be assured. We urge the international community to stay the course with Haiti. We know that progress will be uneven, but we applaud the Government’s commitment to the democratic process. Haiti is a Caribbean country with which Barbados shares strong bonds of history and culture. The Haitian people can be assured of our support in their struggle to nurture its fledgling democracy, and improve the economic and social conditions of its people. Barbados applauded the decision of the United Nations last May when it extended indefinitely, the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). But now the spirit of this agreement has become a casualty of recent events. Barbados deeply regrets the decision by some States to resume nuclear testing, which runs counter to the spirit of the NPT and the commitment by nuclear weapons States to exercise the utmost restraint, pending entry into force of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. As a small island developing State and a non- nuclear-weapon State, Barbados has a vested interest in the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the disarmament of existing nuclear stockpiles. Barbados therefore supports the moratorium on the testing of nuclear weapons in place, and urges nuclear 7 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 Powers to heed the call by the international community to refrain from any activity that violates the spirit of the Treaty. As an island State whose people depend on the sea for a large part of their livelihood, Barbados is gravely concerned about the potential danger to its fragile marine ecosystems. We are therefore implacably opposed to the transshipment of nuclear materials and hazardous wastes through the Caribbean basin. International terrorism, transnational crime, drug trafficking and money-laundering, are matters of grave global concern, particularly to a small country like Barbados. The destabilizing threat of related cartels to the democratic order in small States is particularly serious. While Barbados has been put on full alert, we recognize our limited capacity to effectively police our own borders. We deeply appreciate the bilateral assistance in this area, and will continue to work closely with other regional partners and related international bodies to combat this global cancer. The year 1995 is a special one for the United Nations. It is a year for solemn reflection on the mission and achievements of the Organization, and for new directions to meet the challenges ahead. The world we face is characterized by increasing globalization of production, liberalization of trade, and an explosion of information technology. Increasingly, States find themselves restricted in their capacity to control or influence the flow of international capital, other than by providing hospitable conditions to attract it. Moreover, there is an emerging consensus on the reordering of the role of the State in economic development, in the direct creation of wealth and in the complementary nature of the public and private sectors. A significant feature of this changed world is the emergence of non-governmental organizations as a major influence in domestic and international public policy. Barbados welcomes this participatory power of civil society, which has deepened and enriched the debate on international issues and helped shape the global agenda to better reflect the popular will. The framers of the Charter demonstrated this foresight in the Preamble, not with the words “We the Governments”, but with the words “We the peoples”. And as we approach the new millennium, the slow but sure triumph of peoples over institutions is becoming increasingly evident. An appreciation and analysis of these global changes is critical to a reformed United Nations if it is to meet the challenge of the twenty-first century while remaining faithful to the original ideals of the Charter. But good governance still is, and always will be, the best instrument for the expression of the popular will. Government is, after all, when exercised responsibly and accountably, a profoundly moral vocation. And just as Governments cannot, domestically, retreat from that moral function of fostering peace and upholding justice and liberty, neither can they do so internationally. Barbados supports the reform process. A reformed United Nations system should be cost-effective and efficient. The process should be orderly and informed by solid analytical work, with decisions based on rigorous evaluation of the mandates and performance of affected institutions and their relevance to the changing demands of developing countries. In this connection, Barbados believes that the abolition of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development would be premature. Restructuring of these institutions may well be warranted, but due process should first be served. Reform of the United Nations must not mean an abandonment of international cooperation and a retreat into isolationism by the strong and powerful among us. The growing interdependence on which the welfare of all our people depends makes isolationism an irresponsible fantasy. The problems that beset us — the degradation of the environment, the plight of the poor and the dispossessed, narco-trafficking and money-laundering, human rights abuses, and, especially, ensuring the equal rights of women and children — can be solved only through more intense international cooperation. Let us by all means streamline this Organization and its allied agencies. Let us make them more effective in the delivery of programmes of direct benefit to our peoples. But let not calls for better management and increased efficiency cloud any lack of resolve by the more fortunate among us to discharge their international responsibilities, or hamper the Organization’s capacity to fulfil the mandates entrusted to it by Member States. The United Nations has before it a daunting task. It must enlarge the Security Council to better reflect the realities of membership since 1965 as well as the geopolitical changes in the global environment. In particular, it must redesign its peace-keeping machinery to cope with the changing nature of conflicts in today’s world — namely, conflicts mainly within nations, not 8 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 between nations. Barbados supports the structure for such reform contained in “An Agenda for Peace”, and salutes the Secretary-General for his distinctive leadership on this crucial issue. In the economic and social fields, the United Nations must intensify its support to the development effort of developing countries. Barbados supports the framework for an “Agenda for Development”, prepared by the Secretary- General. The United Nations now has before it a comprehensive development agenda created by the continuum of United Nations Conferences in New York, in Rio, in Vienna, in Barbados, in Cairo, in Copenhagen and in Beijing. Barbados reaffirms the central role of women in development, which is acknowledged in the respective Programmes of Action of all these Conferences. Women bring their unique perspective to the development process — and without it, the whole is impoverished. Implementation of these expanded programmes is crucial. They must be carried out with commitment and dispatch. But even with expected improvements in efficiency, these critical tasks cannot be accomplished unless the United Nations system is placed on a sound financial footing. This is why we urge early action to solve the acute financial crisis of the Organization. All States, big and small, powerful and weak, learn that power must be exercised responsibly. The big and strong have a special role to play in a reformed United Nations, particularly in the maintenance of peace. It is unrealistic not to recognize this. But the small and weak also have their own vital contribution to make. Both must act responsibly and within both the letter and the spirit of international law. Barbados is confident that Member States can rise to this collective challenge. The machinery is already in place — in particular, the Open-ended High-level Working Group on the strengthening of the United Nations system. Barbados will participate fully in this historic session. It will work to revitalize and strengthen this unique institution, where humanity’s greatest hope for peace, security, development and social justice resides. Together, we can forge a renewed United Nations capable of fulfilling the promise enshrined in “We the peoples”. It gives me great pleasure to begin my statement by congratulating you, Sir, and on the Government and people of your country, Portugal, on your election as President of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, which coincides with the Golden Jubilee of the United Nations. I am confident that, with your skill and expertise in diplomacy and international affairs, you will be able to steer the deliberations of this session most efficiently and competently. I should like also to extend deep appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, for successfully conducting the affairs of the forty- ninth session of the General Assembly. Allow me also to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his sincere, incessant and dedicated efforts in the service of the international community through this Organization. Over the past few years, the world order has witnessed radical changes in its structure that have entailed developments some of which have been positive while others have been negative. On the positive side, wide- ranging developments have been seen in many States with regard to the emergence of democracy, political plurality, respect for human rights and basic freedoms. Such developments have been accompanied by a natural yearning for the achievement of development in both its economic and social domains, while developments on the negative side have generated a wider cycle of racial, national and religious disputes in some regions of the world that have led to a noticeable retreat from respect for human rights and basic freedoms of the human individual, as well as regression of development both in the economic and social spheres. The primary task of this Organization at this point in time is, perhaps, to focus on strengthening the first tendency and to limit, as much as possible, the second. In the face of such a challenge, the task of reforming the United Nations should be met with a view to strengthening its role, making it more effective and achieving a qualitative transformation of the work of its organs. The Security Council stands in need of restructuring with a view to increasing its membership in such a way as to reflect balanced representation of developed and developing countries. The present composition of the Council, as it took shape in the wake of World War II, no longer reflects the present balance of power in its broader sense. Any expansion of the permanent membership of the Council should take into account the inclusion of countries from the developing world which have significant political, economic and demographic weight. On the other hand, the veto prerogative of the five permanent Member States should be reviewed and certain Council mechanisms must be substantively reformed as in the case of the mechanism relating to economic sanctions. Reform of that mechanism should ensure: firstly, limiting as much as possible the impact of sanctions on the civilian population of the country on which the sanctions are imposed, and secondly, compensating third States that are affected by the sanctions in proportion to the damage sustained by them. It is also necessary to achieve the universality of the United Nations in conformity with Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Charter, which stipulates that membership in the United Nations is open to all peace-loving nations which accept the obligations contained in the Charter. Membership should not be denied on the basis of any political or other considerations. Peace-keeping operations have become the corner- stone of the overall work and activities of the United Nations. While my country, Jordan, prides itself on its wide-ranging participation in the operations, it deems it 9 necessary to continue the process of comprehensively reviewing peace-keeping operations in the light of the widening scope and number of such operations, as well as the diverse nature of the tasks undertaken by the peace- keepers and the dangers they are exposed to. At the same time, we emphasize the need to strengthen the efforts made to consolidate the foundations and bases of preventive diplomacy which aims to avert the break-out or escalation of conflicts, in addition to developing the machinery for post-conflict peacemaking and peace-building. As for the financial crisis which has impacted on peace-keeping operations, that crisis not only affects proper implementation and the level of performance, but affects also the participation of many developing countries in those operations. Those countries have now become reluctant to participate because they have not been reimbursed on time. If such a situation persists, it may impact adversely on the desired comprehensive international character of the structure of peace-keeping troops and lead to the exclusion of developing countries therefrom, thus restricting participation to the developed countries that are financially able to bear the cost of their participation. The only solution to this problem is for all countries to meet their financial obligations on time, particularly those countries that contribute the bulk of the United Nations budget. Jordan has supported the establishment of a special fund to help start new operations whenever needed. Part of the capital of this fund should be earmarked for the reimbursement of the developing countries that participate in such operations. In this regard, we feel that amendments need to be made to the reimbursement mechanism, so that the developing countries contributing troops to peace-keeping operations may be reimbursed on a priority basis. The end of the East-West bipolarity that plagued the world during the cold war and the disappearance of the ideological demarcation line that divided the world into two camps should prompt us to seize this historic opportunity afforded us by the current transitional period to lay down new foundations for North-South cooperation and to narrow the economic gap between them. The first step in that direction may well be to find substantive and meaningful solutions to the problem of the accumulated debts of the developing countries. While my country welcomed the establishment of the World Trade Organization and has applied for membership, we call for an in-depth study of the foundations and controls upon which freedom of trade is built. We also call for a review of the strategies of economic development at the international level, with a view to improving them in conformity with the principles of sustainable development and to achieve the cherished goal of environmental conservation. While world peace and stability are among the most important prerequisites for economic development and of the social development it entails, the development cycle, however, will not be complete without consolidating the underpinnings of democracy and social justice which lead to further development and thereby promote peace and stability. Proceeding from His Majesty King Hussein’s belief in the close relationship between peace, democracy and development, Jordan’s earnest participation in the peace process went hand in hand with the strengthening of democracy and the consolidation of political plurality in Jordan. As is known, the peace process which started in Madrid four years ago has resulted, inter alia, in the conclusion of the Jordanian-Israeli Peace Treaty, which restored to Jordan all its territorial and water rights and laid the foundation for a balanced relationship based on mutual and equal interests between Israel and Jordan. This, of course, reflects positively on the peace, stability and welfare of the peoples of the region. Efforts are now under way to bring about a huge qualitative jump in regional economic development in the Middle East. The States of the region are showing great interest in the Amman Economic Summit, which is scheduled to be held at the end of this month, October 1995, within the framework of regional cooperation, as a product of the multilateral track of the peace process. Jordan looks forward with optimism to the forthcoming Barcelona Conference with the aim of establishing a partnership that joins together the Mediterranean States. This would contribute to the consolidation of the comprehensive peace process in the Middle East. In this respect, I should like to express deep gratitude and appreciation for the role played by Europe, Japan and other States involved in the multilateral track of the peace process which, together with the United States of America, support the development efforts in Jordan and of peace-building in the region. Jordan’s participation in the multilateral track of the peace process stems from its conviction that it is 10 necessary to find effective solutions to the problems that have accumulated over the many years of the Arab-Israeli conflict. Foremost among those problems is the question of refugees. In this regard, we commend the outstanding role played by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), stress the importance of that role and of the essential services the Agency provides for the refugees. Accordingly, my country, as host to the largest number of refugees, feels that it is necessary for UNRWA’s work to continue and indeed for the services it provides to be expanded. This, in turn, necessitates the strengthening of UNRWA’s budget, until a final solution to the refugee problem is reached through return and compensation, as provided for in the United Nations resolutions and principles of international law. Therefore, while we acknowledge the donor States’ contributions, we call upon them, from this rostrum, to continue to contribute to UNRWA’s budget, so that this noble goal may be achieved. On the other hand, my country supports all efforts to advance the negotiations on other bilateral tracks in order to realize the principle of “the return of land for peace” on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), which constitute the essential terms of reference for the peace process. On this occasion, I should like to commend the very important development on the Palestinian-Israeli track with the conclusion of the Taba Agreement on the expansion of self-government in the West Bank and the subsequent signing of that agreement in Washington, D.C., on 28 September 1995. I should like also to take this opportunity to express Jordan’s full support for the Palestinian National Authority in its sincere efforts to achieve the goals of a just and durable peace in the region. We believe that those efforts will lead to the establishment of the independent State of Palestine, with the holy city of Al-Quds as its capital, in realization of the hopes and aspirations of the brotherly Palestinian people. My delegation did not spare any effort during the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in order for the Conference to produce positive results that would buttress this treaty which is a major cornerstone of the international non-proliferation regime, and may bring about its universality by the accession thereto of all States, including Israel, and the placement of its nuclear facilities under the safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency, as well as the provision of adequate security guarantees for non-nuclear- weapon States. In addition to the decision to extend the treaty indefinitely and to strengthen the review process, the Conference also adopted a resolution on the Middle East which called, inter alia, for taking the necessary measures to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region. Jordan has participated actively and in good faith in all the regional talks concerning arms control and regional security within the multilateral track of the peace process. We hope that these talks will achieve their goals, namely, the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and an end to the regional arms race in the area of conventional weapons. These efforts have started to bear fruit recently with the decision to establish three regional security centres in Amman, Doha and Tunis. We must emphasize here that the activation of these centres does not at all mean acceptance of the status quo with all its inherent imbalances, particularly with regard to nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. The main objective that inspired the establishment of those centres was to promote confidence-building amongst the States of the region and to redress the present imbalances in order to achieve a more secure and stable Middle East, as provided for in the Jordanian-Israeli Peace Treaty. At the international level, we hope that the ongoing negotiations within the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva will lead to concluding a comprehensive test-ban treaty before the end of next year. We also hope that the Conference on Disarmament will begin negotiations aimed at concluding a treaty on prohibition of the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons, and another convention to provide non-nuclear-weapon States with security assurances. As for the situation in the Gulf, Jordan reaffirms its interest in the security of that vital region and its earnest desire to establish strong relations of cooperation based on mutual respect and non-interference in the internal affairs of any State. In this regard, Jordan firmly supports and upholds the right of the United Arab Emirates to sovereignty over the three islands occupied by Iran. Jordan also supports all efforts aiming at bringing about an end to the Iranian occupation so that good neighbourly relations among the States of the region may be established and consolidated. 11 While we appreciate the positive step taken by Iraq in recognizing the sovereignty of Kuwait and its international boundaries, we emphasize the need to work for lifting the sanctions imposed on the brotherly people of Iraq, with a view to putting an end to their suffering, preserving the unity and the integrity of the people and the territory of Iraq and preventing its fragmentation which would endanger the security and safety of the region. Jordan also stresses the need to resolve the issue of the missing and detained Kuwaitis. We consider this a matter of utmost importance because of its legal and humanitarian dimensions. We call for Iraq’s full compliance with all relevant Security Council resolutions in order to discharge the commitment to properly implement Council resolutions in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Having said this, Jordan affirms its solidarity with and sympathy for the Iraqi people in their plight and underscores the need to respect their legitimate rights and aspirations to freedom and democracy and to safeguard their unity. Jordan states this with a clear conscience, in consonance with the Declaration of Human Rights and the Charter of the United Nations. Jordan has consistently made clear its stand on the tragic situation in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It supports the sovereignty and independence of this young republic and affirms the need to put an end to the Serbian aggression against it. Jordan also supported the position of the Contact Group established by the Organization of the Islamic Conference, which called for the lifting of the arms embargo imposed on Bosnia, in conformity with its inherent right to self-defence. Now, following the latest positive developments, represented by the Declaration of Principles agreed upon by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the States parties to the conflict under the auspices of the Western Contact Group and following the cease-fire decision, Jordan supports the position of the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and commends its flexibility in trying to reach agreement. We attach great importance to the continuation of diplomacy supported by force, which has led to the withdrawal by the Serbs of their heavy weapons from the areas surrounding the capital city of Sarajevo, with all that that entailed in terms of putting an end to the shelling of civilians, and of leading to the aforementioned Declaration of Principles. While we are to work in earnest for the establishment of a safer and more secure world order that would be founded on the values of freedom, tolerance and equality, we must recall the early calls made by Jordan during the 1980s, when His Royal Highness Crown Prince Hassan called for the establishment of a new humanitarian world order. Those calls were echoed in the proceedings of the United Nations General Assembly and translated into resolutions which called for and encouraged the establishment and consolidation of such a world order. Perhaps this new humanitarian world order, because of its aims which would make the human being the main focus of international action in such areas as the eradication of poverty and unemployment and the bridging of the gap between the rich and the poor, on both the individual and societal levels, may well furnish the solid foundation upon which we can build the desired new world order whose parameters have not crystallized as yet. In the same context, we should encourage interfaith dialogue. Such a dialogue would bridge the gaps between the beliefs and concepts of millions of human beings and, also, would make great strides towards advancing human development. If achieved, this would limit religious, sectoral and ethnic conflicts, both internally and amongst various communities at the international level. Perhaps there is a window of opportunity now afforded by the end of the cold war and of ideological and political conflicts. This could be a rare and historic opportunity to activate an interfaith dialogue, thus adding a new and valuable forum to the existing forums of dialogue. We in Jordan have always advocated interfaith dialogue as a safe way to combat blind bigotry and stereotyping. In order to achieve this, and in the midst of the painful labour that the process of establishing the new world order is undergoing, we must not marginalize one billion Muslims, exclude them or eventually drive them to radicalism. Muslims must be partners in the building of this new world order and must be actively involved in its development. Islam’s bright image is being distorted, which is a matter of grave concern for us. The pervasive anti-Islamic phenomenon, based on unjustified generalizations, aims at tarnishing the good name of Muslims and stigmatizing them as terrorists and blind extremists, with a view to totally distorting Islam’s image. This matter must receive greater attention from this international Organization. One should not ignore the fact that Islam is an adaptable civilization, comprising all shades of political opinion and all kinds of different religious thought, in addition to a vast, multifaceted human experience. Jordan urges the Member States of this international Organization to try to reach a better understanding of Islam as a religion, as a 12 culture and as a civilization, and to reject the phenomenon of antagonism to Islam in all its forms and manifestations. In conclusion, the road to a world of peace, security and stability inhabited by democratic societies, a world whose main goal is to attain the highest level of economic and social development, is a long and arduous road indeed. But the achievement of these lofty and noble aims of the Charter of the United Nations is worthy of our sacrifices, and requires more serious and sincere action at the international level. May I be permitted to offer to His Excellency Mr. Freitas do Amaral my sincere congratulations on his election to the high post of President of the golden fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that, under his able stewardship, the Assembly will succeed in advancing the noble aims and objectives of our Charter. I wish also to record my delegation’s profound appreciation to his predecessor, Ambassador Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, who presided most ably over the various activities of our Assembly during the forty-ninth session. The year 1995 is to be singled out for its landmark anniversaries. The fiftieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War is being observed worldwide with a renewed sense of comprehension of its painful lessons. This coincides with the golden jubilee of the founding of the United Nations, which embodies in its Charter the aspirations of our forefathers who, having stood actual witnesses to the horrors of a most devastating war, pledged to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war and settle international disputes by peaceful means. At the time of this historic celebration it is only fitting to pay tribute to the architects of the Charter, whose vision inspired it with continued viability and validity. 15 The family of the United Nations has come to embrace 185 sovereign States, a fact that unequivocally attests to the genuine universality and validity of its underlying purposes and principles. The world Organization has throughout served as a powerful engine for bringing about dramatic changes both in the domain of international relations and in the development process of nations. The United Nations is to be credited with impressive accomplishments in strengthening international peace and security, marshalling the efforts of the international community to put an end to colonialism and apartheid, ensuring the independence and sovereignty of developing countries and supporting their socio-economic development, advocating human rights and fundamental freedoms and protecting and preserving the environment, as well as in promoting education, culture, science and health. It can be said that at the heart of these accomplishments lies the international community’s growing realization of the prevalence of global priorities and the objective trends in historical developments, along with the wisdom of mastering the philosophy of fine-tuning the differing interests of States. However, the book of the Organization’s half-century history does not consist exclusively of success stories. There are chapters portraying the set-backs and failures of the United Nations when it was effectively handicapped by the then prevalent ideological antagonisms and military-bloc confrontation. There were times when sovereign States could not exercise their right to become Members of the United Nations. Mongolia, for one, which steadfastly sided with the Allied forces and other peace-loving nations during the Second World War, and made its humble contribution to the great victory, was until 1961 prevented from exercising its legitimate right to join the world Organization. The upcoming solemn celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations by the largest ever gathering of world leaders demonstrates that the international community, by associating its present and its future with the United Nations, is placing its hopes and aspirations in the Organization. We hope that the special commemorative meeting will be crowned with the adoption of the visionary document reaffirming the underlying purposes and principles of the Charter and outlining forward-looking strategies commensurate with the challenges of the new millennium. In this regard, the Secretary-General’s stimulating reports “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development” and their subsequent supplements help greatly in revamping our concepts of peace, security and development, as well as in our collective reflection on our future. The United Nations has served as a catalyst for convening a series of global conferences — conferences on the protection of children, on the environment, on human rights, on population and social development and on the advancement of women — resulting in the formulation of common strategies and specific platforms for action, now and into the twenty-first century. In order to ensure the full implementation of this comprehensive strategy of sustainable human development it is imperative to streamline the existing machinery for multilateral cooperation. Here, I wish to emphasize the urgent need for reform to take in the entire system of the United Nations, including the Bretton Woods institutions, by, inter alia, increasing the effectiveness of organizations in the economic and social fields, as well as improving their coordination. Momentous post-cold-war change has, in fact, failed to embrace international economic relations — an area of major concern to the United Nations. The persisting inequities and imbalances, as well as protectionist tendencies, the growing external-debt burden, the inability to participate equally in international decision-making and declining official development assistance flows, weigh heavily on the efforts of the developing countries effectively to address the pressing socio-economic problems that they face. Mongolia fully supports the efforts of the Non- Aligned Movement and the Group of 77 to call the attention of the international community, and of the Group of Seven in particular, to the question of addressing these acute problems. It goes without saying that this common objective can be attained only through joint North-South action. The persistence and proliferation of wars and crisis situations testify to the fact that conventional attitudes towards the use of force as a standard means of settling disputes have not been done away with and that the worth of the human person and his or her right to life continue to be denied. Against this backdrop, the United Nations has seen over the last few years a marked expansion in its activities in the area of peace-keeping, peacemaking and preventive diplomacy. Despite the difficulties encountered and the growing complexity of their missions, the peace- 16 keeping operations have largely succeeded in places where they have intervened for the purposes of restoring peace and normality. The failures suffered by the United Nations should not, however, frustrate its efforts in the future. Lessons drawn from these failures should help the Organization to weigh its potentials and limitations realistically and to act within mandates that are clear and attainable. If the Security Council is to reflect today’s realities and to live up to the challenges ahead, the reform process — democratization of its working methods and the introduction of greater transparency into its activities — should be further intensified. It is Mongolia’s considered view that expansion of the Security Council should be based on the principles of fairness and equitable representation. This should be ensured by, inter alia, the admission of countries with a global reach, like Japan and Germany, as well as representatives of developing countries. It is important to take specific steps to ensure the full implementation of the resolution on the protection and security of small States adopted at the last session. Mongolia welcomes the Secretary-General’s report on the specific development needs of small Member States, and expects that the ideas and recommendations that it contains will be duly reflected in the activities of the United Nations. Mongolia highly appreciates the international community’s understanding of the problems and hardships faced by countries in transition and the support for their efforts to integrate into the world economy. We deem it important that the General Assembly has decided to consider this issue at its fifty-first session. My delegation hopes that the report on this subject to be prepared by the Secretary-General will take due account of the characteristics of all countries — in particular, geographic location, climatic conditions and infrastructure development, among others. We applaud the entry into force of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is widely acclaimed as one of the historic achievements of United Nations cooperative efforts. There is no need to emphasize the importance of that Convention to countries like Mongolia, which is a geographically disadvantaged, land-locked developing country with an unfavourable road and transportation environment. The Mongolian delegation expresses its hope that the General Assembly will at its present session endorse the recommendations adopted last June by the Second Meeting of Governmental Experts from Land-locked and Transit Developing Countries and Representatives of Donor Countries and Financial and Development Institutions. We believe that the World Trade Organization will facilitate the integration of developing countries into the international trading system and ensure the protection of their interests through benefits derived from the trade- discipline mechanism. The disarmament agenda was highlighted this year by the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which considered the operation of the Treaty and decided on its indefinite extension. Among the important objectives and principles aimed at strengthening the nuclear disarmament process with practical measures, special mention should be made of those related to the conclusion of a comprehensive test- ban treaty. It is, however, deplorable that two nuclear- weapon States Parties to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, contrary to the commitments undertaken, are conducting nuclear tests and have announced their intention to continue them. A zero-yield comprehensive test-ban recently announced by the United States Administration will, in our view, speed up the negotiations on the treaty so that it may be concluded next year. We wish to express our concern over the slow pace of ratification of the chemical weapons Convention, which is unnecessarily delaying its entry into force. We call upon those countries that have not yet done so to ratify the Convention as soon as possible. Mongolia welcomes the interim agreement on the second stage of autonomy reached by the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Israel within the framework of achieving the full realization of the Palestinian people’s right to self-determination. That agreement represents a major step towards consolidating the peace process in the Middle East. My delegation also expresses its satisfaction at the recent agreements regarding the former Yugoslavia, which give us hope for the eventual solution of the protracted crisis there. 17 We believe that the Eleventh Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, which will take place in Colombia shortly, will outline the tasks of the Movement in the years to come and will make its contribution to the efforts of the world community aimed at solving a host of interrelated problems of strengthening international peace and security and promoting development and progress. It is of great importance that with the strengthening of peace, stability and economic growth in the Asia-Pacific region, the contours of regional and subregional cooperation are becoming more pronounced. The progress achieved in resolving the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula has had a positive bearing on the prospects of overall settlement in that part of our region. Mongolia, in line with its foreign-policy priorities, is endeavouring to participate more actively in the process of regional integration. We trust that this stance will enjoy greater support from other Governments. More than five years have elapsed since Mongolia embarked upon the road of democracy and economic liberalization. A solid foundation for a new political fabric and its legal guarantees has been laid down. The economic decline has been checked, and signs of recovery are being discerned. We are gratified by the support and assistance of the world community, donor countries and international organizations, which continue to play an important role in consolidating these positive beginnings. However, the hardships of transition are still being acutely felt as, inter alia, our gross national product is quite far from its pre-crisis level, living standards are in decline and poverty is on the rise. Under these circumstances, my Government, in addition to mobilizing its own resources to the utmost, is compelled to seek further assistance from outside. In this regard, we look forward to the fifth donor meeting, to be held in Tokyo early next year. In conclusion, may I express my confidence that at this commemorative session the General Assembly will consider the items on its agenda in a constructive manner and will adopt decisions responding to the challenges ahead. I warmly congratulate the President on his election to preside over the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We take confidence from the fact that his experience and distinction will be available to guide us in our deliberations at this historic session. I am especially pleased to extend my congratulations to the representative of a country with which we have the closest and most friendly relations as a fellow member of the European Union. I wish at the outset to congratulate the parties to the latest peace accord in the Middle East, which will be signed in Washington tomorrow. It has required great statesmanship, courage and perseverance on the part of Palestinian and Israeli leaders alike to reach this agreement. We in Ireland will continue to play our part in supporting the peace process, together with our partners in the European Union. In the same spirit, we warmly welcome the agreement reached yesterday in New York, which we all hope will lay the foundation for a lasting peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina and throughout the region. If I choose to highlight two issues at the very beginning of my remarks, Sir, you will understand, I am sure, that it is because these two issues have created such a resonance around the world. The first issue to which I refer is the Fourth World Conference on Women. Ireland stands committed to the principle that human rights are indivisible — the rights of one are the rights of all. No system based on a universal commitment to human rights can survive if the rights of women are not seen as an integral factor in the equation. Women suffer disproportionately from the effects of war and armed conflict, whether it be as casualties from land-mines or as the victims of systematic rape. Women and children form the great majority of the more than 1 billion people living in poverty around the world today. Women in most societies are prevented from participating fully in the decision-making processes and have unequal access to power. Women continue to be prevented from fully exercising their sexual and reproductive rights, including the newly recognized right to have control over, and decide freely and responsibly on, matters related to their sexuality, free of coercion, discrimination and violence. The Fourth World Conference on Women, held earlier this month in Beijing, addressed these and other issues of relevance to women. The Declaration and the Platform adopted by the Conference pose a major challenge to Governments and the international community to overcome the obstacles which continue to face women around the world. They also represent a solemn commitment by Governments and the whole United Nations system to take all necessary measures to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women and to remove all obstacles to gender equality and the advancement and empowerment of women. On behalf of the Irish Government I pledge here that we will do everything in our power to ensure that this commitment is honoured and implemented. The second issue to which I must refer is the resumption of nuclear testing by the French and Chinese Governments. It would be wrong if I were to address this gathering and ignore decisions that have — almost literally — sent shock waves around the world. We in Ireland, confronted as we are by the ever-present anxiety posed by ageing nuclear facilities on our neighbouring island, have had many occasions over the years to know the worry caused by the potential of nuclear power. The great majority of the Irish people, therefore, easily understand and share the deep concern of the peoples of the South Pacific. Nor can we fail to recognize the dismay and dejection caused by the resumption of nuclear testing in the immediate aftermath of the successful outcome of the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review and Extension Conference. The finalization of the comprehensive test-ban treaty early next year remains an absolute imperative. The President of the General Assembly is taking office at an exceptional time in the history of the United 23 Nations. Next month the Heads of State or Government will meet here in special session to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization. The General Assembly, inspired by this anniversary, should mark a decisive new phase for the United Nations. The world faces a daunting array of new problems which require the United Nations to adapt and revitalize its resources. The representative of Spain, Foreign Minister Solana, speaking on behalf of the European Union, set out these challenges in his speech here yesterday to this Assembly. Ireland associates itself fully with these remarks. The fiftieth anniversary coincides with a more critical attitude towards the United Nations in many countries. There is a growing readiness to highlight shortcomings and failures rather than the longer-term record of real and substantial success. We cannot ignore this criticism, particularly when it comes from many who are ordinarily the strongest advocates of the United Nations. The United Nations, like any other organization, can only benefit from rigorous examination and adaptation. But no organization can of itself provide wholesale remedies for removing the hatred, the fear, the distrust and the divisions in the world. Many of the shortcomings for which the Organization is frequently criticized have more to do with a flagging of the collective will to demonstrate the determination, generosity, courage and tolerance to live up to the obligations of the Charter. The Charter remains the bedrock for what lies ahead, as it has been for all that has been achieved over those 50 years. The United Nations has a remarkable record on which to build: it has enshrined the universal obligation of respect for law and good conduct between States as the centre-piece of international relations; it served in numerous ways during the long years of the cold war to dull the edge of great-Power rivalry and reduce the dangers of global confrontation; it provided an indispensable framework for the negotiation of crucial arms-control agreements which hold the promise of a world free of weapons of mass destruction; it facilitated the process of decolonization and helped bring about the dismantling of apartheid; it prevented numerous conflicts through its peace-keeping operations and restored stability to many parts of the world; it set the basic international standards for human rights and monitors their observance; it has sustained efforts to eliminate poverty, alleviate distress and deprivation, and improve the health and living standards of millions of the world’s most vulnerable citizens. We may ask, what of the recent past? The United Nations has seen great recent achievements — in Mozambique, in Cambodia, in Haiti, in El Salvador, to take some examples. The peoples of those countries can bear witness to new hopes for a better and more secure future. In other local and regional conflicts, however, the United Nations experience, in the face of extraordinarily complex and painful circumstances, has seen serious setbacks. The human misery resulting from the wars in former Yugoslavia, Rwanda and Somalia has shocked the world. Almost 50 years after the adoption of the Universal Declaration, human rights violations remain a major widespread problem. With a resurgence of regional conflict and ethnic tensions in many parts of the world, we have been confronted with virtually every imaginable human rights abuse. In contemporary warfare, more than 90 per cent of the casualties are non-combatants who are often directly targeted because of their ethnic or religious affiliations. Children, like women, are especially vulnerable. During the last decade, nearly 2 million children have died in wars and more than 5 million have been forced into refugee camps. More children die in wars than soldiers. At the present time throughout the world there are almost 30 million refugees and displaced persons in need of assistance. In the Great Lakes region of Africa, as the refugee nightmare deepens, we require urgent and concerted action to avert any danger of new tragedies. The scale of all these problems has already stretched to the limits our ability to respond, and has heightened the problem of United Nations credibility. It is against this background that we the Member States must revitalize the United Nations in its mission and equip it with the means to react with vigour and determination to the new crises which constantly arise. This means improving the response to humanitarian emergencies. But it also means tackling more effectively their root causes, poverty and deprivation, preventing conflicts before they arise, and more quickly containing and resolving them when they do. The Secretary-General’s Agenda for Peace and Agenda for Development are landmark documents that set out clear priorities and a programme for action. 24 One of the many bitter lessons that we have to draw from recent experience in Rwanda and Bosnia is that the traditional deployment of peace-keeping units is no longer, on its own, a sufficient response to the type of crises which we face. In the past, peace-keeping operations were primarily concerned with policing cease-fires between Member States, pending diplomatic efforts to resolve the substantive political issues. That, unfortunately, is no longer the case: 11 of the 13 operations established since 1991 have involved internal conflicts. Peace-keeping contingents increasingly find themselves operating in situations where government and civil order have broken down. There are no longer clear points of reference for such operations which have become politically and logistically more complex, and financially more onerous. There are a number of ways in which the management and conduct of peace-keeping operations must be improved. Perhaps most urgent is the need to improve the response capability of the United Nations in dealing with sudden or complex emergencies. Important initiatives have already been taken in this regard with the development of the United Nations stand-by arrangements system. Such arrangements might perhaps be extended to other areas to ensure that a full range of humanitarian, logistical and civil defence as well as military options is available to the United Nations in dealing with the many crises which it is called upon to address. In Ireland we are actively exploring the possibility of bringing together a humanitarian liaison group comprising experts from a wide range of fields which could be deployed at short notice when emergencies occur. Command and control of United Nations operations also needs to be improved. Greater attention needs to be paid to ensuring that the distinction between peace-keeping and peace enforcement is not blurred in devising mandates for operations, if the confidence and willingness of troop- contributing countries to continue providing troops is to be maintained. Regional organizations can also play a valuable role in support of United Nations peace-keeping activities. It is of course essential that such organizations in carrying out their role do so strictly in accordance with the mandate which the Security Council has laid down. The United Nations should benefit from the support of regional organizations, as the Charter envisages, but should not in doing so relinquish its overall control and responsibility. My delegation shares the concerns which the Secretary-General has expressed about the safety of United Nations personnel in the field. We would like to see the United Nations Convention on the safety and security of United Nations personnel enter into force as soon as possible. Our concern extends to all personnel who find themselves in dangerous situations, including humanitarian experts working with non-governmental organizations, who are frequently the first to arrive in the field in the early, and often most dangerous, stages of an emergency. On the basis of the recommendations of the Secretary-General, we need to look again at how we can develop the United Nations capacity for preventive diplomacy, early warning and mediation, and for timely intervention in disputes before they escalate out of control. Ireland continues to believe that the task of preventing conflict would also be facilitated by the creation of a mediation body which would work closely with the Secretary-General and the Security Council. The dispatch of special teams of advisers and monitors to areas of crisis and tension should be placed on a more assured and regular basis than in the past. I believe that a small investment here would be amply and quickly repaid. There is a growing acceptance that violations of humanitarian law are a threat to international peace and security. The case for the establishment of a permanent international criminal court is therefore more obvious than ever before. It is only through such a body that the international community can effectively demonstrate that massive human rights violations will never go unpunished. The international community is attempting to break the pattern of violence in Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia by ensuring that those who are guilty of human rights abuses are punished and that minimum standards of accountability are set so as to deter future offenders. We have rightly responded by establishing teams of United Nations human rights monitors as well as ad hoc tribunals to try the perpetrators of war crimes. This is a good beginning. It is also necessary to devise measures which would extend vigilance and provide early warning of potential situations of human rights abuse. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, supported by human rights monitors, is already playing a 25 key role in meeting this objective. He must be given our full cooperation and adequate financial support. The promotion of the universality of human rights achieved a significant breakthrough with the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. However, our concerns are that implementation will suffer unless there is a significant increase in the proportion of the regular budget devoted to human rights activity. As a demonstration of our own national commitment, the Irish Government has this year increased substantially its contribution to the various United Nations voluntary funds in the field of human rights. It is now time for the United Nations to pay more attention to constructing the foundations for peace through development. As part of the process of renewal, we need to work in partnership to pursue a new approach to cooperation for development — a cooperation which redresses the imbalances and has as an objective the realization of sustainable human development for all. Ireland has consistently supported the elaboration of “An Agenda for Development”, and we look forward to a substantive and relevant outcome. Most of the zones of insecurity in the world are to be found in developing countries, and the Charter clearly recognizes that lack of development is one of the root causes of conflict between States. This year is the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the Great Famine in Ireland, a catastrophe of enormous proportions, which has had a lasting and searing impact on Irish life. Its memory is still very much alive, and it has reinforced the Irish commitment to the prevention of similar catastrophes in other parts of the world. While many areas of the world, including my own country, have seen great economic and social progress over the past 50 years, the developing world, especially in Africa, has not enjoyed the benefits of this progress. How can we explain the fact that, in a world of plenty, one fifth of the world’s population still goes to bed hungry? Earlier this year the World Summit for Social Development agreed on a consensus approach to the development of international norms in the economic, social and related spheres. We now need to act at both the international and the national levels to implement the commitments and consolidate the achievements. In recent years new opportunities have opened up for disarmament; we should now move decisively to grasp them. Never has the continued presence of huge arsenals of mass destruction been so out of step with the hopes and aspirations of the international community. Never has the logic underpinning nuclear deterrence been so much in need of fundamental and critical reassessment. There has been progress in some areas. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) has been made permanent and its Parties have been made more accountable. Renewed commitments to nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament were accepted by all participants at the NPT review and extension Conference. My country looks to all nuclear-weapon States, and in particular the five permanent member States of the Security Council, to keep faith with the spirit and letter of these commitments. We welcome the progress being made in the negotiations for a comprehensive test-ban treaty. Their conclusion next year would be warmly greeted by public opinion in our countries and would facilitate new steps in the field of nuclear disarmament, in particular the successful conclusion of a treaty which would ban the production of fissile materials for weapons purposes. Ireland is deeply committed to stemming the excessive flow of conventional arms worldwide, and we support the objective of a ban on anti-personnel land-mines, which have caused civilian suffering on a huge scale. The elaboration of a United Nations code of conduct on conventional arms transfers, which I have proposed to the Assembly, remains a valuable practical priority in developing greater international controls over the flow of conventional weapons. In conducting its mission and fulfilling its responsibilities under the Charter, the United Nations must also begin a process of institutional reform and renewal. This should begin with the Security Council. The Security Council needs to be enlarged in order to increase its effectiveness and its ability to act, both clearly and unambiguously, as the expression of the common will of Member States. Enlargement should enhance the representative character of the Security Council, taking into account the emergence of new economic and political powers as well as the increase in United Nations membership. It should also enhance equitable geographic representation, and it should not diminish the possibility for smaller Member 26 States to serve. Enlargement should take place in both the permanent and non-permanent categories of membership. After two years of discussion we have now reached the point where we should begin to clarify the elements of a balanced solution. The Secretary-General has made it very clear to us that the Organization is now facing an unprecedented financial crisis. How can we expect the United Nations to discharge the responsibilities given to it by Member States if the Member States themselves are unwilling to meet their basic obligations under the Charter to provide the necessary resources? Unless urgent steps are taken, what we say here will be no more than empty words. My delegation fully understands the reason why the Secretary-General has found it necessary to take various measures to reduce costs. We support the thrust of his proposals. However, as the European Union has made clear, we view with considerable concern the decision of the Secretary-General, as part of these cost-saving measures, to suspend payment of all troop reimbursement costs. Even as a short-term measure, this imposes a heavy and unfair burden on troop-contributing countries, particularly those which, like Ireland, have fully discharged all their financial obligations to the Organization. If all Member States were to declare here their intentions to pay assessed contributions in full, on time and without conditions, both for peacekeeping and the regular budget, this single commitment would do more than any other to strengthen the United Nations capacity to act effectively. When I spoke last year to the Assembly about the Northern Ireland situation, I stressed the importance of the announcement, a few weeks earlier, of the complete cessation of military operations by the IRA. This was followed, some weeks afterwards, by a similar announcement by representatives of the loyalist paramilitaries. Thankfully, the guns have now been silent in Northern Ireland for the past year. This has brought the gift of peace, and the gift of hope, to a situation where both had been sorely lacking. The gift of peace has been profoundly welcome. The unremitting toll of death and destruction which disfigured Northern Ireland for the past generation has been halted. The economic opportunities offered by peace have rapidly begun to be exploited. Freed from the shadow of terrorism, human contacts have multiplied across the divide in Northern Ireland and between both parts of the island. The paramilitary leaders, through the maintenance of their cease-fires, have made an important first contribution to the climate of hope. However, only the two Governments and the political leaders in Northern Ireland can consolidate the hope implicit in the cessation of violence by underpinning it with an agreed political settlement which can enjoy the consent and allegiance of all. That is now the paramount goal. In the Joint Declaration of 15 December 1993, the British and Irish Governments acknowledged as their goal “to remove the causes of conflict, to overcome the legacy of history and to heal the divisions which have resulted”. This task can now be addressed free of the polarizing and distorting influences which terrorism, and the countermeasures it calls forth, exert on the political process. It is vital that this unprecedented opportunity should be grasped. A settlement of the Northern Ireland conflict requires the engagement and cooperation of both Governments and of the political leaders of both communities in Northern Ireland. The close cooperation of the two Governments has been the enabling condition for the progress to date. The Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985 and the Joint Declaration of 1993 are landmark documents in that process. Last February we published the New Framework for Agreement, setting out the shared assessment of the two Governments on how a balanced and honourable accommodation could be envisaged across all the key relationships. While this is not a blueprint to be imposed on the parties, it reflects long and careful consideration between the two Governments on how the underlying realities should be addressed and is designed to give impetus and direction to the process of negotiations. The role of the two Governments is crucial because the Northern Ireland conflict is primarily about the wider British or Irish allegiances resolutely cherished by the two communities there. For that reason, there can be no purely internal solution. Innovative thinking and potentially difficult decisions will be required on both sides of the Irish Sea if the two Governments are to create the context and conditions where the conflicting allegiances can at last be reconciled. The success of these intergovernmental efforts will, however, be measured ultimately by attitudes of the two communities within Northern Ireland. The attitude of the 27 nationalist tradition has been characterized by an ever growing acceptance of the principle that there would be no change in the status of Northern Ireland without the consent of a majority of the people there. They look in turn to the unionist community for an acknowledgement that the principle of consent, as well as being a rightful protection for unionists against the imposition of a united Ireland against the wishes of a majority of the people in Northern Ireland, also implies the rights of nationalists in Northern Ireland to be governed by structures which are relevant and responsive in terms of their allegiance and aspirations. The denial of the principle of consent, and of mutual respect, has been costly in the past. The relative weights of the communities within Northern Ireland, as in Ireland as a whole, mean that coercion is quite simply impossible, even if anyone were foolish enough to attempt it. Cooperation and consent at all levels are not just the best policy, but the only possible policy. Because of this reality, the politics of the peace process must be resolutely inclusive. Any viable settlement must deal with each community as it defines itself, not as others would find it convenient for it to be. For that reason, I welcome the fact that the new leader of Ulster unionism is among the most forceful and assertive representatives of his community’s philosophy. The test of statesmanship for any leader in Northern Ireland and the kind of solution we seek are not about abating the rights of either community. They are about finding ways to respect them which are compatible with equally important rights on the other side. We know that talks can succeed only if both communities in Northern Ireland are reliably and authentically represented at those talks. Nationalism should be represented in its integrity at those talks, and so also must unionism. Both have to spell out how they propose to accommodate satisfactorily a tradition and an identity which is not their own. Both Governments have explicitly set inclusive and comprehensive negotiations as their goal, yet these have not yet begun. That failure is frustrating and threatens to dissipate the momentum towards a lasting peace. It would be ironic and dangerous if those who have been persuaded to abandon violence were now to be denied the chance to make their case politically. It is vital, therefore, that obstacles in the way of comprehensive negotiations should now be overcome. One of the most difficult obstacles is that the continued existence of arsenals of guns and explosives is a source of fear, anxiety and mistrust. The Irish Government, for its part, is absolutely determined that all arms should be erased from the political equation as soon as possible. Any debate is about the best means of achieving this, not about whether it should be done. It is because of the importance of this goal that we wish to situate it in the context where it is most likely to be achieved in practice. We seek to avoid, as far as possible, symbolic overtones of surrender or of a one-sided admission of guilt. In this context, no less than in other contexts in Northern Ireland, the concepts of victory and defeat will never offer a solution. To make the decommissioning of weapons a precondition for entry into negotiations, as opposed to an important goal to be realized in that process, ignores the psychology and motivation of those on both sides in Ireland who have resorted to violence and the lessons of conflict resolution elsewhere. We should treat negotiations, as far as possible, as a practical step. Rather than surrounding entry into negotiations with preconditions, we should instead seek to build golden bridges to enable and encourage all to take part. We need all those who have been part of the problem to become, as far as possible, part of the solution. Given the depth and cost of the problem, participation in negotiations should be treated as a necessity and a duty, not a privilege to be jealously withheld or awarded. If we multiply preconditions, we are in danger of saying, in effect, that negotiations can take place only when the problems they are supposed to address have already been largely solved. In saying this, I do not wish to be in any way dismissive of the genuine difficulty many people in Northern Ireland have in dealing on an equal footing with those who have in the past used or condoned violence and coercion. It is clear that there is ample room for further guarantees and assurances aimed at building trust and confidence in relation to this sensitive issue. If these guarantees and assurances can be authoritatively and credibly underscored by a respected and objective outside agency, so much the better. That is why the idea of an international dimension to this confidence-building process is so appealing. We continue to work on it, in the hope that it can provide a bridge for all sides to overcome the present difficulty. 28 The Secretary-General has eloquently expressed the essence of our task in this anniversary year by saying, “To support the United Nations is not, and never has been, to subsidize a separate, independent entity. Today, more than ever, to support the United Nations is to participate in the only world Organization composed of all humanity and in the service of all humanity. “Today, a half-century later, it is our duty and our privilege to take this project to its next stage — the achievement of an age of peace, development and security.” At the outset, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. His election reflects the esteem in which Member States hold his country, the friendly country of Portugal, and the confidence that his diplomatic talents will make possible the successful culmination of the work of this important session. I should also like to express my delegation’s esteem for his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for the competent way in which he conducted the work of the forty-ninth session. It is also my pleasure to express Qatar’s full confidence in and esteem for the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. In fact, he is doing a great deal to serve this international Organization, and has been extremely assiduous in implementing its noble principles and strengthening its role in the maintenance of international peace and security. I should like to congratulate the Member States that have recently joined the Organization. We hope that those States will be active participants in and will contribute constructively to the activities of the United Nations and to the defence of its principles. This fiftieth session is being held at a historic and complex turning point in history, where extreme complexity characterizes the concepts relating to international relations. These concepts, because of their diversity and the erratic course they follow, create a number of serious difficulties and obstacles that face the emergence of the desired international order. All this has taken concrete form in the resurgence of inter-ethnic and inter-racial extremist conflicts that threaten the very foundations of international society, which should continue to be based on tolerance and the principles and values of the United Nations. Hence the need to redouble our efforts to put an end to such conflicts and to contain their consequences and the threats they pose to the international community. While expressing our appreciation for the efforts that have been made by this Organization to cope with the deplorable events that have taken place in Somalia, Rwanda, Burundi and Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are mindful of the difficulties that obstruct such efforts and make it difficult for the Organization to find the desired solutions to those problems. On top of all this, it is patently clear that the Security Council, which has adopted pertinent resolutions to solve these problems, has come face to face with obstacles that hampered the achievement of the desired solutions. The continued presence of such obstacles has affected the credibility and standing of the United Nations. In the post-cold-war period, the United Nations has been put to the test in the areas of peace-keeping and the maintenance of international peace and security. Hence the urgent need during this fiftieth anniversary to make every effort to fundamentally reform the United Nations to enhance its effectiveness and its standing. I think we all aspire to the goal of reforming the United Nations, and my country attaches particular importance to it; it would strengthen the effectiveness of the international Organization and enhance its image. We know that the obstacles facing the Security Council have been the reason behind the demand for reforming that principal organ with the Charter responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. A high priority is given to this reform of the Security Council which tops the list of the desired reforms of the United Nations. As for the State of Qatar, it attaches particular importance to efforts to reform the Council and to increase its membership proportionately with the increased membership of the United Nations itself. We must also bear in mind the need to increase the number of permanent seats to ensure balanced representation. The great challenge the international community faces as it strives to reform the Security Council is to achieve a balanced membership and to ensure that the changes will make for increased effectiveness. We should also speed up reform of the working methods and procedures of the Security Council. We must review the right of veto and rein in its use as that right has frequently been used against the interests of the international community and in favour of individual States. Proceeding from its conviction that international peace can be achieved only through disarmament and restraining the arms race, particularly with respect to 18 weapons of mass destruction and that halting the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is one of the most important foundations of international peace and security, the State of Qatar welcomed the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, and supported the extension of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), even if it considers that the indefinite extension of the Treaty will never achieve the desired result unless all States accede to it. We therefore hope that all the States which have not yet acceded to the Treaty will do so. Qatar continues to believe that Israel should accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and should place its nuclear installations under the safeguards regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) as a prelude to the implementation of the General Assembly’s resolution establishing a nuclear- weapon-free zone in the Middle East. This would contribute to equitable, balanced peace and stability in that vital region of the world. Since His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Hamad Al- Thani became Emir, he has stressed Qatar’s adherence to its regional and international obligations, and has emphasized that Qatar will act through international and regional organizations in strengthening international peace and security. By joining our brethren in the Gulf Cooperation Council, we have set a course towards the achievement of the noble goals that reflect the aspirations of the peoples of the Gulf after peace, stability, cooperation and prosperity. The security of the Gulf is one of the major concerns of its peoples. Our region has witnessed two major wars, during which our peoples have made great sacrifices that have taken the shape of financial burdens which we continue to shoulder at a time when we move towards development and modernization. We are determined to overcome the negative effects of those two wars and to spare the region any further conflict. Moreover, Qatar is making efforts to establish good relations with all States of the region on the basis of good-neighbourliness, mutual respect, non-interference in the internal affairs of others, respect for international legality, and the settlement of problems by peaceful means through dialogue, mediation or recourse to the International Court of Justice. Proceeding from this, we support resolution of the dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran with respect to the three islands by peaceful means. With regard to Iraq, our position remains unchanged: Iraq’s unity and territorial integrity must be preserved. Iraq must implement all Security Council resolutions. Iraq’s recognition of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State of Kuwait, and of its international boundaries, in accordance with Security Council resolution 833 (1993) is a very important step in the right direction towards full implementation of all Security Council resolutions, a fact that should speed up the mitigation of the suffering of the brotherly Iraqi people who continue to face an acute shortage of essential goods, especially foods and medicine. Inspired by the guidelines established by His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Hamad Al Thani, Qatar has been participating, to the best of its financial and human abilities, in addressing the major issues of the Gulf region and of our Arab and Islamic nation. Qatar, therefore, fully supports the activities of the Gulf Cooperation Council, which are in the interest of the well-being of all our peoples. It is our hope that security and stability will soon reign in our region, for this is an integral part of the security and stability of the Middle East at large. To that end, Qatar is continuing its good offices and its efforts to improve the situation in the Arab world and to consolidate Arab solidarity, which will make it possible for the nation to pursue its special role in the history of civilization. It is on the basis of these principles that we have welcomed the Middle East peace process. We hope that it will prove successful and that it will at long last bring a just and lasting peace to the region and lead to Israel’s complete withdrawal from all the occupied Arab and Palestinian territories, including the Golan Heights, southern Lebanon and, particularly, Al-Quds Al-Sharif. This will make it possible for the Palestinian people to regain its right to establish a State of its own, on its own soil, with Al-Quds as its capital. Qatar welcomes the expanded autonomy of the Palestinians under the agreement signed last Thursday at Washington between the Palestinians and the Israelis. We hope this agreement will open the doors that lead to peace and stability in the region and will prove to be an important step towards full implementation of the Declaration of Principles signed by the two parties in September 1993. 19 By the same token, Qatar wishes to voice its deep concern at the fact that talks between Syria and Israel are lagging behind. We hope for substantial progress on that track so that the Israeli occupation of the Syrian Arab Golan may come to an end. We hope also that there will be progress on the Lebanese-Israeli track, so that southern Lebanon may be freed from the Israeli presence under which it has been the victim of much aggression and oppression. It is our hope that a just and lasting peace will be established on the basis of the Madrid formula and the relevant Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and on the basis of the land-for- peace formula. We therefore call on the General Assembly to reaffirm all prior resolutions on the question of Palestine and the situation in the Middle East, so that the goal of a just, comprehensive peace can be achieved. My Government follows with great concern developments in Afghanistan, Somalia and Chechnya. We appeal for the intensification of international efforts to bring peace, justice and stability to those areas. We also reaffirm — as we have frequently done, both officially and in public statements — our solidarity with the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are concerned over the continuing bloodshed, four years after the outbreak of the war. Together with many other States, we have deplored the savage practices of ethnic cleansing pursued by the Serbian forces under the eyes of the entire world. Those practices are totally against the most elementary rules and norms of humanitarian law and the Charter of the United Nations. We welcome the military action undertaken by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), in cooperation with the forces of the United Nations, to put an end to Serbian aggression. We hope that those measures of deterrence will make it possible for peace to be achieved at long last and that the international community will take a very firm and resolute stand, both through the United Nations and through the major Powers that are actively involved, to guarantee the safety of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By the same token, we hope that the weapons embargo will be lifted, in order for these people to defend themselves, to preserve the independence of their country and to ensure the triumph of the principles of the Charter. The Serbian barbarity they have endured has engulfed even the safe areas. Qatar also supports the stance of the Contact Group of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, which deems the embargo on weapons to be illegal and supports the fraternal Muslim people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are now at a critical stage in the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. The international community must, of necessity, act to restore a just peace in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to ensure that that country may enjoy stability, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity and get down to the business of economic and social development. We hope that the Serbian war criminals will be duly tried and that this will be a lesson to all such criminals. Qatar is profoundly convinced that peace and development follow the same path, that development is as necessary for the international community as is peace. It is possible to ensure continuous development only if there is peace, and vice-versa. Since sustainable and long-term development is one of the cornerstones of genuine peace, it is a high priority for the United Nations and the international community to focus on development, particularly in the developing countries. A commitment to development in all its aspects is, indeed, the very bedrock of the international economic order — the new order that we all look forward to and hope that it will be based essentially on interdependence. The international community has already started to move in that direction, through the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the establishment of the World Trade Organization. This will help to strengthen the multilateral trade system, which is based on the liberalization and expansion of international trade. As confirmation of this, His Highness the Emir of the State of Qatar has extolled the merit, from Qatar’s point of view, of particular political groups, saying that, despite the fact that ours is a small country, we are trying to react favourably to the new international situation in order to find our proper place in it. We are also taking action to strengthen the ways and means available to us, for the achievement of that goal. Our economic objectives are the following: to exploit our own natural wealth; to export our products on the best possible terms; to strengthen our industrial base by consolidating and developing our current industries and by creating new ones on the basis of our natural resources, particularly petroleum and gas; to strengthen and encourage investment in all areas, making it possible for private capital to be involved in economic 20 development; and to emphasize infrastructure projects, as these are the main requirements for socio-economic development. All this highlights the reason why we attach such importance to economic and social development as a mainstay of international peace and security. That is why development has become a common goal for the international community. Having taken shape in a number of international conferences, it should be adopted by all the nations of the world. We attach particular importance to the results of the conferences that have been held in recent years in the context of the importance accorded by the international community to this common goal, namely, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, in Rio de Janeiro; the International Conference on Population and Development, in Cairo; the World Summit for Social Development, in Copenhagen; and the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing, to emphasize the role of women in development with due consideration of the cultural differences between peoples and the various noble ideals of the Islamic faith. It is our hope that the matters that were debated will not be used as a pretext for interference in the internal affairs of other States or as justification for discriminatory treatment and the imposition of conditions on the provision of economic assistance or development aid. I should like to refer in this context to the tendency to impose, unilaterally or collectively, a carbon tax, for the purpose, it is alleged, of protecting the environment. The truth of the matter is that the tax is a purely economic measure, which will impact negatively on the economies of the petroleum-exporting countries, particularly the Gulf States. The threats that face mankind at present and will continue to do so in the future are not all political or military. Such threats as the deterioration of the environment on a global scale, poverty, underdevelopment, drugs, epidemics of fatal diseases, terrorism and violations of human rights which are becoming more and more serious day by day, are not of a military or political nature. Regardless, they need to be addressed urgently and global solutions have to be found for them if they are not to become untreatable and threaten all humanity. In just a few days we shall be celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. This is an extremely important occasion, reflecting as it does a genuine desire on the part of the peoples of the world to preserve the United Nations as a strong and active Organization whose purpose is to achieve noble goals and safeguard the future of mankind. As we celebrate the anniversary, at the threshold of the twenty-first century, it is our hope that we shall build a new United Nations that will lead us in the direction of a new world of genuine peace, security, under an effective international order that would guarantee the well-being of all people and preserve the dignity of man, a world where the strong will not dominate the weak or the rich exploit the poor; a world where tolerance and well-being would not be far-fetched dreams. If we mobilize the full potential of mankind we shall be able, under the guidance of the United Nations and its agencies, to usher in such a brave new world. At the outset, I should like to express warm congratulations to the President of the General Assembly, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, a distinguished statesman and eminent jurist from friendly Portugal. We also follow with particular appreciation the actions of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, whose dedication to the cause of peace and economic and social development meets with universal approval. Three months ago, the celebrations of the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization were inaugurated at a meeting of Nobel Prize winners in San Francisco. Fifty years have passed since the end of the Second World War, which began with the aggression of the forces of the Third Reich against Poland in the early hours of 1 September 1939. As a historian and also an eyewitness to those days, I have a moral right to recall from this rostrum that it was Poland that put a stop to appeasement, a policy that was futile then and is futile today, a policy which, in the long run at any rate, never pays, anywhere. For Poland, the first victim of the Second World War, that war lasted the longest: five years, eight months and eight days. It ended in victory, but a victory which did not bring the Polish people complete freedom. It was only 45 years later that we achieved the goal for which Polish patriots had fought with dedication: a free and sovereign State in a new, democratic Europe. 5 Already during that most terrible of wars to date, thought was being given to peace and ways of making it endure. Mindful of their tragic wartime experiences, peoples and States sought to rid the world once and for ever of wars and the sufferings they inflict. That is how the United Nations was born. From the very start, Poland, a founding Member, has played an active part in the activities of the Organization, whose principal purposes were to preserve and consolidate international peace and security, ensure peaceful social and economic development and the right to a decent existence and promote respect for human rights. The cold war and East-West bipolarity swiftly dashed the newborn hopes for the relaxation of tensions and peace untroubled by political or ideological disputes. Although, happily, a global nuclear cataclysm has not come to pass, for which much of the credit is undeniably due to the United Nations, post-war history abounds with tensions, and humanity has, more than once, found itself on the brink of total war. Instead of providing for recovery from the ravages of war and for human well-being, increasing resources were spent on maintaining a singular balance — the balance of terror through the arms race. The world was divided at Yalta into two hostile camps. Many States, in Central Europe for instance, ended up in the Eastern bloc against the will of their people. If I refer to Yalta, it is not meant as a reproach for a pact that was so heinous for Poland: it is as a warning against future Yaltas, wherever they might be concluded or whomever they might threaten. We want a Europe without political or other divisions, for their consequences would be the same. Following the geopolitical transformations that originated in Poland in the 1980s and proved unstoppable in the face of the aspirations to freedom of the peoples of that part of Europe and of Asia, the world has become infinitely safer. East-West confrontation has disappeared, for ever, it is hoped, and the terms “East” and “West” have regained their old, purely geographical connotations. Yet the world, though no longer bipolar, has not been freed from conflicts. Hitherto dormant or suppressed, tides of nationalism have surfaced with renewed vigour, often fuelled by intolerance, ethnic and religious strife or outright racism. Six years after the commencement in 1989 of great changes in the world political map, the anticipated new international order has failed to materialize. The United Nations and all its Members are still actively looking for effective and equitable answers to the new problems that have emerged since the end of the cold war. These political changes present a unique opportunity to build a new system of peaceful cooperation, not of mere coexistence. Our desire is to seek a new world order, one that will ensure full security to all States and provide conditions for their swift social and economic development, while at the same time giving all individuals the opportunity to exercise fully their human rights, to which they are entitled. Of course, there would not be room for any kind of intolerance, manifestations of ethnic, religious or racial hatred, including shameful anti-Semitism. Poland is aware of, and acknowledges, the momentous role which the United Nations plays in the realization of these goals. An Organization founded by 51 States has grown to become a universal structure embracing almost all the countries of the globe. It is, however, not only the number of Members that has changed: its tasks have also kept growing steadily. While originally the political military question and decolonization predominated, in time the scope of United Nations interests widened, and today it would be hard to identify a single domain where the United Nations system is not involved. Expectations of the United Nations have grown likewise, often excessively, since they were not backed by sufficient political will to provide the Organization with appropriate instruments, which are indispensable if it is to live up to these expectations. I have in mind one of the basic fields of United Nations activities — conflict prevention and settlement. Here the United Nations lends itself relatively easily to attack. One overlooks, however, how much the character of conflicts now confronting the international community has changed. Conventional conflicts between States are now increasingly giving way to internal conflicts, as in Rwanda, in Somalia and, up to a point, in the former Yugoslavia. The traditional mediation role of the United Nations peace-keeping forces, discharged with the consent of the parties to a conflict, has frequently become impossible in present-day conditions. In many cases, United Nations peace-keeping missions come up against the dilemma of having to depart from the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of a State torn apart by civil war. Should one remain indifferent and ignore human suffering in such a situation? It is we, the States Members of the United Nations, which are often called upon to answer this question unequivocally, and we are not always able to do so. Inevitably, this adversely affects the success of the mission, the blame for which is all too often and all too easily placed on the United Nations. One tends to forget that we are the United Nations. 6 Poland takes the view that when a direct threat is posed to international peace and security, the United Nations — if it is to be an efficient instrument of collective security in accordance with the Charter — must be equipped to do its job. We can draw up a long list of conflicts and wars which were brought to an end thanks to United Nations efforts. Millions of human lives have been saved, owing to humanitarian relief action organized by the United Nations — but an equally long list can be produced of undertakings which ended in failure. The fiftieth anniversary should, no doubt, prompt critical reflection on the subject. Defeats and mistakes must not lead to the abdication of efforts. They should encourage the taking of steps to reform and remodel what must be changed, and thus make the United Nations a truly modern Organization, adapted to new circumstances and measuring up to the requirements of the period and its challenges. In today’s interconnected and interdependent world, even the most powerful nations cannot cope alone with such global issues as, for example, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the spread of drugs, hunger and poverty, the pollution of the environment, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), and increasingly rampant terrorism — in short, all the ills that are appearing as we approach the end of the century. Consequently, we need to bolster the trend towards enhancement of multilateral institutions, including the United Nations and its system. It was in this spirit that the President of Poland, Lech Walesa, spoke at San Francisco last June when he referred to the Organization’s shortcomings in critical terms. Poland is not only playing its full role in this process: the creation of a new international order is the focal point of its foreign policy at the subregional, regional and global levels. Fully sovereign and independent, today’s Poland is one of the largest and most populous countries in Central and Eastern Europe. It strives actively to contribute to ensuring the stability of a region of importance to Europe — a region that forms a natural geographical, cultural and economic bridge between Europe’s historically evolved parts. Hence, the basic task of the foreign policy of the Republic of Poland is active participation in, and a creative contribution to, the building of a new Europe — one without divisions and conflicts, ensuring well-being and security to all its inhabitants. In practice, this policy is manifested in unremitting efforts to integrate Poland into European and Atlantic structures, in acknowledgement of their role as guarantors of the security, stability, democracy and economic development of our continent. The priority of our foreign policy agenda is entry into the European Union. The Union had its origins in the days of the Marshall Plan, to which Poland declared its accessibility; this was subsequently withdrawn under pressure from outside. Because of the systemic differences and the delay in economic and social development that ensued in the intervening years, the process of adaptation is bound to be difficult, costly and protracted. We are, however, convinced that this is not too high a price to pay for joining a regional organization which, more than any other in history, has been able to ensure its members — apart from political integration — prosperity, a high level of social security and the highest standards of protection of individual rights and freedoms. Expansion eastwards by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European Union is synonymous with the consolidation of the zone of stability in this once conflict-prone region. In a foreign policy statement in the Polish Parliament four months ago, I said that Poland was not pursuing, and would not pursue, two different foreign policies: one Western and the other Eastern. In other words, while seeking to join Western European structures, we attach great importance to cultivating friendly relations and all-round cooperation both with our immediate and with our more distant neighbours. We are pursuing cooperation with these States within the framework of the existing subregional organizations and are working for its expansion. We are bound to our neighbours by treaties of good-neighbourly relations, friendship and cooperation. We will spare no effort to eradicate as soon as possible all vestiges of mutual prejudice and any grievances still harboured by our societies. Poland attaches major importance to the consolidation and expansion of such all-European organizations as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Council of Europe, and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (ECE). We support the OSCE role in resolving armed conflicts in our part of the world, in cooperation with the United Nations. We therefore welcome with satisfaction the Conciliation and Arbitration Tribunal established by the OSCE last May. Our active participation in the work of the Council of Europe results from our strong belief that it is of enormous importance in the process of dissemination, reinforcement and development of 7 democratic institutions and mechanisms for the protection of human rights on our continent. Finally, reference must be made to Poland’s contribution to the work of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. Thanks to its long experience in efforts to overcome the economic divisions that Europe inherited from the recent past, the ECE has a role to play in the process of the economic integration of Europe. At the same time, I wish to declare Poland’s strong support for the useful activities of the regional commissions in general. They should be responsible for coordinating, in each region, the local projects of the United Nations system, especially its specialized agencies, and become regional focal points for the promotion of sustainable growth and human development. The same applies to such subregional initiatives as the Central European Initiative, the Council of the Baltic Sea States, and the Central European Free Trade Association. While concentrating, understandably enough, on problems connected with the transformation of our political and economic systems, Poland is paying due attention to development processes and trends in the world at large. We are systematically expanding our economic and political contacts with nations on other continents. We are increasingly concerned at the scale of the economic problems looming in North-South relations. The development disparities and contrasts in this area call for an urgent intensification of the efforts of the whole world, and the more advanced countries in particular. We are not always in a position to provide developing countries with aid matching their expectations, but we shall provide it to the extent we can. We note with satisfaction the vitality of the Non- Aligned Movement, which has been cooperating with the United Nations for many years and which, despite so many changes, remains unfailingly active on the international stage. This Movement played a paramount role in bringing the era of colonialism to an end, has successfully assisted young nations to secure their rightful place in the world and is now laying the foundations for a new era of post-cold- war relations between States, free of global confrontation. Over the last three years, under the presidency of Indonesia, the Non-Aligned Movement has ably redirected its priorities in order to focus its attention on economic development. It embarked on this task on the basis of fruitful dialogue with the developed countries and has greatly contributed to narrowing the gap between the latter and the nations it represents. We take note in particular of the spectacular progress made by the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) in terms of development, and we acknowledge its efforts to extinguish old conflicts and prevent new ones, to build confidence and to search for new security formulas. Poland is interested in political dialogue and economic cooperation with this group of States, both bilaterally and within a broader Europe-Asia formula. Central Europe also has many characteristics and interests in common with the States of Latin America and their groupings. At the last session of the Economic and Social Council we gave forceful expression to our solidarity with Africa. We believe that cooperation with, and the provision of assistance to, the African continent is in the best interests of the international community. For its part, Poland is fully conscious of its obligations to the world community, as manifested by its active participation in the work of the United Nations — an organization where States, large, small and medium- sized, like Poland, participate democratically, as far as they can, in a mutual effort to transform the world. We are prepared to assume additional obligations in regard to international peace and security. That is why we have put forward our candidacy for non-permanent membership of the Security Council in the elections to be held during the current session of the General Assembly. Consistent with the obligations embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the maintenance of international peace and security is central to Poland’s foreign policy. Proof of our commitment to this goal has been the participation, since the 1950s, of soldiers and officers of the Polish army in United Nations peace- keeping operations, and more recently in those launched under the auspices of the OSCE. For many years now, Poland has traditionally been among the 10 States fielding the largest contingents in United Nations peace-keeping operations, despite its mounting financial problems due to the growing delays in the reimbursement of the expenses incurred. Poland is gravely concerned at the increasingly frequent instances of disregard for the status of peace-keeping personnel, such as Blue Helmets being attacked or taken hostage for use as human shields, a practice of which United Nations military observers from Poland have also been the victims. It is for this reason that the entry into force of the relevant Convention and its rigorous observance are extremely urgent. It is also essential to streamline the functioning of peace-keeping operations. We note with satisfaction the 8 progress already made in this field. However, recent events in the former Yugoslavia demonstrate the need for further steps to be taken to ensure the effectiveness of action, especially in emergency situations. This issue is particularly topical in view of the multiplication of extremely bloody and dangerous internal armed conflicts. The evident impotence of the international community in such situations is due to the fact that, as numerous examples in the last few years bear out, international organizations, by their very nature, are not prepared for active intervention in internal conflicts. These examples also demonstrate that the only possible basis for the resolution of an internal conflict is an accord between the warring parties. We therefore believe that the primary task of the United Nations is to strive unflaggingly, as it has often done so effectively in the past, to bring the parties to a conflict to the negotiating table, to broker an agreement between them and to supervise its implementation. The relevance of preventive diplomacy to both intra-State and international conflicts, and the United Nations role in that respect, were rightly recalled by my Australian colleague, Senator Gareth Evans. Another key facet of international security is the issue of disarmament. In this area we welcomed, with joy and relief, the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, arrived at last May by consensus. We pay tribute to the wisdom and farsightedness displayed by all participants, without exception, at the Review and Extension Conference in New York. The road that has brought the world to an unbelievable build-up of nuclear arsenals was long and costly. Today we realize that embarking on this same road in the opposite direction, towards disarmament, will be equally long, costly and complicated. The indefinite extension of the NPT was an act of enormous significance. The next task — no less difficult and just as momentous — will be the conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty, which should take place no later than in 1996. Special importance, in our view, should also be attached to the entry into force and practical implementation of the Convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons, an instrument which Poland ratified last July. In all these matters, Polish diplomacy has played, and will continue to play, an active role. Poland believes that progress in disarmament in the field of weapons of mass destruction should be paralleled by a simultaneous and equally tangible effort in the field of conventional weapons, a category of arms that over the last half-century has inflicted tens of millions of casualties in countless regional and internal conflicts. The inescapable conclusion is that the United Nations needs to go beyond the limited aims of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms and that the problems of conventional arms control and disarmament have to be put on the agenda of the Conference on Disarmament. This is important not only because of the specific nature of the contemporary conflicts the United Nations has to deal with, but also because of the need to put an end to the mounting wave of internal and international terrorism in an increasing number of countries. There can be no doubt that terrorism and organized crime in general, as well as illegal traffic in radioactive materials and drugs, represent today a serious threat to security. Determined action is therefore needed. Its success will depend on broad international cooperation within the United Nations system — I refer to the Vienna institutions — as well as outside the United Nations system. Economic development is an extremely important and, in recent years, increasingly significant sphere of activity of the organs of the United Nations system. Economic development problems, together with social issues, have been the subject of a number of major international conferences. The agendas of conferences already held and those of the ones to be convened in the next two years address virtually all development-related problems. What is now indispensable is to concentrate efforts on the conscientious and coordinated implementation of their decisions, a matter of which account should also be taken in the planned reform of the United Nations system. We appreciate the incipient changes that are appearing in the attitude of the Bretton Woods institutions with regard to the question of the social dimension of development processes, especially the elimination of poverty and unemployment. These issues clearly stood out at the Copenhagen social summit and at the session of the Economic and Social Council held in Geneva earlier this year. This bolsters the hope that the efforts of the poorer countries to cope with the contingencies of socio- economic development will obtain external financial support. We do not share the view that developing countries or, for that matter, nations that, like Poland, are in the throes of transformation, are contributing to unemployment in the more developed parts of the world. We do not accept the argument that trade with low-wage countries might threaten the economic stability of such developed countries. According to the findings of the latest studies by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the less-developed 9 countries represent, first and foremost, new markets that are of interest to multinational corporations. Let me note in this connection that Poland has been recently classified as one of the world’s 10 biggest emerging markets. Specific opportunities have also been created by the conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the establishment of the World Trade Organization. In the short term, however, the liberalization of world trade could be too great a challenge to the weakest partners, especially in Africa. We are in favour of safety-net arrangements for countries in this category. We also perceive a development paradox of our times: cut-backs in agricultural production in some parts of the world because of excessive stocks of food and for purposes of checking falling prices are paralleled by the existence of endemic famine areas in other parts of the world. In an interdependent world such as ours, there is something baffling in this situation. The United Nations should be the forum in which to address this difficult and conscience- troubling problem. The solution is not simply one of redistribution. The crux of the matter lies in helping these countries to help themselves by stimulating their capacity for self-reliance instead of perpetuating their dependence. Lastly, the third area crucial to the well-being of future generations, to which Poland attaches particular importance, is the question of human rights. Today, six years into the process of democratic change, Poland can pride itself on having a legal system which meets the most rigorous international standards in the field of respect for and comprehensive protection of human rights. Poland has not confined itself to taking care of internal problems in that regard. In the past few years it has been pursuing wide-ranging activities in the United Nations organs concerned with human rights and the development of international mechanisms for their protection. Undoubtedly, in this field the Vienna Human Rights Conference of 1993 was a landmark event. Polish diplomacy was extremely active both at the preparatory stage and in the course of the Conference. From the outset we strongly endorsed the establishment of the Office of High Commissioner for Human Rights, which was one of the principal achievements of the Vienna Conference. Since the appointment of Ambassador Ayala Lasso to this important post we have given him our full cooperation and support. Of its very nature, the United Nations does not have the means to force either States or armed groupings to respect the rights of citizens and to comply with international obligations in this field. Violations of humanitarian law and the laws of war are rife. The timid response to the systematic reports by the Human Rights Commission’s Special Rapporteur, the former Polish Prime Minister, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, of drastic violations of human rights in the former Yugoslavia resulted in his resignation from his mission. We note with satisfaction statements from this rostrum recognizing the significance of his endeavours. The upgrading of the status of human rights within the structure of United Nations organs, the General Assembly included, is essential. The basic tasks of our Organization in this field should be the promotion of permanent international dialogue on the protection of human rights, the development of mechanisms for overseeing compliance with international obligations and the increase of technical assistance by rich and experienced nations to countries which lack the necessary resources. Appropriate funds for this purpose should be made available to the High Commissioner and the Centre for Human Rights in Geneva. Ever since the foundation of the United Nations 50 years ago the tasks facing the Organization have grown in number and complexity. The political and economic environment in which these tasks have to be coped with also keeps changing, as demonstrated by the decisions of the latest major Conferences — in Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing. That calls for the continuous adaptation of the organizational structures and procedures to new tasks and changing circumstances. It is imperative to enhance the methods of cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations like the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the Organization of American States (OAS) and the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC). Equally important is the effort further to develop the system of international law so that it can regulate more adequately and with greater precision the rights and obligations of its subjects in the ever growing number of areas of their mutual relations. The importance of these problems, United Nations reform included, has not escaped the attention of our distinguished Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. The reform of the United Nations is therefore a pressing task. It is necessary in respect of the principal organs, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council in the first place, and the countless subsidiary bodies. Poland appreciates the results of efforts made so 10 far to enhance the work of the Security Council. As a result, we have a Council which is both more efficient and more than ever responsive to the need for greater transparency in its proceedings. Poland wishes to express its support for the acceleration of steps aimed at an appropriate expansion of the Council’s composition, to render it more representative without detriment to its effectiveness. The reform of the Organization must aim at upgrading its efficiency and remedying its financial situation, while keeping intact the basic principle of the sovereign equality of all its Members. However, the most important issue is efficiency, without forgetting that, as an intergovernmental Organization, the basic task of the United Nations is to cement partner-like cooperation between its Members, and recalling that it can act only on their authority. The ultimate success of the reform will be the best contribution we can make to the observance of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization. Let me add the voice of Poland to all those statements which, on the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, conveyed from this rostrum unequivocal assurances of confidence in the future of our Organization and in its ability to cope with the challenges that face us on the threshold of the twenty-first century. For its part, Poland is ready to participate in these efforts for the sake of future generations so that, in contrast to my own, they will never experience war, be it hot or cold, and so that they can live in a world founded on principles of cooperation, good- neighbourly relations and mutual trust. Half a century ago the representatives of some 50 nations met in San Francisco, in the United States, to create a new world order for the post-war period. The founding fathers sought to define rules and conduct enabling the countries of the whole world to live free and safe from the scourge of war. They gave the United Nations certain purposes that were as noble as they were ambitious, such as, to mention only a few, the maintenance of international peace and security; the promotion of progress and international development; respect for human rights and the rights of peoples; and international cooperation. While we rightly rejoice at the results obtained in some of these areas, we must note that in others, concern persists regarding the many internal conflicts and economic and social crises that confront some of our States. It was in an atmosphere of hope, but also uncertainty, that His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral was elected to guide the work of this session which must address the aspirations for peace and well-being of our peoples. My delegation is happy at his election and warmly congratulates him, convinced that his intellectual qualities and diplomatic skills will ensure success in our deliberations. We assure the President of our full cooperation. I wish also to pay a well-deserved tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, who skilfully guided the proceedings of our previous session. I should like to reiterate our deep gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who since his election as the head of our Organization has resolutely sought to find solutions to our world’s many problems. Our Organization has succeeded in sparing humanity a third world war, but areas of concern remain. Before addressing them, I should like to briefly describe the situation in my country, and particularly the efforts that my Government has made to solve both political and as socio-economic problems. At the last session the Chadian delegation described to the Assembly the progress that we had made towards the democratization of political life. Today I can report that this has become a tangible reality. We have put machinery and structures in place to enable the Chadian people freely and openly to choose their institutions and their leaders. I refer in particular to the Independent National Electoral Commission, responsible for supervising and monitoring the preparation of electoral rolls and organizing the various elections; the Supreme Council for Communications, charged with guaranteeing equitable access to the media to political parties, civil society and individual citizens; and the Constitutional Court, which is to settle electoral disputes, among other things. It is important to emphasize that all shades of political and social opinion are represented in these bodies. The liberalization of political life can also be seen in the existence of 53 recognized parties as well as a number of civil associations and trade unions. Moreover, a draft constitution agreed by all those involved in civil and political life will soon be put to the vote in a referendum. I can state from this rostrum that the democratic process is under way and that Chad is merely awaiting the various votes to conclude it. The President of the Republic, General Idriss Déby, stated at this year’s presentation of New Year’s greetings from the Diplomatic Corps that he was determined to do his utmost to ensure that the votes were transparent and took place in the best possible conditions. Despite this solemn commitment, some of those involved in political life, manipulated from abroad, are trying desperately to hoodwink national and international public opinion by 16 saying that the Government are responsible for delaying the votes. We reiterate the commitment of the Head of State and invite all those who wish to do so, to come to Chad and observe the various election processes. I should like to extend our thanks to the United Nations, which has already given us technical assistance. I also take this opportunity to appeal to countries and international organizations to help us properly to organize the elections. Because of the tumultuous history of my country, peace and stability are constant concerns of my Government, which seeks only to make a reality of the legitimate aspirations of the Chadian people to economic and social well-being. National reconciliation was rightly one of the main recommendations of the Sovereign National Conference, for trust and harmony among the people of Chad must be rebuilt. The establishment of a national reconciliation commission and the proclamation of a general amnesty and a unilateral cease-fire throughout the country are demonstrations of the avowed will of the Government to reunite Chadians. Some people in Chadian political life consider that the final step in achieving this objective is to organize a round table. The Government is in favour, as long as the other participants are not limited to the armed opposition and as long as it does not threaten the achievements of the Sovereign National Conference, the democratic process, or the established timetable. Political freedom is truly beneficial only when it is based on an economic situation from which all the population gain. My country faces an economic and financial crisis due to external factors, aggravated by desertification, an uncertain climate and the fact that it is land-locked. My Government has taken a series of measures to improve the financial situation, while strengthening its control over debt servicing and trying to exert similar control over the civil service and the army. These measures have had satisfactory results and should be supported by our partners. While we are pleased that the cold war has ended, there remain, as I said earlier, many matters causing great concern. The international community is confronting some problems that negatively impact on the evolution of our countries and require collective thought. With regard to peace, since the last session the picture has continued to be one of contrasts. In Angola, my Government is heartened by the progress achieved since the Lusaka Accords, which have opened up great prospects for the consolidation of peace and the reconstruction of the country. Similarly, we welcome the signing in Washington on 28 September of the agreement between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority. This is an important milestone on the path towards a just and lasting settlement of the crisis, which has lasted far too long. My country also welcomed the agreements reached by the Liberian factions on 19 August. With the setting up of the Council of State, we can hope that the six years of nightmare are now coming to an end for the people of Liberia. Elsewhere, the situation is much less favourable. Burundi, Rwanda, Somalia and Sierra Leone are still powder kegs, experiencing loss of human life and massive displacements of populations. My country is also concerned about the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the very heartland of Europe, where the spiral of war seems to hold sway over the logic of peace. We encourage the patient and tireless efforts of the international community to settle this conflict, with respect for the country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. We would make an urgent appeal to the various protagonists to demonstrate perspicacity and political courage in order to put an end to these human tragedies. Foreseeable causes of conflict in most States are behaviour and attitudes revealing a desire for hegemony that threatens territorial integrity and harms good- neighbourly relations. We must appeal to leaders to show wisdom and refrain from such conduct; rather, they should work together in a spirit of solidarity and mutual assistance to implement joint development programmes. For its part, Chad fully supports the principle of the peaceful settlement of all disputes. In this spirit, on the basis of resolutions of the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity and the Organization of the Islamic Conference, we again appeal for the lifting of the embargo on the Libyan people, which has a negative impact on neighbouring countries. My country supports the efforts under way in our Organization in the field of peace-keeping operations, 17 particularly in the consolidation of peace in various parts of the world. Thus, it is making its modest contribution to the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda.In the same spirit, Chad supports Argentina’s “White Helmets” initiative. Africa, for its part, took a decisive step by establishing, in 1993, a mechanism for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts; it is already operational. We call for close cooperation between the United Nations and this mechanism under Chapter VIII of the Charter and for multifaceted support from the entire international community. As a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, my country welcomes its indefinite extension. This is a major step, because, since the establishment of the United Nations, the prevention of the dissemination of nuclear weapons has been one of the major goals of Member States. Chad fully supports the negotiations currently under way in the Conference on Disarmament for the conclusion of a comprehensive test- ban treaty. My country welcomed the Secretary-General’s convening of an international meeting on mine clearance from 5 to 7 July 1995 at Geneva. We greatly appreciate the positive reaction of the international community, which, by announcing a contribution of more than $20 million, demonstrated its determination to struggle against this invisible, pernicious and constant menace. Chad, a large part — about one third — of whose territory is infested with mines of all types, supports the Secretary-General’s statement that, by damaging local communities, by contributing to emptying vast territories of their population and by preventing the return of refugees, mines are obstacles to economic and social development. Hence, we appeal to the international community to help my country rid itself of these death machines. The unbearable pictures of thousands of mutilated men, women and children throughout the world cry out to us. That is why my country stands ready to support any measure that would lead to the total prohibition of the production and sale of such weapons. Peace and development are the major objectives of our Organization. So far as economic and social development is concerned, in recent years many summits and conferences have been held with the goal of improving the living standards of peoples. But the results have not met the expectations. In fact, as the Human Development Report 1995 states, “More than three-fourths of the world’s people live in developing countries, but they enjoy only 16 per cent of the world’s income.” (Human Development Report 1995, p. 14) Africa, where the majority of the least developed countries are located, is in a most precarious situation. The continual decline in export income condemns Africa to such an increase in the servicing of its debt that any development activity is futile. What can one say about structural adjustment and economic liberalization measures, which frequently have a negative impact on the most vulnerable segments of our society? Most of the initiatives to promote the development of Africa in the 1990s have not brought the hoped-for results. We venture to hope that the Agenda for Development, as a prop for the Agenda for Peace, will foster a genuine spirit of solidarity and partnership in the international community. We believe that, 50 years after its creation, and despite the outstanding results it has achieved in some areas, the United Nations must continue to change in order to meet new and increasingly complex challenges. In this connection, we reiterate our support for the process of restructuring and revitalizing the United Nations in the economic, social and related areas. We emphasize, however, that this necessary action must not lead to marginalization of the developing countries. Chad has already expressed its position on the expansion of the Security Council, the organ with primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. The principle of equitable geographical representation must be observed. In conclusion, I should like to express the hope that our deliberations will be fully successful and that the twenty-first century will witness the beginning of a genuine rebirth of our international Organization, so that it can work decisively towards the greatness of mankind. The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m. 18 I am honoured to address the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I wish at the outset to extend to His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral my congratulations on his election to preside over the General Assembly. We are pleased that the stewardship of this anniversary session is entrusted to a distinguished and seasoned diplomat. I wish to express my confidence in his capable leadership and assure him of the cooperation of my Government in the discharge of the mandate of his office. In this connection I wish to thank his distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for his dedication and excellent guidance of the work of the Assembly during its forty-ninth session. I also wish to convey my Government’s gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts in the search for peaceful solutions to the many volatile situations and humanitarian and development issues around the world that are challenging the Organization’s attention. My Government takes this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to our neighbour, the Republic of Palau, the newest Member of the United Nations. A few weeks from today, Member States of the United Nations will join together to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, taking note of its accomplishments and its share of failures with a view to charting an effective role for its future. The new global map before us today presents the Organization with a unique opportunity as the primary global institution. The challenge of leadership is before us. However, this opportunity will be missed if financial resources and the political will of its Member States are lacking. In this connection we wish to support the statement made by the Chairman of the Group of 77 and by China last week with respect to the progress report of the High- 24 level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations. I also wish to express my Government’s strong support for the ongoing programme of reforms within the Organization. We support institutional reforms that will eliminate duplication of work, waste and fraud and thereby enhance the effectiveness of the Organization. With reference to the scale of assessments, my Government finds merit in the argument that the principle of the capacity to pay seems to have fallen by the wayside in the determination of assessments. Studies point out disturbing disparities in the existing scale as compared with individual Member countries’ share of the global economy. Naturally, it is the smallest Member States that are being penalized by such disparities. My Government associates itself with the report issued by the Committee on Contributions at its fifty-fifth session, held in June of this year, which called for a lowering of the floor. The issue of human rights, implicit in the United Nations Charter, has been the topic of many debates and international conferences in the context of the work of the United Nations. We welcome the programmes of action generated by these meetings and hope that the international community will find the determination to allocate the necessary resources for their implementation. My Government joined in the consensus of the parties for the unconditional extension of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) five months ago. With regard to the ongoing negotiations with respect to a comprehensive test-ban treaty, my Government welcomes the commitment by the United States to a zero- yield threshold, and we urge similar assurances by the other nuclear-weapon States. On the other hand, during the past few months we have been deeply troubled by the occurrence of nuclear-test explosions in China and the South Pacific. These events can be seen only as detrimental to the principles of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and endangering the prospects for success in negotiating a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. In the important area of development, my Government fully supports the ongoing work on the Agenda for Development and the call for new approaches that would elevate development and economic policy to their deserved place, on a par with world peace and security. In the Secretary-General’s recommendations of 11 November 1994, he stated that the “United Nations cannot be a strong force for peace unless it is also a strong force for development.” (A/49/665, para. 9) My Government fully associates itself with the declaration of the Foreign Ministers of the Group of 77 calling for restoration of the issue of development to the heart of the United Nations agenda, the centrality of the United Nations in promoting international cooperation for development and the creation of a balance between United Nations activities for development and its other activities. My Government welcomes the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in November of last year, as well as the establishment of the International Seabed Authority. While there is much work ahead in months to come with respect to the Seabed Authority and the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, we are confident that the spirit of compromise that brought us to where we are today will continue to prevail and guide our efforts. In this connection, my Government is also very pleased with the successful outcome of the negotiations on straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks this past July. My Government looks forward to the signing of the relevant agreement in December of this year. At this juncture, allow me to express my Government’s appreciation to Ambassador Satya Nandan of the Republic of Fiji for his excellent leadership as Chairman of the Conference on that subject. As Pacific islanders, we take pride in the immense contributions of one of our own sons. The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia is firmly committed to environmentally sustainable development. We urge all members to follow closely the crucial work of the Commission on Sustainable Development this year and to support the important work of Under-Secretary-General Nitin Desai and the Secretariat in this difficult but essential endeavour. In this connection, we continue to place great importance on the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. At its meeting last month the South Pacific Forum adopted the Convention to Ban the Importation into 25 Forum Island Countries of Hazardous and Radioactive Wastes and to Control the Transboundary Movement and Management of Hazardous Wastes within the South Pacific Region, also referred to as the Waigani Convention. It is an important arrangement that strengthens and supplements the effect of the Basel and London Conventions within our region. The subject of climate change and global warming, phenomena that are influenced by mankind’s emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, remains of deep concern to the people of the Federated States of Micronesia. Unfortunately, though, it seems that much of the world does not at present share our feeling of urgency regarding the continuing debate over this problem. The developments during the past year relating to the Framework Convention on Climate Change have to some extent been encouraging, but the process still suffers greatly from the strong political and economic forces that obscure the Convention’s clearly stated objective: the stabilization of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at safe levels. Everyone agrees that this objective can be reached only through difficult adjustments within the industrialized countries and assistance to the developing world in acquiring environmentally clean technologies. It is also understood that this must be done in stages over a certain period of time. But the first steps must be initiated at once. The First Conference of the parties of the Convention, held in Berlin earlier this year, made the very crucial determination that the initial undertakings by industrialized countries to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions were inadequate. Regrettably, the Conference did not see fit to adopt as a next step the protocol formally submitted by the Alliance of Small Island States, which would have applied a reduction formula endorsed by scientists back in 1988 as reasonable and necessary. Instead, the best the Conference could do was to mandate a working group to develop during the next two years a protocol or other legal instrument requiring specific future reductions. At the first meeting of this working group, held recently in Geneva, it was clear that powerful forces remain dedicated to defeating this process by whatever means they can apply. Opponents of the Framework Convention have been very ingenious in casting doubts over scientific knowledge relating to climate change, but we hope that the upcoming second assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change will establish once and for all the clear legitimacy of this concern and the need for action. The Panel has found, among other things, a likelihood of continuing sea-level rise of more than 18 inches, or half a metre, by the year 2100 if nothing is done. Besides the obvious disastrous effects upon islands and their populations, many heavily populated river deltas and their cities would be made uninhabitable. The eminent Director of the University of Maryland’s Laboratory for Coastal Research recently described the measurement of sea-level rise as the “dipstick of climate change”. I would respectfully suggest that while sea-level rise is certainly the indicator, it is our islands and low-lying coastal areas that are the dipstick, but we are helplessly fixed and immovable. I therefore call on this body at this session to take due notice of the accumulating knowledge relating to climate change and to reaffirm the urgent need for meaningful greenhouse gases emissions-reduction measures within the context of the Framework Convention. I am pleased to inform this Assembly that the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia has recently ratified the Convention on desertification, and my Government will deposit its instrument of ratification in due course. The Federated States of Micronesia sees an interrelationship between the three environmental Conventions — on biological diversity, climate change and desertification, respectively. And only through a collective approach and support can we have a chance to restore, protect and sustain our global environment. My Government joins in solidarity with all Members to work towards solutions through global cooperation. The current series of underground test explosions which France has carried out in the South Pacific, and which it is continuing in the face of unprecedented international outrage, is regrettable for many reasons, but I focus here on the particular danger which these tests pose to the environment of our Pacific region. The history of nuclear testing in the Pacific region, both north and south, is an ugly chronicle of willingness to gamble with the lives and homes of millions of island inhabitants. In the region of Micronesia, and in particular the Marshall Islands, despite broad assurances that testing was safe, we are learning only now, years later, that the disastrous effects on the health of island peoples have been far worse than science could have predicted at the time. 26 An established principle of international law prescribes that a State must ensure that its actions within its jurisdiction or control do not cause damage within other States or within areas beyond the limits of its national jurisdiction. That principle is embodied in article 4 of the Convention for the Protection of the Natural Resources and Environment of the South Pacific Region, otherwise known as the Noumea Convention. Together with nine Pacific countries and the United States, France is a party to that Convention. It is also an expressed principle in the Convention on Biological Diversity, to which France is also a State party. The Noumea Convention and the Convention on biological diversity also contain clear requirements regarding advance, transparent environmental impact assessments of projects which might have harmful effects on the environment. No in-depth, comprehensive environmental impact assessment of France’s underground nuclear testing programme in the South Pacific has ever been carried out. France has sought to reassure the world by saying that the test area will be open to any assessment desired, as soon as its present tests are over. Without question, France will bear a heavy responsibility to ensure against future leakage, the probability of which is very high. Picture the shattered substratum of a small atoll which has undergone over 120 nuclear explosions, one of which caused a tidal wave. Surely, each succeeding explosion increases the likelihood of leakage from the accumulation of radioactive materials concentrated below. In my Government’s view, the proposition deserves assessment before further tests proceed, especially since France’s obligation under both of the treaties I have mentioned includes observance of the “precautionary principle”. We hope that the collective voice of this body at this session will finally convince France that it must respect the interests of the Pacific region and the world by ending the nuclear degradation of Polynesian atolls and taking the necessary actions to prevent future radioactive leakage from them. A common thread throughout these remarks has been one of hope because, at its fiftieth anniversary, more than ever, this Organization is the greatest hope for a future in which nations, in cooperation with one another, can address the bewildering array of problems whose implications, while local in their effects, far transcend national boundaries. Our small, relatively young nation, remote and underdeveloped, joins with many others in similar circumstances in feeling blessed that, at this juncture in history, there is a sense of universality within the community of nations. At a time when the earlier “doomsday mentality” no longer lies at the foundation of international relations, it gives us hope that the passing of that phase will now make room for more serious contemplation of the future of the planet we all must share. It is good that we are celebrating this important milestone in human history, this fiftieth anniversary of our forum for the world’s nations, but if it is to be more than just a forum, we must all keep a vision of our purpose in coming here each year and in expending so much effort throughout the year at conferences and at home to exchange our respective views. In the end, we must find ways to transcend the national assumptions about each other and determine to create a level of real cooperation which will consolidate the effectiveness of our individual efforts. That is why today the United Nations is more important than ever — indeed, why it is crucial. It is through this Organization, and through no other, that the breakthrough to which I refer can be achieved. And so I close, as I opened, with reference to the opportunity that makes this Organization our strongest basis for confidence and our hope for the future. We know that we are not alone in these views, and we look forward to working very hard during this, the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, to do our part in making it, not only a well-deserved celebration, but a springboard to a bountiful future to which our descendants will look back and say, “They did not let us down.” It gives me great pleasure, on behalf of the delegation of Kuwait, to convey to Mr. Diego Freitas do Amaral our sincere congratulations on his unanimous election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We have no doubt that his election is testimony to his expertise and skills, which will guarantee the able stewardship of this historic session. I assure Mr. Freitas do Amaral of the support and cooperation of the delegation of the State of Kuwait. I take this opportunity to commend the President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, for his significant contribution to the work of this world body as well as for the wisdom he demonstrated as he presided over the deliberations of the last session. Let me also pay tribute to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his immense efforts to streamline the structure and operations of the United Nations with an eye to the constantly changing modern world. Also, I should like to put on record Kuwait’s support for the proposals put forward by the Secretary-General in his programme of action to deal with potential crises, the use of preventive diplomacy and the modalities of peacemaking and peace-building. In this context, special mention should be made of the Secretary- General’s annual report on the work of the Organization, which demonstrates incisive vision combined with a dispassionate and in-depth analysis of the challenges facing the United Nations. The report outlines in a responsible fashion the failures suffered in some of the activities and operations undertaken by the Organization. Next month, a great number of Heads of States or Governments will come to New York City to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations. This massive presence will reflect a genuine belief in the role of the United Nations in building a world founded on justice, equality, coexistence and cooperation, free of tension and aggression. Their 12 statements in this Assembly Hall will no doubt define their vision of the tasks the United Nations should undertake, their hopes for the ideal way of life that should prevail in the world and their determination to spare no effort in working for a better world. We cherish the wisdom of the founding fathers who established an Organization that embodies mankind’s collective effort and hope in a better world that would differ from the world of war and strife, which wrought enormous destruction in terms of geopolitical entities, property and human life. States were destroyed and entire human populations were annihilated to satisfy the capricious whims of individuals who were driven by greed and hegemony. The scale of sacrifice and devastation, and the toll in human life caused by the development of atomic weapons was too immense to ignore. In the wake of such destruction, the world’s leaders were determined to make the Second World War the last war the world should ever endure. The signing ceremony of the United Nations Charter in San Francisco was, in a sense, a universal pledge to renounce the use of force, to embrace peaceful coexistence and to shun the power politics of blackmail and hegemony. Regardless, the world continued to live thereafter in an environment that differed from the vision of the founding fathers of the United Nations. The intense bipolar strife that followed plunged the world in the maelstrom of a cold war that lasted for some five decades and spawned numerous regional conflicts with which the United Nations dealt within the constraints imposed by big Power rivalries. The inability to act was not due to impotence on the part of the United Nations but was the direct result of that bipolar rivalry. Notwithstanding, the Organization did manage to demonstrate its effectiveness in many a peace-keeping operation it undertook over the past decades and did manage to pacify many a volatile area. In point of fact, experience has shown, over the past few decades, that the presence of the United Nations in the areas of tension did prevent the eruption of conflict and war in several flash points while its absence increased the chances of war. In all this, the United Nations has been a true reflection of the will of its Member States and, during the cold war, it provided a war-prevention mechanism by creating buffer zones between the belligerents. It was effective in containing tensions and in creating a climate of peaceful negotiation. Over the years, the United Nations system has developed an array of effective and credible mechanisms, and gained wide-ranging experience and undoubted credibility that are employed to the common benefit of mankind. Over the past 50 years, since the adoption of its Charter, the United Nations has worked consistently to give real meaning to the dream of peoples all over the world, that of saving “succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which ... has brought untold sorrow to mankind” — as expressed in the opening paragraph of the Charter. In large measure, the United Nations has lived up to its initial commitment. Once the cold-war chapter was closed, the world started to edge towards rapprochement and meaningful dialogue. Once the arms race ended, an intense development-race started. The territorial-gains mentality gave way to a new commitment to intensive human development. Thus the new challenge facing our world now is the fulfilment of the immediate concerns of the human person and his or her right to live in dignity. The world was an arena of rivalry between the super-Powers; now it has become a vast battlefield in the war against poverty and backwardness. The world was a battleground for fighting between various blocs in different regions; now many regions are closing ranks in a common effort to combat illiteracy and want. While the world was the theatre of many a battle, now the world has but one battle, that of trying to break loose from the grip of underdevelopment and backwardness. We in Kuwait were in the forefront of donors for development. The volume of assistance we offered was the highest, in terms of gross national product, because we wanted to live in a world dominated by justice, a world whose hallmark is human compassion, a world in which the privileged will reach out towards the underprivileged without strings attached. Along these lines, Kuwait welcomes the trend towards the consolidation of relations between members of the family of nations on the basis of equality. We are part of a common effort to eliminate tensions. We rely on the collective will of nations to suppress aggression, and on global cooperation to confront underdevelopment. Against this backdrop, we cannot overlook the need for reform and restructuring inside the United Nations itself with a view to bringing the system more into line with these new objectives. In 1945, 50 founding Member States signed the Charter. Ever since, 135 other States 13 have joined the membership. Regardless, the Security Council, which is a major organ of the system, has, for example, retained its original structure — without change to reflect the enormous expansion in the membership of the United Nations. Nor has the Economic and Social Council shown, as yet, significant improvement in programme delivery, as dictated by the requirements of modern development, in the broad sense of such requirements, at the threshold of the twenty-first century. We call for expanding the membership of the Security Council in order to enable the larger membership of the United Nations to participate in the process of decision- making. The change, which would enhance fairness, should be effected in such a way as to ensure balance between the requirements of efficiency and of expansion. We also call for more transparency in the Council’s methods of work, for this, in our view, would reinforce our sense of collective participation and responsibility. We are also in favour of the trend towards better use of the resources of those States that can contribute significantly to peace-keeping operations and development activities. The people of Kuwait participate in the celebrations of the United Nations fiftieth anniversary with a deep sense of gratitude to the Organization for its crucial role in liberating Kuwait from occupation. The people of Kuwait recognize the firm resolve of the world community in rejecting aggression and its commitment to putting an end to occupation. We cherish the determination displayed in the series of successive resolutions adopted by the Security Council from the second day of August 1990, when the people of Kuwait, together with the rest of the world, were taken by surprise by the sneak invasion of the State of Kuwait by Iraq. That naked aggression was committed in total violation of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and international treaties. Beyond Kuwait, the invasion totally shattered the security and stability of the entire Gulf region. In facing up to that blatant aggression, the United Nations did indeed live up to its principles and was true to its mission. It did indeed stand firm in upholding justice and in defending the victim. Building on the Kuwait experience, it is our hope that the critical role that the United Nations can play will be fully utilized to further consolidate the underpinning of peace and to safeguard security and stability. The United Nations system can indeed provide deterrence in the face of those regimes that harbour schemes of aggression. There is a full range of measures and restrictions that the United Nations can put in place to ensure the isolation and curtailment of those aggressive regimes and, if need be, to strip them of their stockpiles of weapons that can be used in committing aggression. The ultimate goal of the United Nations is to ensure equality, mutual respect amongst Member States and respect for the will of peoples. This would be conducive to peaceful coexistence among nations and would create a favourable atmosphere allowing freedom of choice in a democratic climate, where the stronger cannot dominate the weaker, nor can a big country exploit a small neighbour, nor one party assume a privileged role to the detriment of others. Over a long period — since the end of the Gulf war — the Iraqi regime has continued to claim that it has fulfilled all its obligations under all Security Council resolutions relating to the situation between Iraq and Kuwait, especially resolutions 687 (1991) and 715 (1991), and thus blamed the Security Council and the Special Commission for the delay in lifting the sanctions imposed on Iraq. The Chairman and staff of the Special Commission, as well as the Security Council itself, have been harshly and offensively criticized by senior Iraqi officials and the regime-controlled media. In view of the recent dramatic surprises that unfolded in regard to the Iraqi armament programmes, a thoroughly legitimate set of questions arises — namely: Does the Iraqi regime have any more credibility? Who amongst us would be willing to accept Iraq’s statements at face value? Who would believe its claims, echoed at every gathering or forum, that it had met its obligations? What about Kuwaiti property and military hardware looted from Kuwait? Who can go along with Iraq’s assertions regarding Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners and hostages? The tragedy of Kuwaiti and other prisoners held by Iraq remains unresolved four years after the liberation of Kuwait. This is due to the intransigence and procrastination of the Iraqi regime, which continues to sidestep a straightforward and genuine resolution of this human tragedy. This represents a failure on the part of Iraq to fulfil its commitments under paragraph 30 of Security Council resolution 687 (1991), which demands that Iraq should cooperate fully with the International Committee of the Red Cross. Accordingly, Kuwait reiterates its appeal, to the Security Council in particular and to the world 14 community in general, to continue to bring pressure to bear on Iraq, in a bid to bring this painful episode to an end. Iraq’s false claims and lies that it is sincere in its efforts to close this case should be met with a firm stand. Indeed, this was the only course of action that forced Iraq in the first place to cooperate with the Special Commission. Iraq must recognize that participation in the meetings of the Tripartite Commission and its sub-committee is not an end in itself. The purpose of these meetings is to secure the freedom of prisoners and to account for the missing persons. The litmus test of Iraq’s cooperation in this area is the number of persons released or accounted for. Mere attendance at those meetings is an exercise in subterfuge, intended by Iraq to mislead world public opinion and to circumvent its obligations. The final objective of Kuwait’s overall policy is to ensure security and stability in our region. This goal will remain elusive unless and until Iraq implements fully and unconditionally all relevant Security Council resolutions. We are aware of the difficulties endured by the Iraqi people. However, the responsibility for the suffering of the Iraqis lies squarely on the regime itself which wasted valuable time since April 1991 in pursuing a futile course of prevarication, deception, suppression of data and misinformation in regard to every area of its mandatory obligations. The most recent events came to confirm our suspicions and fears, namely, the disclosure of the possession by Iraq of an arsenal of prohibited weapons of mass destruction, which were being prepared for use against peoples of the region without heed for the potential massive loss of human life. In the meantime, let me take this occasion to set on record that Kuwait affirms the need to maintain the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq. In view of the hardships faced by the Iraqi people, Kuwait has moved to send, through the Kuwait Red Crescent Society, food and medical supplies to the Iraqi civilian population in areas bordering Iran and in Northern Iraq. We will continue to pursue this policy on humanitarian grounds. In the context of international endeavours to bring about just, durable and comprehensive peace in the Middle East, Kuwait follows closely the ongoing peace negotiations between the immediate parties. We support the negotiations process. In our view, this process should be anchored in the set of principles agreed upon, namely, full withdrawal in return for peace. Also, progress should be made on all tracks of negotiations. And the final peace package should be satisfactory to all sides because this would be the real guarantee of a lasting peace. Kuwait did participate in the multilateral negotiations because we believed that our role within the multilaterals would strengthen the position of the Arab parties engaged in the bilateral talks and would eventually give momentum to the process as a whole. We fully appreciate the position of our sister State, Syria, which insists on full Israeli withdrawal from occupied Syrian territory in return for peace. Israel cannot attain full peace without complete withdrawal. In the same vein, international efforts should intensify to ensure full implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978) which requires unconditional Israeli withdrawal from all Lebanese territory and the exercise by the Lebanese Government of its sovereignty over all Lebanese territory, including the South. In the end, the territorial integrity and independence of Lebanon must be preserved. Furthermore, Kuwait supports the self-rule negotiations between the Palestine National Authority and Israel. In our view, the agreement signed yesterday in Washington, D.C. regarding the expansion of the self-rule arrangements represents an important step in the right direction towards the exercise by the people of Palestine of their right to self-determination and the establishment of their independent State. In this regard, let me recall that Kuwait has pledged $25 million in aid to the development programmes undertaken by international specialized agencies in the self-rule areas. Indeed, Kuwait has started disbursement of funds earmarked for those purposes. Also, we would like to underline the status of occupied Al-Quds, given its special significance to the three heavenly-revealed religions. We emphasize that Al- Quds is Palestinian territory under occupation and should as such be subject to the withdrawal conditions under Security Council resolution 242 (1967). Kuwait welcomes the recent developments aiming at achieving a fair settlement of the situation in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We expect such a settlement should satisfy the behests of international legality and be based on Security Council resolutions. In the wake of large-scale suffering, destruction and displacement, the 15 people of the region now yearn for an overall settlement that satisfies the demands of all parties, especially the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina who insist on maintaining their independent State on their own territory without any interference from outside. My Government values the role played by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the United Nations Protection Forces (UNPROFOR) in opposing territorial expansion by the Serbs at the expense of other parties, as well as the actions taken to lift the siege on Sarajevo. It is our hope that this joint NATO-UNPROFOR action will persist until the declared objective is attained, that is, the conclusion of a final accord that brings security and stability to the whole region. It is our sincere hope now that the most recent agreement reached several days ago will be honoured by the parties to the conflict. Experience has shown that regional groupings and arrangements can play an effective role in addressing contentious issues that create tension, impact adversely on peace and security and poison the relations amongst the people of a given area. These groups have also demonstrated a great sense of commitment in defusing flash points of tension that might undermine regional security. A case in point is the experience of the Gulf Cooperation Council whose member States are firmly convinced that understanding among them is crucial in steering away from frictions and tensions. To them, dialogue is an essential channel of confidence-building among neighbour States. Since our established policy considers negotiations as the only viable means of resolving disputes, we call upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond favourably to the call by the United Arab Emirates to resolve the problem of the islands occupied by Iran by the means suggested by the International Court of Justice. Such an approach would indeed reinforce the principle of understanding and negotiations to which we adhere as a primary component in relations among States. Kuwait is convinced that world peace is indivisible and that it has far-reaching multiple implications on all of us. Accordingly, ethnic disputes, tribal wars and factional conflicts should be addressed as phenomena that can lead to massacres and genocides and to a total collapse of the afflicted communities. Therefore, in this year which marks the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we ring down the curtain on the Rwanda tragedy before a solution is found, nor can we walk away from the catastrophe in Somalia, nor give up hope in the face of enormous odds in Afghanistan. All these remain burning issues despite the feeling by some Powers that they have moved outside the circle of global strategic limelight. We call for scaling up the efforts and showing more determination in addressing these festering wounds within the framework of collective world peace. The burden of debt is a major constraint on the budget resources of many nations, especially the developing ones. It aggravates their social problems and pushes up unemployment rates to a point where it undermines domestic security and stability and endangers the lives of millions of people. Back in 1988, His Highness Sheikh Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber, Emir of the State of Kuwait, launched from this rostrum an initiative to write off the foreign debt under which many least developed countries were suffering. Those countries have been victims of a complex host of factors that denied them the privilege of a calm life and indeed posed a real threat to their very existence. Kuwait, for its part, cancelled all interest on loans to these countries in a bid to alleviate their debt burdens. It is our hope that this approach would be expanded and that the developed nations would cancel the interest on their loans to the developing countries. The dreams of the Charter’s authors stood the test of time and transcended the tensions and limitations of the cold war. The era of the cold war was characterized by the stockpiling of weapons of mass destruction to the detriment of construction needs. It represented a hard drive to acquire the means of annihilation at the expense of the means of development. Prestige was put ahead of real meaningful growth. Human ingenuity was put in the service of human exploitation rather than in the service of enhancing human freedoms. That chapter is now over. And we have entered a new epoch in which we have to heed the rational calls for civilized conduct in order to build up an atmosphere of genuine brotherhood and harmony. This can only be achieved by our collective endeavour that emphasizes our universal identity. Only through such a common effort can we pool together the resources and energy of all peoples, big and small, to achieve a strategic consensus that would translate into a reality the dreams envisioned 50 years ago when the Charter was signed. There is, of course, a special resonance to the congratulations we offer the President on his election to this high post at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. In this watershed year, his job will be particularly challenging. The delegation of Belize pledges its fullest cooperation in helping to ensure the success of his stewardship. All the world is conscious of the historic significance of this fiftieth anniversary year. And a lot of work has gone into the process leading up to this session. We also at this juncture, then, express our thanks to the President’s predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, and those whose job it has been to supervise and implement the preparatory effort. If this is a year of celebration, it is also a year of reckoning. Inevitably, the jubilee has concentrated attention as never before on our Organization. Can we withstand the scrutiny we provoke? Is our record one that, on balance, vindicates the vision of the founders? And in a world that is almost unrecognizably transformed since 1945, are we equipped for the changing role the United Nations must now play? Well over 100 States have come into being since 1945. The myriad issues that now dominate the global agenda are attended by a host of problems. The duties and burdens of the United Nations system have therefore proliferated hugely. Can the United Nations cope? And are we, the Member States, prepared to invest our enterprise with the resources necessary to deal with the new realities. These, it seems, are the questions most urgently in need of answers. In thinking of the future, though, we would do well to look at the past. And I would wish briefly now to examine our historical record, highlighting some issues of special relevance to small countries such as Belize. Just four days ago, Belize celebrated the fourteenth anniversary of its independence. It was an independence long delayed by the territorial claim of a neighbouring country. But it the end it was an independence made possible in no small measure by this Organization and its role in world affairs. One of the things that in the first place made our aspiration for sovereignty realistic, was the seminal 1960 General Assembly Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. And the United Nations thereafter became our guiding star as we steered our course between the Scylla of the historical colonialism from which we were escaping and the Charybdis of the recolonization that was inherent in the territorial claim. During the years of our independent existence, this Organization has similarly continued to be a bedrock of our viability. The principles enshrined in the Charter, and the international legal order derived from those principles, have been a welcome guarantee of our sovereignty. The territorial claim has not gone away. But the norms imposed by the United Nations, especially those requiring pacific settlement of disputes among Member States, have at least helped to keep it from confounding our integrity. Who can doubt that, in one form or another, this salutary experience of Belize with the United Nations has been replicated by any number of small countries? Because of the multiplication of new States, especially since 1960, the international order has been characterized by an unprecedented differentiation in underlying power capabilities between the huge and the tiny. Very weak States can, of course, never seriously hope to influence international behaviour solely through the use of their national power capabilities. What the United Nations has done for us, then, has been to offer a plenitude of sustenance via its many entities and constituent groupings. In effect, the set of opportunities created by the character of post-Second-World-War international organizations that have been the United Nations and its progeny has made sovereign equality a very real concept, power asymmetries notwithstanding. For small States, certainly, the political and diplomatic vitality of the United Nations system is a matter of undeniable fact. Nevertheless, the United Nations should continue to enhance cooperation with regional organizations, as it did last session when this Assembly resolved to institutionalize cooperation with the Caribbean Community. Belize was honoured to introduce that resolution. Likewise, the principle of inclusiveness should be employed to ensure that States in the various regions of the world, including Asia and the Pacific, are not confined to incomplete participation in the international order. 22 I turn now to the economic sphere. The record of our Organization is, I am afraid, rather less compelling. It is true that various organs of the United Nations system — the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) — have provided small States with an unprecedented forum for the articulation of our concerns. Even now, Belize prepares to assume its elected seat on the Executive Board of the United Nations Development Programme. But continuing large disparities in wealth between rich and poor countries, the debilitating debt consuming us in the developing world, the unemployment, the persistent poverty, speak volumes as to the absence of sufficient progress on this front. Since the last general debate, the World Trade Organization has come into being. In the Americas, the Hemispheric Summit is now a matter of record. But we note with regret that, even as liberalization advances, the call of the disadvantaged for special and differential treatment goes unheeded. This is accompanied by the continuing volatility of the international trading and financial systems, and the well-known vulnerability of small countries to external shocks. For us in Belize, negative economic trends among our major trading partners have had a baneful effect. This, in turn, has served to heighten our concern over the nature and pace of globalization. The structural changes that fragile economies need to make in order to be in step threaten to swamp us. But no one seems to be paying attention. Perhaps new forms of regionalism are the answer. One arguable example is the new Association of Caribbean States, which will create the world’s fourth or fifth largest market area and of which Belize is the geographical centre and the cultural bridge. Yet it is essential, we contend, that the international community exhibit full sensitivity to the condition of smallness. We remain highly susceptible to changes in the global marketplace; and adverse developments then impose additional setbacks on us in the areas of competitiveness, development finance and overall fragility. For Belize, the recent crisis in neighbouring Mexico, starkly dramatized our own precariousness. Generally, we think, the impact of the events in Mexico on the markets and economies of other countries serves as a clear warning. It is foolhardy to believe that inflexible social and economic formulas can be applied uniformly to our differing circumstances. Heedless adjustment and implacable time-tables might well condemn small economies to extinction. Indeed, many of our small countries have already made strenuous efforts at stabilization and reform. We have liberalized trade, reduced fiscal deficits and privatized State enterprises. But where are the rewards? We continue to be overcome by debt, by poverty and by woefully inadequate social and physical infrastructures. And our difficulties are exacerbated rather than solved by the austerities that reduce government spending and curtail our public sector investment programmes. Time is not on our side, as economic and fiscal orthodoxy bear inexorably down on us. Our constituencies continue to press us: Where is the understanding of our plight? Why is there is no capital inflow revival? What is to be done about the alarmingly high rate of unemployment? When will we see the special mechanisms to assist us with retraining, the moulding of new technologies, and the critically needed human resources development? Can we ever seriously hope for the dedicated financial resources that must underpin any serious effort at diversification? We are being told that this liberalization advance — this march of the martinets — is the panacea for our ills, but the evidence to the contrary is quite startling. For our domestic producers, for our banana farmers, it is a bitter joke. Global free trade, it seems to many of us, is like the Holy Roman Empire: not holy, not Roman, not an empire. The Bretton Woods institutions certainly need to demonstrate more creativity. Their too-rigid reliance on the prevailing orthodoxy is choking us. Democracy in small countries will not be worth a fig if this auto-da-fé- type insistence on these articles of faith is not leavened by a real appreciation of our peculiar needs. It is in this context that we also call for this Organization to promote true global cooperation in efforts towards sustainable development. This shared quest must be the essence of the economic relations and the development dialogue between the North and the South and among the developing countries themselves. My Government certainly pledges full support for the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Unit on South-South Cooperation, well exemplified by the Ruta Maya tourism project of our Central America. We also 23 call for support for strengthening the Alliance for the Sustainable Development of Central America, a major initiative for developing what we call our delicate filigree isthmus. And we welcome such relationships as Belize’s recently concluded joint implementation pilot programme under the Climate Change Convention. The overarching goal of our precursors was “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”. Well, how have we been doing on that score? In the sphere of peace and security, some grave developments have taken place in various parts of the world. In several places genocidal impulses have been let loose, with predictably devastating results. Paradoxically enough, the end of the cold war has resulted in an upsurge of civil and territorial strife. Fratricidal conflicts have been launched to the drumbeat of overblown notions of history and dangerous concepts of ethnicity. For all the Assembly’s efforts, we continue to experience a relative stalemate in Cyprus and elsewhere. The Balkan conundrum still seems intractable, though we note with encouragement that this Organization has recognized that there is a limit beyond which forbearance ceases to be a virtue. Rwanda refuses to go away. Yet we hail now the breakthrough in Palestine, and we again rejoice at the continuation of peace and stability in South Africa. In Namibia, Mozambique and Angola, the United Nations has assisted, or is assisting, in bringing civil wars to an end. In my own part of the world, the continuing United Nations partnership with the people of Haiti is consolidating reconstruction and democracy in that Caribbean country. Despite the limitations on our resources, Belize is happy now to be able to play a commanding role in the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM) sub-unit of the United Nations Mission in Haiti. Likewise, the United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador is successfully overseeing efforts to cement the newly minted peace. In Guatemala, the dialogue between the URNG and the Government, begun under the auspices of our Secretary-General, is proceeding apace. My Government takes great satisfaction in the calm that reigns almost universally on our continent, from Hispaniola to Tierra del Fuego. The disappearance of authoritarian Governments in Latin America and the resolution of most of our internal conflicts is bringing liberty and democracy to all our peoples. Our efforts can therefore be committed fully now to the business of fostering economic and social development, human rights and the protection of the environment. As the first-ever Defence Ministerial Meeting of the Americas confirmed, our militaries are fully cognizant of the new role they must play in supporting this process. We therefore applaud the strong and clear views on nuclear sanity expressed during the Conference on the extension of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and currently being reiterated. This delegation reaffirms its own view that the parties to the NPT have now invested in the nuclear Powers a trusteeship that those Powers must zealously discharge. At the same time, we must be equally aware of the other danger: the continued production, trade and use of all types of so-called conventional weapons that harm, maim and kill. In the context of more general concerns, we cannot escape the overdue obligation to rationalize also the structure of the Security Council, so that the veto is tamed and equity and democratization take centre stage. We continue to insist that all regions obtain balanced and equal representation as permanent members; small countries be brought into the Council’s decision- making; and consideration be given to such devices as multipartite seats or constituency groupings. One final word on the question of peace and security. The Secretary-General has stressed the multitude of new demands for peace-keeping made upon the Organization as conflicts erupt around the world. The caution has been expressed that the increased burdens in this regard should not displace the attention that economic and social questions demand. Of course, the two are interrelated. It is a truism that there can be no development without peace. We would content ourselves, then, with merely urging that we put in place a more coordinated system to embrace peace-keeping and conflict resolution as well as human rights and social and economic development. Also, the non-traditional threats to peace and security must be addressed. In recent years we have witnessed growing links among organized crime, drug trafficking, terrorism and the spread of armaments. The dangers from this phenomenon are all the more insidious for being 24 novel. We must therefore quickly develop the international cooperation measures to deal with it. So, as this Organization completes its fiftieth year, we in Belize are well convinced of its continuing vitality. The jeremiads of those that bemoan its failures are not for us. While we are not going to be Pollyannaish about what is admittedly a mixed record, we see enough to be sanguine about. There is extraordinary cooperation on the part of States, other political entities and non-governmental organizations in the dozens of areas of substantive concern of the United Nations organs; in the burgeoning, multidimensional sphere of sustainable development; in the territory where humane concerns and values, social ordering and cultural norms coalesce; and in the field of peace-keeping, of providing States and peoples with security from violence and disorder. Of course there is still a long way to go. And we will never truly realize the vision of the founders unless Member States agree to provide the future United Nations system with adequate, reliable and predictable resources. Let us therefore, during this our half-century session, determine to enhance our effectiveness. Let us rationalize, let us economize. Let us pay our dues in full and on time. And let us intensify the quest for agreement on autonomous financing for the Organization and for related activities. Above all, let us dedicate ourselves to universality and pledge to enlarge our image and re-energize the world. For that day may still be greatly postponed when our resolutions and decisions, rather than blood and iron, will summarily determine the great international questions. But in continuing efforts at global conflict avoidance, we are still, if the Assembly will forgive the colloquialism, the only game in town. In other words, true international peace and security can only ever come by way of the United Nations, which remains the last, best hope for mankind. I am delighted to address the General Assembly in the year of its fiftieth anniversary. On behalf of the Nigerian delegation, I convey warm congratulations to the President on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. We are confident that in carrying out his duties he will bring his wisdom, competence and diplomatic skills to bear on the work of the Assembly. We congratulate his friendly country, Portugal, and reaffirm the warmth of the bilateral relations between our two countries. Let me also convey our sincere thanks to his distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for the outstanding manner in which he conducted the affairs of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I also wish to express my delegation’s appreciation to the Secretary-General for the courageous manner in which he is responding to the challenges of his office. The uniqueness of the current session is not lost on my delegation. It is not only a solemn occasion to reflect on the achievements and difficulties of our Organization during the past 50 years, but also a golden opportunity to chart a new way forward. We therefore hope that the work of this and future sessions of the General Assembly will continue to be inspired by the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. The establishment of the United Nations in the aftermath of the Second World War marked a turning point in the history of international relations. As an intergovernmental Organization whose principal tasks include the maintenance of international peace and security, the promotion of international cooperation for 7 development and the progressive development and codification of international law and respect for human rights, the United Nations best epitomizes the will of the peoples of the world to live together. We in Africa attach great importance to this fiftieth anniversary, as in 1945 the vast majority of our countries were not independent and therefore could not participate in the processes leading to the signing of the United Nations Charter in San Francisco. It is gratifying, however, that from being represented by only four countries on that occasion, Africa has since grown to be the largest regional group within the Organization. This is in accordance with the universalist aspirations of the United Nations. The phenomenal growth in membership evokes happy memories of the transition of a large number of Member States, particularly from Africa and Asia, from colonial dependencies to nationhood. For many years the United Nations was the catalyst in this process. Our continental organization, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), from its inception in 1963, similarly embraced this objective as a primary preoccupation. It was my country’s privilege to be associated at the regional and global levels with the struggle against apartheid and for freedom and self-determination on the continent. The United Nations is perhaps best known for its endeavours in the maintenance of international peace and security. This remains a major preoccupation, as events since the end of the Cold War have demonstrated that civil conflicts and political instability in many countries, particularly in the developing world, have become endemic, with grave consequences for international peace and security. These conflicts, which have their origins in, among other things, new nationalisms, ethnic differences and religious bigotry, constitute a test of the international community’s will to meet the new challenges and provide appropriate solutions. On this occasion, therefore, it is the hope of the Nigerian delegation that the Assembly will make sustained efforts to take decisions that will significantly enhance the prospects of global peace and security. We expect that further thought will be given to redefining the role of the United Nations and its perspectives on preventive diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building as continuing imperatives in crisis management and conflict resolution. Given that the maintenance of international peace and security is a shared responsibility, the United Nations should undertake to realign and strengthen its cooperation with regional organizations and arrangements. This is not to underestimate the need for Member States to make serious efforts to prevent war and civil conflict through confidence-building measures and the formulation and implementation of appropriate domestic policies. In this regard, we cannot but reaffirm the continuing validity of the peaceful resolution of disputes through mediation, conciliation, arbitration, judicial settlement and respect for applicable international laws. We deplore the growing arms race and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, on which vast resources are now being wasted. The nuclear genie has left the bottle and cannot now be led back into it; the trauma of Hiroshima and Nagasaki persists and continues to haunt the international conscience. Let us therefore resolve that such a tragedy will never happen again. The time for disarmament under effective international control is now. Although progress towards the achievement of general and complete disarmament has been slow, we would like to commend the United Nations for its role in this sphere. Nigeria regards the agreements banning biological and chemical weapons as landmark arrangements. We must remain committed to the ultimate goal of the total elimination of all weapons of mass destruction. On its twenty-fifth anniversary, in May of this year, the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) was extended indefinitely. Developments since then have seriously undermined the confidence we have all reposed in the Treaty and its regime, and have regrettably cast major doubt on the commitment of Member States, particularly the nuclear Member States, to disarmament. In our view, efforts to achieve this must remain fundamental and include the conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear- test-ban treaty by 1996, the cut- off in the production of fissionable materials for weapons purposes, and the granting of security assurances by the nuclear-weapon States to non-nuclear-weapon States in a legally binding instrument. In our continuing efforts to ensure a peaceful and secure environment for the development of the African continent, Nigeria is delighted to welcome the successful completion of the negotiations on the Treaty of an African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone, which was endorsed by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Council of Ministers in June 1995. By this action, African leaders 8 have given concrete expression to their collective commitment to make the continent a nuclear-weapon-free zone. It is our expectation that during this session the international community will respect this initiative through the endorsement of the Treaty. We hope that the nuclear- weapon States will ratify the protocols to be annexed to the Treaty. The framers of the Charter of the United Nations did, in fact, recognize that peace and development go together. Among the high purposes of our Organization is the promise of economic and social achievement by all peoples. To this end, a good deal of effort has been made by the United Nations and its agencies to support the implementation of programmes of action initiated by developing countries at national, subregional and regional levels. We commend these agencies for their efforts in tackling the problems of social and economic development. In discussing the general issue of development, we recognize the primacy of the United Nations in promoting international cooperation for development. It is in this connection that we have welcomed the contribution of the Secretary-General in his Agenda for Development. For us in Africa, development is a question of survival. We place a particular premium on it as we confront the challenges of poverty and underdevelopment. While the unsatisfactory economic situation of Africa has been the subject of many international conferences, the resulting programmes of action have remained largely unimplemented. Such programmes include the United Nations Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and Development 1986-1990 and the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted in 1991. The failure to implement these programmes has been due primarily to the lack of will and acceptance of a concept of economic interdependence by our development partners. Yet, it remains important that development should be seen as an integral and indivisible whole, an objective to be pursued collectively in the global economy. The economic crises confronting the developing countries are multifaceted. I would, however, like to stress the pre-eminent need for the international community to resolve the external-debt crisis, which is a key impediment to growth and development in our respective countries. Most African countries devote a large proportion of their foreign exchange earnings to debt-servicing. It has, therefore, been difficult for these countries to also pursue sustained economic development objectives. It is clear that Nigeria — as, indeed, most other countries of our continent — faces limited possibilities for the implementation of their economic reform programmes without urgent and adequate debt-relief measures. We believe that development cooperation should engender genuine interdependence, mutual interest and benefits in the context of global partnership. In the expectation that the developed countries will support and indeed assist the developing countries in their development efforts, we call for fuller cooperation between the two sides. The initiative to hold the Asia- Africa Forum in Bandung, Indonesia, in December 1994, as a follow-up to the Tokyo International Conference for the Development of Africa, was bold and imaginative. The conclusions and recommendations of these initiatives, which are also critical, need to be faithfully implemented. The integrated approach to development being pursued by the United Nations is right and deserves to be commended. In this regard, we welcome the outcome of the recently concluded World Summit for Social Development and Fourth World Conference on Women. These conferences have helped to promote women in development and to enhance their role in public affairs. We acknowledge the interdependence of societies as underscored by these conferences, and the fact that all cultures have a contribution to make at the crossroads of civilization and development. While recognizing the achievements of the United Nations, it is fit and proper, at this point, to identify also those areas in which the Organization has not fully realized its objectives. On peace and security, it should be acknowledged that the United Nations has a commendable record of success. Since its founding, it is significant that there has been no global war and that the end of the cold war has enhanced the prospects for cooperation and the lessening of tension. However, new conflicts have emerged which have defied solution by the United Nations. It is evident that the challenges of peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building require new perspectives and commitments from Member States. Moreover, while seeking to provide solutions to these conflicts, the United Nations must accept that it has a limit to its capacity. It should, therefore, not micromanage the internal political arrangements of countries in conflict. It is equally important that the United Nations be seen to be transparent and even-handed in crisis management in all regions. Furthermore, the United Nations should do more 9 to cultivate and cooperate with regional organizations and arrangements in conflict resolution. On decolonization, the balance sheet of the United Nations performance is largely positive. However, the legacies of colonialism and the challenges of nation- building have created difficulties for new States. These difficulties have resulted in the inability of many of the new States of the developing world to conduct their domestic and external relations in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Charter. The experience of a number of these States indicates that powerful members of the international community continue to insist on their models as standards for universal behaviour and application. The political and economic lives of the new States are further circumscribed by international financial institutions dominated by the economically strong. These institutions, which are as old as our Organization, have yet to adapt to the new economic realities and needs of the new States they seek to serve. With regard to development, the objectives of the Charter have remained largely unfulfilled in view of the growing economic disparities between a minority of developed countries and the vast majority of countries which are classified as developing. Regrettably, dialogue between the North and the South, which is vital to effectively address this imbalance, has reached a deadlock. This dialogue needs to be relaunched in order to achieve a just and equitable world order for sustainable development. Since joining the United Nations 35 years ago, Nigeria has played its part in upholding the purposes and principles set forth in the United Nations Charter. It has also pursued its objectives with dedication and commitment. From decolonization to peace-keeping, we have spared neither efforts nor resources in fulfilling our obligations under the Charter. Our record in peace-keeping speaks for itself. Within the ambit of South-South cooperation, Nigeria has extended assistance to other developing countries, particularly in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific. In our subregion, we are in active partnership with the countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to accelerate development through cooperation. It is our hope that ECOWAS will become an essential component for continental integration as envisaged under the Abuja Treaty on the African Economic Community. To avoid any doubt, I wish to state that we in Africa have long accepted that the primary responsibility for the development of our continent rests squarely on our shoulders. But the reality of our experience is that we have had to fight on the two fronts of political and economic reforms at the same time. Few regions of the world have borne such excruciating burdens in their development process. This calls for understanding and encouragement rather than indifference and benign neglect. Consequently, in addition to regional integration efforts, we in Nigeria have undertaken bold economic and political reforms. On the economic front, the current Administration in Nigeria has deregulated the economy and created new incentives for domestic and foreign investments. On the political plane, Nigeria has embarked on courageous reforms. In spite of unforeseen difficulties and the complexities of the Nigerian situation, we have continued to make steady progress in our determined efforts to establish a veritable and enduring democratic polity. Indeed, only three days ago my Head of State, General Sani Abacha, announced a comprehensive programme of transition to democratic rule and the final disengagement of the military from power. This programme was carefully drawn up taking into account the objective realities of our national situation to ensure not only an orderly transition, but also the institutionalization of durable democratic structures of governance at all levels. While we recognize and appreciate the understandable concerns of our foreign friends and the international community at large, we hope that due support will be given to our endeavour in the full realization that a democratic Nigeria, the most populous black nation on Earth, is an asset to itself and has much to offer the international community. In order that the United Nations might be better equipped to discharge its responsibility as a forum for harmonizing the actions of nations, it is essential that the ongoing process of revitalization and institutional reforms be intensified. This is necessary if the United Nations is to assert its central role in the establishment of a new world order. It is also vital if the United Nations is to truly reflect the equity and geographical balance that are critical for its efficiency and authority. Nigeria, therefore, reaffirms its support for the expansion of the Security Council both in its permanent and in its non-permanent membership and, in this connection, my delegation renews the offer made by our country to serve the international community as a permanent member in the expanded Security Council. 10 As we look to the future, it is obvious that the effectiveness of the United Nations will depend on the collective will and support of its entire membership. There are two levels of responsibility in ensuring a strong and vibrant United Nations. The first is what the United Nations itself must do; the second, and more important, is what we the Member States accept to do to enable the Organization to respond effectively to our collective quest for peace, freedom, justice and development. In pursuit of these objectives, Nigeria is determined to continue making its contributions. First of all I should like to welcome the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement being signed today in Washington by Yasser Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin. This show of reconciliation should be an example to parties in various conflicts the world over. As the United Nations celebrates its fiftieth anniversary, it is time to look to the future. The world is different. The end of the cold war, the spread of democracy, economic globalization, and the explosive growth of communications have led to far-reaching changes. Distances between people are shorter, national boundaries are more open and global interdependence is increasingly apparent. Security is no longer primarily a military matter. Security also implies building confidence, justice and equal opportunities to achieve lasting and sustainable peace, both within countries and through closer cooperation between countries and peoples. Such cooperation is needed at the regional and global levels. Further enlargement of the European Union would be a step towards a pan-European community for peace and security. We have a historic opportunity to create a united Europe, ultimately developing integration and cooperation to a point where war becomes inconceivable anywhere on our continent. In my vision, the European Union must be a genuine peace project, opening itself towards the rest of Europe and the rest of the world. At the same time, major threats to human security are global. They must be met by global action. Thus, we must revitalize the United Nations system, and adapt the Organization to the new reality. We need an effective instrument for global cooperation — for peace and security, for sustainable development, for justice and for a life in dignity for all. We are more convinced than ever that, with 50 years of experience, the United Nations is an indispensable tool 8 for achieving these goals. Fifty years of experience have strengthened our support for the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. In pursuit of these goals, United Nations personnel all over the world are making major contributions. They merit our deep gratitude. We pay special tribute to those who have lost their lives in the service of the world community and we extend our sympathy to their families. Appalling pictures of human suffering in Somalia, Rwanda and former Yugoslavia force their way into our homes. We see the United Nations humiliated. The apparent shortcomings of the world Organization have sown doubts about the feasibility of multilateral global cooperation. But the problems of the United Nations are in fact those of its Member States. They result from a combination of growing needs and expectations, on the one hand, and insufficient resources and a lack of political will, on the other. Sweden’s former Prime Minister, Olof Palme, developed this theme in a speech he gave from this rostrum 10 years ago at the special commemorative session to mark the fortieth anniversary of the United Nations. He said: “Let us not make the United Nations the scapegoat for problems that reflect our own shortcomings. It is not the United Nations that has not lived up to us; it is we who have not lived up to the ideals of the United Nations. It is by improving ourselves and our policies that we can improve the United Nations.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fortieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 43rd meeting, p. 64) Let us not curse the dark but instead shed light. Let us draw lessons both from the more difficult United Nations operations of recent years, and the more successful ones — El Salvador, Namibia, Mozambique and Cambodia. We have learned that we must take action at an early stage, before the catastrophe is a fact, before the genie of violence has escaped from the bottle. The United Nations Charter offers plenty of scope for preventive efforts. Action must be undertaken with the consent of the States concerned and their sovereignty must be respected. We appeal to Governments: in an internal conflict accept the assistance offered by the United Nations or by a regional organization. Prevention is seldom glamorous. It does not make headlines. Long-term, often tedious, work, with the focus on the fundamental causes of conflicts, must be backed up by deliberate political support. More resources must be earmarked for preventive measures. This is an investment that is needed if we are to avoid new tragedies. The Swedish Government is currently studying how to improve the United Nations capacity for early-warning and preventive action. We have learned to focus on the security and needs of human beings. Our goal must always be human coexistence, irrespective of cultural, religious or ethnic differences. We must never confine ourselves to drawing up maps that reflect the realities of power politics. We must never accept the evil of “ethnic cleansing”. If we do, we will ultimately threaten ourselves and our future. We have also learned the importance of the principles of international law and respect for human rights. Humanitarian law must be defended and reinforced and war crimes investigated. For example, we must find out what happened to those who disappeared in Srebrenica and Zepa. By bringing war criminals to trial we will enhance respect for humanitarian law. Perpetrators of cruelty, rape and torture must be made to understand that they cannot act out their perversions with impunity. We support the international criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and the Rwanda tribunal. We have learned that a democratic culture provides greater potential for prevention and conflict resolution. Continued democratization within individual countries must be encouraged, underpinning a democratic international community. Sweden is honoured to be the host country of the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA), which supports democratization processes throughout the world. The work of IDEA will be a valuable complement to the efforts of the United Nations and non-governmental organizations in this area. We have learned that troops must be made available for rapid-reaction operations when non-military measures have failed. As a conflict begins to escalate, every hour is precious. The lack of well-trained and well-equipped peace-keeping forces, ready to be deployed at short notice, may preclude successful action. Failure to achieve the proper execution of Security Council decisions due to lack of troops undermines respect for the United Nations. We welcome the efforts made — by Canada and Denmark for example — to improve the United Nations 9 stand-by capacity. Sweden will contribute an international force to achieve this objective. We have also learned that the Security Council mandates for United Nations peace operations must be more precisely formulated. Clear messages to the parties concerned are necessary. Unclear mandates may lead to ambiguous perceptions of the United Nations role in a conflict. We have learned the need to strengthen the United Nations ability to command and control peace operations. We welcome the reinforcements of the Secretariat that have taken place. Confusion occurs when troop-contributing countries intervene in the field through direct contacts with their own contingents. An effective forum for consultations with troop contributors could add to more effective management of peace operations. Such a forum should be established under the Security Council, preferably in accordance with Article 29 of the United Nations Charter. We have also learned that coordination of diplomatic, humanitarian and military efforts must be improved. Those who are to do the work in the field — humanitarian organizations and potential troop-contributing countries — should participate at an early stage in discussions on the implementation of mandates for complex United Nations peace operations. In this context, I would like to underline the importance of the United Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs. Further, we have learned the need to involve non-governmental organizations in such humanitarian operations. We have learned the value of comprehensive United Nations efforts in which humanitarian assistance, peacemaking, peace-keeping and long-term peace-building are carried out simultaneously, thus mutually reinforcing each other. We have learned that monitoring respect for human rights can build confidence, thus allaying fears and preventing the use of force. We have learned the vital importance of regional organizations for peace and security, as foreseen in Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is already playing a prominent role in conflict management in Europe. In other parts of the world — in Africa, Asia and the Americas — regional and subregional organizations are in a position to fulfil similar tasks, if necessary with the support of the United Nations. Military operations should be based on decisions taken by the United Nations, the OSCE or corresponding organizations in other regions. Other regional arrangements may have a role in organizing and executing such operations, but the bodies I have just mentioned should assume overall political and strategic responsibility. As we approach the twenty-first century, the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations offers an opportunity to establish a solid basis for improved global cooperation. Sweden welcomes the reform process now under way in the United Nations. To embrace multilateralism we must all rise above short-sighted interests and focus on what is best for global cooperation. We need political leadership from Governments if we are to make progress. Adapting the United Nations to the demands of the new era will involve hard work and difficult negotiations. We must not miss the opportunity provided by this anniversary. We need speedy progress. A clear timetable and a comprehensive framework are required for necessary change. The Commission on Global Governance, under the chairmanship of Sir Shridath Ramphal and the Prime Minister of Sweden, Ingvar Carlsson, offers several proposals for a stronger, more efficient and more democratic United Nations. The Commission’s report is a valuable contribution and a source of inspiration for United Nations reform. In order to be effective and more representative, the Security Council requires enlargement. We would welcome Germany and Japan as permanent members. At the same time, the need for geographical balance must be met. We want a more transparent Security Council. We want a composition and a decision-making process which prevent the division of the world into spheres of interest. The reform of the Security Council should be reviewed after 15 to 20 years with a view to maintaining its legitimacy and to achieving optimum flexibility. We meet at a time when the financial situation of the United Nations is critical. Last Monday the Nordic Foreign Ministers, in a joint statement, highlighted the threat to multilateralism caused by the present financial crisis. Nowhere is the crisis in multilateralism seen more clearly than in the unwillingness of some Member States to pay their assessed contributions to the United Nations in full, without conditions and on time. It is unacceptable that so far only one third of the Member States have paid 10 their regular-budget contributions for this year. Countries constantly demand more from the Organization, yet some of them are not willing to pay their membership fees. They apparently want others to foot the bill. Unilateral withholding of payment cannot be justified. Unilateral measures undermine multilateralism, particularly when taken by the single most important contributor. It is humiliating to see the Secretary-General spend time and energy begging for funds when the world community is demanding that the United Nations concentrate fully on the tasks which it was designed for. The United Nations needs revised scales of assessment to better reflect Member States’ ability to pay. Together with the United Kingdom, my Government has presented concrete proposals to address this problem. In the longer term, the resource base of the United Nations must be strengthened. The possibility of additional sources of funding needs also to be considered. Poverty and social misery are the greatest long-term threats to international peace and security. Some of the poorest countries have been caught in vicious circles of debt management. The United Nations must be given a stronger and better-defined role in the economic and social fields. A clearer division of work is called for in development assistance. Better coordination, more distinct priorities and more effective management by the United Nations development agencies are required. The governing boards of these agencies must be in a better position to play their leading role in the implementation of development assistance. Furthermore, we need improved forms of financing, with a higher proportion of assistance levied and negotiated in advance. More long-term planning of assistance is required, and the flow of funds must become more predictable. Sweden continues to be one of the largest voluntary contributors to United Nations economic and social activities. We expect other donor countries to assume their responsibilities to the same degree. As regards total development assistance, it must be possible for most donor countries to reach the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product. The United Nations is contemporary with the atomic bomb. Today we no longer accept living under a nuclear threat. The indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) was an important step in the right direction. We urge those few States which have not yet acceded to the NPT to do so without further delay, thus making it clear to the world community that they renounce the nuclear-weapon option. In May of this year the 180 States which have acceded to the NPT confirmed that the ultimate goal is to abolish nuclear weapons. International bans on chemical and biological weapons are already in place. It should be possible, if there is political will, to achieve within 10 to 15 years an agreement prohibiting nuclear weapons, thus making this threat to human existence a brief interlude in our history. A comprehensive test-ban treaty must be achieved in 1996, banning all nuclear tests for all time. In the meantime, we urge the nuclear-weapon States to refrain from all nuclear testing in order to ensure that faith in a future free from fear of a nuclear holocaust can be sustained. Every day, every hour, around the world, anti-personnel mines indiscriminately maim innocent civilians, many of them children. The ongoing Conference in Vienna to review the 1980 weapons Convention should result in a strongly and concretely reinforced regime against anti-personnel mines. This is a fundamental, moral and humanitarian imperative, and it is one step on the road to a total international ban on the use of anti-personnel mines. Moreover, substantial resources need to be invested in efficient mine clearance. Sweden is ready to contribute expertise and assist in the development of more advanced technology in this field. Furthermore, at the Vienna Conference, Sweden has proposed an additional protocol on blinding weapons. For more than a decade we have worked for explicit prohibition of blinding as a method of warfare. We now hope that it will be universally accepted. Security is a broad concept in today’s world. We know that poverty, social injustice, environmental degradation, rapid population growth and massive refugee flows create fear, disruption and conflicts. The major United Nations conferences on environment and development, human rights, population, social issues, women and human settlement all involved crucial questions of survival. We welcome the outcome of these conferences, the most recent of which was the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing. We 11 need to address both the root causes and the consequences of social injustice. Sustainable social and economic development can be achieved only with the full participation of women. To Sweden, multilateral cooperation is the most important instrument for mastering the crucial issues of survival. For this reason, we will continue to be an active Member of the United Nations. For this reason, we believe wholeheartedly that multilateralism is not only a matter of solidarity, but, indeed, a question of enlightened self- interest. As an expression of our strong commitment to the United Nations and to international peace and security, Sweden is a candidate for a seat on the Security Council in 1997-98. Our candidacy is a matter of highest priority for the Swedish Government and the Swedish people. It has been launched with the full support of the other four Nordic countries. As a member of the Council, we will make a constructive contribution to its work. Our dedication will be consistent with our record as a United Nations Member. Our support for United Nations ideals and activities is concrete, substantial and unwavering. Mr. President, on this important occasion, allow me to extend the congratulations of the people and Government of Peru upon your distinguished and well-deserved election to preside over the work of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that your broad experience and ability will make Portugal’s presidency a high-water mark in this exceptional anniversary marking half a century of the United Nations Organization. Peru, like all the nations gathered here, is facing a time of awesome changes in social, political and economic practices and in international equilibria as this century draws to a close. Those changes have altered our vision of the world and introduced positive elements of cardinal importance, but have also left questions and shadows that cause the greatest concern. Moreover, the shared approaches that have characterized these last few years do not in themselves resolve many of the substantive problems of the international system, such as those pertaining to collective security, economic and social development and the defence of the perennial values that guarantee a worthy and peaceful life for peoples and individuals. During the space of a decade my country experienced the worst social, political and economic crisis in its 174 years of history as an independent nation. A painful and futile internal conflict, brought on by intransigence and ideological utopianism, added to the waste of public resources and Governments overwhelmed by the nation’s problems, led Peru into a deep internal crisis with grave international consequences. Over the last 10 five years, the Government of President Alberto Fujimori has succeeded in overcoming the internal confrontation, restoring a healthy and vigorous economic order and re- establishing Peru’s international ties. In this context, it is very important to stress that we have set forth on the way to turning external difficulties into patterns of normalcy and the potential consolidation of our relations with neighbouring countries, with which we wish above all to cultivate cooperation. All of us here are aware that threats to international peace and security arise from the deterioration of the social, economic and institutional fabric of States, and that their worst effects, such as internal armed conflicts, drug trafficking, corruption and the inevitable sequel of those ills, poverty, are the seed-bed in which international conflicts tend to germinate. And all sensible people also know that the antidote to those ills is to be found in the permanent values common to all of mankind’s great civilizations, the values that should guide the effective effort of the international community to overcome those acute evils. We have left behind the international system dominated by the cold war between the super-Powers and the absurd faith in philosophical and political determinism. If we wish to build a world of justice and peace, we must dispense with the rhetorical exercises to which we became accustomed during that fortunately bygone era. We need objective points of reference for the international system that will avoid unilateral interpretations or interpretations that disregard the principles in force to bring about civilized coexistence among nations. And this requires us to refute the cynical idea that the values of the international system do not exist, or that they are entirely subordinate to relations of force between nations. All of this implies taking initiatives to enhance and defend objective principles of international law, as the only possible foundation for the present international system. We see with great concern how ethnic, geographical and utopian myths and revisionisms are becoming a boundless source of suffering for millions of men and women in our time, gravely disturbing fragile international balances. The struggle of the Cold War undermined the legal principles concerning avoidance of the use of force, respect for international treaties and the principle of non-intervention. Today, we have a duty to look upon international law with a new gaze; we must understand that, although international law does not in itself resolve the world’s problems, it will make this world safer and more habitable, and ensure that its points of reference are more stable. We have before us the intellectual challenge of clarifying the content of the central rules of international law in order to strengthen their legitimacy, and we also have the obligation to improve the effectiveness of international law, in both bilateral and multilateral relations. At the same time, we must not overlook the fact that the security and development of nations rests, today more than ever, upon respect for the social and intellectual features that are peculiar to each culture, unquestionably falling within a universal conception based on respect for individual freedoms. We must resist attempts to impose uniform “models” that prejudge and discriminate between the world’s varying cultural forms. We must seek unity in diversity and must not accept conditionalities that are often advanced by groups foreign to the democratic representation of States, whose effects upon our cultures are negative. There are those who argue that, having overcome the ideological conflict that divided the world for 45 years, we are now entering into a conflict of civilizations as the last phase in the evolution of the modern world’s conflicts. Without accepting the determinism implicit in that view, we cannot fail to observe that a lack of respect for the cultural diversity of the human species could indeed become a source of profound disputes. There has also been talk of the vanishing sovereignty of States as a fait accompli, and it is claimed that this would legitimize asymmetrical intervention by some nations in the lives of other nations. The word “sovereignty” evokes armies, ships and cannons and has an ominous ring to it. However, if we take an objective view of the matter, we cannot affirm that this is so. In its essence, sovereignty is above all plenary legal and political competence within a constitutional order. If we are today actively seeking integration in many regions of the world and if States, through various multilateral treaties, are diminishing their jurisdiction over certain aspects of their economic and social life, that is taking place because States, in the exercise of that plenary competence known as sovereignty, are voluntarily delegating the exercise of specific jurisdictions to an international organization for the greater good of a particular international space. In so doing, States do not derogate from their constitutions nor do they lose their capacity to conclude international treaties as they see fit or to legislate on countless other matters. And so we believe that those who are seeking new legal and political 11 definitions of sovereignty should take care to respect its essence, which is nothing other than respect for the constitutional independence of the various countries of the world. Peru opted for a republican and democratic regime based on a division of powers and officials elected by free and universal suffrage. Its government is a limited government that leaves broad areas of social, political and economic life open to the free choice of its citizens. However, this limited Government is not a minimal State without social functions, for it has active responsibilities and an important agenda to pursue in order to free the poorest citizens from a culture of dependency and integrate them fully into the life of the country. Peru seeks to harmonize transmission of the valuable cultural traditions of its people with the imperative needs of an open regionalism and the defence of a coherent, legitimate and just international order. Basing itself upon those principles and aspirations, Peru welcomes the thinking that is taking place during this fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and believes that the Organization should give serious thought to its future and to the course which international society is taking, so as to achieve a more complete vision encompassing different international realities based upon mutual respect and fairness among Member States. We must take into account the new regional realities and seek machinery that is functional, economical and efficient, not hampered by secondary issues or limited to powerlessly denouncing the contradictions of the international system, in order to ensure that the United Nations can be faithful to the purposes and principles that inspired its creation. We believe that we must discard the pragmatism that styles itself realism and defend the fundamental principles of a balanced and just international order. Peruvians believe in defending the perennial values of mankind, individual freedoms, international law as an objective benchmark for international order, respect for the world’s cultures and the constitutional independence of all the world’s nations. With these beliefs, we pledge ourselves anew to the renewal of the international system. Please accept my warm congratulations, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. At the same time, I wish to thank your predecessor, Ambassador Essy, for his successful work. The United Nations 50 years on — that makes this session of the General Assembly an event of extra-special significance. The people of the world have high expectations. We must take stock, but in so doing we must, above all, look to the future. The representatives of 50 nations who assembled in San Francisco in the year 1945 were intended to be, as President Truman put it, “the architects of a better world”. What has become of their blue-print? Today the family of nations has 185 members. Millions of people all over the world owe their lives, their freedom and their health, their jobs and their homes, to the United Nations and its specialized agencies. Decolonization has been completed, apartheid has been overcome, and respect for human rights is no longer an internal affair. In the field of disarmament a historic breakthrough has been achieved: in May of this year the proliferation of nuclear weapons was halted. That constitutes a big step towards making the world safe for mankind. All these are considerable achievements which many critics of the United Nations have overlooked in this jubilee year, achievements on which you, in particular, Mr. Secretary-General, and your staff are to be congratulated. Indeed, the United Nations, in spite of some unjustified criticism, can take pride in what it has done for the cause of peace, freedom and human dignity. Especially worthy of our gratitude and appreciation are the more than 68,000 United Nations troops currently 4 serving on missions in all regions of the world. When servicemen from Asia, Africa or Latin America attend to the basic needs of refugees in Europe, in the former Yugoslavia, and keep the beleaguered people from starving, then that is, I believe, a marvellous indication that the “one world” is a reality. Lest we forget: nearly 5,000 of those troops, the Blue Helmets, have been killed or wounded in the line of duty. The Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel must be put into effect as soon as possible. This we owe to all those who serve the United Nations. As we recap the events of the past year, we also have to consider the huge problems now confronting the world Organization. The ability to safeguard peace: that is the world’s main criterion when judging the United Nations. And here we have reached a critical point. Somalia, Rwanda and Bosnia: these countries stand for disappointment and setbacks as well. However, I should like to make it very clear that in such cases the culprit is quickly found, too quickly. Nothing is more convenient than to point to the alleged inefficiency of the United Nations. And nothing could be further from the truth. When it has not been possible to help people, when United Nations troops have been humiliated in the former Yugoslavia, it has in nearly every instance not been the fault of the United Nations. The problems have lain in its unsatisfactory mandate, in the lack of political will on the part of Member States, and, unfortunately, in the shortage of funds. It is we, the Members, who cause the difficulties. Following the holding of United Nations troops as hostages, the atrocities in Zepa and Srebrenica, and the terrible second bloodbath in Sarajevo’s market place, the community of nations has demonstrated that there is a limit to the amount of brutality and contempt for international law it will tolerate. And there has to be a limit. The resolve of the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) has paid off — not only for the people of Sarajevo, who for three years have been starving and freezing and kept under constant fire, but also for the peace process. Yesterday, here in New York, the parties to the conflict had another meeting with the Contact Group, of which Germany is a member. Another step forward was achieved on the constitutional issue following the result achieved in Geneva, and I believe this step to be a decisive one. For the first time since the conflict began there is a realistic prospect of a negotiated peace settlement. But I should like to warn against being over- euphoric. A lot has still to be done. We shall have to put one stone on top of another stone in order to finish this building. This time none of the participants should leave the conference table until an agreement has been reached — a peaceful agreement at the negotiating table, and not an agreement on the basis of military actions. Anyone who continues to prefer bloodshed, to prefer military actions, will be taking a great responsibility upon himself. From the beginning, Germany has played an active part in these efforts. We have never taken sides, nor did we ever want to take sides, against one party; rather, we have always taken up the cause of the victims, those who have been tormented and driven from their homes. To date, the German Government’s humanitarian aid in the region amounts to more than 1 billion Deutsche marks. And I should like to stress strongly that we have no double standards, nor should we have double standards. In the short time since August, we have provided more than 6 million marks to help Serbian refugees from Krajina. My country has contributed in various ways to all peace-keeping operations. By sending medical personnel to Split and deploying Tornado fighters for the first time — fighters which we have made available in Piacenze, Italy — in a United Nations peace-keeping mission, we have also shown that we do not merely talk about taking on more responsibility, but that we act to do so. We will also meet our responsibility when it comes to implementing the terms of a peace settlement — and I hope that this settlement will come soon. The reconstruction of Bosnia’s economy requires a genuinely international cooperative effort, an effort on the part of the international community. The European Union — and Germany, of course, as a member of the European Union — will play its part. What lessons can and must we learn from what has happened in Somalia, Rwanda and Bosnia? First, the United Nations must confine itself to doing what is feasible. Its resources are obviously being strained beyond the limit. It cannot take on every responsibility. It 5 cannot solve all the problems that the world is confronted with. Secondly, the extent and duration of the commitment of the United Nations must be more precise, the political and military objectives must be clearly defined, and there must be a realistic and, above all, coherent mandate. Thirdly, if the world Organization is going to intervene, then it must act consistently and resolutely. There must be no repetition of what happened in Rwanda or Zepa or Srebrenica. Fourthly, cooperation between the United Nations and other organizations such as NATO must from the outset be planned in such a way that maximum speed and, above all, efficiency are assured. Fifthly, we believe that the regional organizations must play a larger role than they have done so far. Not every problem must go straight to the United Nations. In Europe, for instance, and in other places of the world too, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) could assume much greater responsibility. However, we have to enable it to do so. Still, let there be no illusions. Peace-keeping is not just a fair-weather exercise. Such missions will always be apt to create problems for the world Organization. And, in view of the hundreds of thousands of lives that have been saved in Somalia and Bosnia, who can argue with an easy conscience that the United Nations should not have intervened? And many of these people have already been forgotten. What is required here is an increased peace- keeping capacity — constructive help, not destructive criticism. And to those who over and over again have called into question the actions of the United Nations and its peace- keeping operations, I would like to address the following question: Is there an alternative? Who could take the place of the United Nations? Indeed, Europe has not been able to cope with this tragedy in its own house as well as we all hoped it would. But nor should we forget the European Union’s achievements in the former Yugoslavia. It paved the way for the Contact Group’s ongoing peace efforts. To my mind, the conflict in the former Yugoslavia emphasizes how important and right it was for Western Europe to embark on a new course after the Second World War, a course that was directed against nationalism and against the use of force. For four decades, as a result of the East-West conflict, not all European nations were able to follow that route of the European Community, today’s European Union. The European Union is now striving to correct that terrible aberration and bridge the gulfs that separate it from Central and Eastern Europe. The goal is one Europe, a Europe in which the old big-Power politics and hegemonic aspirations can never again take root. That Europe must have a legitimate place for Russia, but for Ukraine as well. The European house does not consist solely of the European Union: it has many rooms. Neither of these two nations, Russia or Ukraine, should be left outside. To our Russian and Ukrainian partners and friends I say: Europe needs your contribution and it does so also in bringing peace to the former Yugoslavia. Here their new partnership with the European Union and NATO must — and, I add, will — prove its value. Many feared that when the East-West confrontation disappeared Europe would focus exclusively on its own affairs. That has not been the case. The European Union is intensifying its political, economic and cultural cooperation with the other regions of the world. In Asia, Africa and Latin America it is already a model for peace, prosperity and regional integration. In the United Nations the European Union is the principal partner for dialogue with the developing countries. The European Union and Germany have been particularly active in promoting peace and economic recovery in the Middle East. The recent agreement on the West Bank worked out by Yassir Arafat and Shimon Peres is another important milestone on the road to lasting peace in that region. I congratulate both sides on their courage and on their far-sightedness. The United States is playing a major part in this process in this region. We are grateful to them for that. Egypt has rendered an important contribution as an intermediary. Increasing the peace-keeping capacity of the United Nations also involves reforming the Security Council. There is now a global consensus, I believe, that this is necessary. The first steps towards reform have already been taken. More changes have been made to the Council’s 6 methods of work and more transparency achieved in the past two years than in the whole of the previous four decades. Like many other Member States, Germany considers that the Council should have more permanent and non- permanent members. The nations of Asia, Africa and Latin America need wider representation and I think we owe it to them. They have deserved it. The same applies to several countries with an important global role. Germany, with the support of many Member States, has announced its interest in permanent membership of the Security Council. Our willingness to assume greater responsibility, also within this framework, is for us the logical and consistent extension of our commitment to the United Nations. This commitment is consistent with the fundamental principle of our foreign policy, which is to give priority to multilateral cooperation. We have abided by that principle in pursuing European integration, and we believe that that same principle would help us play a useful role in the Security Council. The world finds itself faced with many new conflicts and challenges. It is crucial that in dealing with them we should focus our efforts more than we have done so far on conflict prevention. A political solution must remain the first option. That requires wider use of human rights observers, improvements in the United Nations early warning system, the promotion of democratization and the observation of election processes, as successfully done recently in Mozambique. We have provided a list of experienced intermediaries for the tasks of preventive diplomacy. The example of Macedonia shows what the preventive deployment of United Nations Blue Helmets can achieve. I am very happy about the agreement that has been achieved between Greece and Macedonia on this extremely important issue. Preventing fire can save countless lives and in any case it is cheaper than putting fires out. On my recent visit to Rwanda I was deeply shocked, in the truest sense of the word, by the atrocities that have been perpetrated there by human beings on other human beings. If the United Nations had intervened at an early stage and resolutely, many lives could have been saved. Germany has set up a substantial emergency aid programme for Rwanda. We are trying in particular to do something about the awful prison conditions. I myself visited prisons, in Kigali for example, and I must tell you that I have never seen anything like that in all my life. Urgent remedies are needed here to ensure that one injustice is not followed by another. I travelled to Burundi too, and I returned deeply saddened and concerned. We must not make the same mistakes in Burundi. Disarmament, arms control and confidence- building — these are some of the main components of conflict prevention. In recent years we have made the kind of progress that no one would have believed possible at the height of the arms race 15 years ago. The task of buttressing this breakthrough and building on the achievements has acquired great political significance. A few weeks ago we commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of the first atomic bomb explosions over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Nuclear weapons must never, never, be used again. They must be eliminated completely, as required by article VI of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. That aim was reaffirmed by the nuclear Powers at the New York Conference extending the Treaty. Never has the door to a ban on every kind of nuclear-test explosion been wider open than today. We must now direct all our efforts to the achievement of this goal. The Geneva negotiations must produce such a comprehensive ban by the autumn of 1996 at the latest. Anti-personnel mines, too, are “weapons of mass destruction”. Day in, day out, they are taking a terrible toll on human life, and many of the victims are women and, above all, innocent children. If any kind of weapon must be outlawed, then this one should be. Eliminating this scourge is a task of the highest priority, particularly in Nicaragua, Angola, Mozambique, Afghanistan, Georgia and Cambodia. Germany, together with its European partners, will continue the initiative in this direction during this session of the General Assembly. At the First Review Conference of the Convention on certain conventional weapons, which opened in Vienna the day before yesterday, tougher export restrictions will have to be agreed on and a strict ban imposed on the use of anti-personnel mines. I appeal to all Members of the United Nations: In the name of humanity, accede to the Convention on certain conventional weapons as quickly as possible. 7 There are good reasons why the work of the United Nations began with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The United Nations is more than a mere gathering of sovereign States. It is based on the common belief in the dignity and worth of every human being, and it is my view that this must remain the focal point of all political activity. Universal Children’s Day, celebrated a week ago, reminded us of the awful fate to which these, the weakest members of society, are often exposed. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) therefore needs the support of every one of us. The task of helping those people all over the world who have been persecuted and deprived of their rights must remain at the top of the political agenda. Pressure from the international community, the media, non-governmental organizations and private citizens must be maintained. Those who torture people and who treat human rights with contempt should not be able to sleep peacefully. To this end, the High Commissioner’s position will have to be strengthened and the Centre for Human Rights better equipped. People who commit war crimes must know that they will be prosecuted under international criminal law. Hence, Germany strongly urges the establishment of a permanent international court of justice. But above all, stronger measures to protect minorities are called for. “Ethnic cleansing” is no basis for peaceful coexistence, either in Europe or anywhere else. More than 27 million people are today on the move. This is one of the most dramatic events of our time. The cause is not only hunger and distress, but, in most cases, unfortunately, ethnic and religious fanaticism. Diversity of culture and tradition is one of the world’s greatest assets, and no one should seek to impose a particular model of society on others. The fact that there exists a core of human rights which everyone has to respect is quite a different matter. This was reaffirmed at the Vienna Conference and should not be challenged by anyone. Today the dialogue of cultures is central to the quest for peace. I have invited leading representatives of the Islamic world to come to Germany in November to participate in such a dialogue. My feeling is that we have to learn to understand each other better. I have also urged that the Bosnia Contact Group closely coordinate its efforts with the Islamic Contact Group. In Germany, two and a half million Muslims are living harmoniously with the local community. In my view, it is extremely important that we should develop cooperation and mutual trust at the international level as well, and I am speaking as the German Foreign Minister. Islam cannot be equated with terrorism or fundamentalism. No new enemy stereotypes must be allowed to develop. I think that we should be happy that we have been able to do away with the old ones. Peace and development are inseparable. Any reform of the United Nations worthy of that name should therefore encompass economic and social matters as well. This fiftieth anniversary is a unique opportunity to create a modern framework for a new development in partnership. Work on the Agenda for Development must therefore be completed as soon as possible. Apart from improving and simplifying the finance regime for United Nations development activities, the chief concern is to coordinate and efficiently implement the results of the world conferences on the environment, social problems, population growth and women — especially the Conference on Women that has just ended in Beijing. These are the main interrelated issues of our time as we pursue the goal of peace. The planet Earth must remain habitable for future generations as well. Progress is possible only through equal and fair partnership between North and South. Germany will continue to exert every effort to this end. None of this can be done unless we can come to grips with the biggest crisis confronting the United Nations: that of its financial situation. There is no reason to deny that it has assumed dramatic proportions; one has to be quite frank about this. This crisis can be overcome only if all contributors, and especially the main ones, meet their obligations punctually. Germany is the third largest contributor to the United Nations, and we pay our bills. We cannot allow a situation to continue where those who pay their contributions on time are also burdened with the arrears of wealthier Members. Unless decisive action is taken very soon, whole areas of activity could grind to a halt. I very much welcome the confirmation by the American Secretary of State that the United States stands by the obligations arising from its membership. The United Nations needs an America that fulfils its 8 leadership role, just as the United States needs a world Organization capable of, and willing to undertake, reform. How can we overcome this financial crisis? First, we must restore the balance between the budgets for peace- keeping operations and the regular budget of the United Nations. We cannot allow resources for such operations to be used up to the point of depletion while at the same time funds for urgent programmes of economic or social development are either non-existent or have to be cut back. Secondly, it is time we found a scale of assessments that reflects Members’ actual ability to pay. You, Mr. Secretary-General, have made great efforts to rationalize the Organization’s work, to ensure budgetary discipline and to reduce staff. I appeal to all Member States to give Under-Secretary-General Paschke the support he needs for his difficult job. The United Nations is indispensable to the task of maintaining global order and as a forum and instrument for international cooperation, today no less than in the era after the Second World War. No other organization has the same ability to focus the interests and energies of the world’s nations, which we believe is necessary. The United Nations is not “the others”, but us, the Members. And this Organization is only as strong and as united as we, its Members, make it. Hence my appeal today to the Assembly: let us stop our constant vacillation between euphoria and disappointment regarding the United Nations. Let us stop apportioning blame, which leads nowhere. Let us rather merge vision and pragmatism, solidarity and responsibility for our own actions into a rational and realistic international partnership under the aegis of the United Nations. Let us give this world Organization more clout and make it more efficient and economical. Yes, we will have to slim down the United Nations. It has to save money. Let us do these things in a constructive spirit, together with, and on behalf of, the United Nations. Let us give the United Nations what it needs — including paying our dues. That is what the world community expects of us now, and rightly so. That is the task facing the family of nations on the threshold of the new millennium. If the reforms fail, there will be only losers. “Hope is the pillar of the world”, they say in South Africa. Fifty years ago, such a pillar of hope for mankind was erected in San Francisco. Let us do everything to ensure that this pillar will continue to support the hopes of mankind in the next 50 years as well. Germany will continue to play its part. Allow me to begin by extending my warmest congratulations to the President on his assumption of his functions at this remarkable session of the United Nations General Assembly in its fiftieth year. It is without a doubt a fitting recognition of his rich personal experience and of his outstanding contribution to the world community. I should like to address words of deep appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedicated efforts aimed at creating a more secure, peaceful and coherent world for future generations but, above all, for the close attention, constant concern and personal compassion that he has demonstrated with regard to the fate of my homeland. On behalf of the Head of State, Mr. Eduard Shevardnadze, and the people of the Republic of Georgia, I should like to express our gratitude to all Member States for their support of Georgia in one of the most dramatic moments of its long history. I should like to assure the international community that despite a very difficult political landscape, which of late has included savage acts of political terrorism, the Georgian nation continues to strive towards its goal of democracy and stability. I have been fortunate enough to have had the honour of addressing this unique gathering on previous occasions, and have always found that, although some of the problems facing our individual countries and our community as a whole persist from year to year, the unique nature of this world body provides an incentive to look at problems in a more optimistic light and to seek 18 new and innovative solutions. This holds especially true in this anniversary year. This Hall has witnessed different times and events, some of them full of tension and stress, when the world was teetering on the brink of catastrophe. One can say without exaggeration that the history of mankind has been written within these walls for the last 50 years. Fortunately, the tense cold-war confrontation has subsided, clearing the way for the forming of mechanisms of cooperation and partnership. These mechanisms need time to mature and prove their vitality — but time is a luxury that few can afford in our day. This fledgling process is also hampered by a variety of other factors. Foremost among these factors is the existence of a number of countries that are, at the same time, struggling to make ends meet and to reform their impoverished economies. This creates a very difficult economic and social situation, which, in turn, leads to political instability, ethnic or civil conflict and, in the final analysis, to additional threats to regional peace, making the problems of individual countries a matter of concern to the entire world. For Georgia, this most difficult factor is further complicated by the country’s detachment from the global opportunities of commerce, technology, investment and information. No developing country — and Georgia is undoubtedly among them — has the means to pull itself out of its current difficulties by its own bootstraps. And if left to their own devices, these countries will inevitably follow the same scenario and become additional “bleeding wounds” on the body of the world. The international community is providing significant assistance to Georgia and to the other new independent States, for which we are very grateful. I should like to make special mention of the additional funds allocated recently for development and of the extensive activities of the United Nations Development Programme in the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States. This problem is of a greater magnitude, however, and its solution, we believe, lies in devising a comprehensive plan for the economic and social development of a number of fledgling States, involving vigorous actions on the part of the international community and a considerable expansion of the role of the United Nations in promoting development and in the allocation of additional possibilities to support the countries transiting to a market economy. One specific option could be to elaborate general programmes of development for individual countries. These programmes would be targeted at the main spheres of the economy, based on a thorough assessment of individual needs, assets and possibilities. They would set the dates, define the sources of financing, and integrate international assistance and the efforts of national Governments. The programmes would include the activities of the United Nations and of national and international non-governmental organizations in each specific country. Such a general programme of a coordinating nature would enable us to clearly identify priorities, set goals and effectively harness the untapped reserves of each nation. It would also make much more effective use of international assistance and goodwill, which, we all understand, are not infinite. The creation and implementation of such programmes would have a very important additional benefit: by helping to create the basis for a sound, growing economy, they would simultaneously be eliminating the breeding ground for internal wars and conflicts in a manner much more effective than any peace-keeping operation. The cruel and merciless flame of war raging on the territory of the former Yugoslavia is a vivid example of the discrepancy between the realities of our world today and the means that international organizations have at their disposal. Death, unbearable suffering and misery for tens of thousands of people are the price of this discrepancy. While the attention of the entire world is drawn to extinguishing the fire in the Balkans, the territory of the former Soviet Union has become the scene of events no less dramatic and equally threatening to international security. Many of them bear an uncanny resemblance to the Balkans in their train of events and in their destructive potential for regional and international stability. A timely and just resolution of even one of these conflicts would provide a brilliant example and a strong motivation for settling the other ones. In the past era — and I use this word on purpose, since we have witnessed a veritable change of eras — Georgia was often referred to as a laboratory of bold experiments. Though Georgia hardly has time for experimenting, this trend continues to this day with an unprecedented case. I am referring to the joint activities of United Nations military observers and the 19 Commonwealth of Independent States peace-keeping forces in the Abkhazia region of Georgia. So far, this novel approach — or experiment, one could say — has yielded precious few results. Logically, this would prompt us to search for new forms and methods, but it should not at all exclude a more effective use of the existing and tested possibilities. The interminable plight of Abkhazia and of the 300,000 displaced persons scattered throughout Georgia continues to weigh heavily on the entire country and constitutes another major factor in Georgia’s inability to engage fully in the process of consolidating, rebuilding and moving the nation forward. A fair settlement of the conflict in Abkhazia is made up of two equally important aspects: the unconditional return of the displaced persons to their homes and the definition of the political status of Abkhazia within a unified Georgia. This is not somebody’s wish, it is not even solely a matter of principle; this is a fact of life, and one that will be implemented, sooner or later. Despite the bitter experience of repeated treachery, the Georgian Government has never attempted, or threatened to resort to military force in order to solve this problem. We have always been committed to the peaceful and negotiated resolution of the conflict. It is extremely difficult, however, to carry on peaceful negotiations with a party that resorts to blatant “ethnic cleansing” and genocide as a means of consolidating its ill-gotten gains. Moreover, the Abkhaz side has recently gone so far as to practically stall the negotiating process by demonstrating more than their usual intransigence. It is obvious that the separatist regime is determined to make no compromises, and prefers to maintain the status quo in the zone of conflict. Each round of negotiations has proved that the Abkhazian separatists seek to win time, while pretending that they are committed to a negotiated settlement of the conflict. The separatist leadership is impatiently awaiting parliamentary and presidential elections in Russia. They attach great importance to the results, assuming that they will bring about a revision of policy priorities there towards a more pro-Abkhaz orientation. Such is the nature of “aggressive separatism”, which pursues its dark schemes with little regard for law, international public opinion, or elementary norms of human decency. “Aggressive separatism” is a relatively new phenomenon which emerged on the ruins of the communist system and is being nurtured by various political forces. The peculiarity of “Abkhaz separatism” lies in its seeming usefulness for the larger political aims of these forces. This fact makes it possible for a minority of the population of an autonomous republic to drive out the majority indigenous population of the land by force. This aspect of “aggressive separatism”, making it a tool in larger political schemes, has international ramifications and represents a danger for world security as a whole. The special role and possibilities of Russia in bringing about the resolution of the Abkhazian conflict are recognized by all, not least by relevant United Nations documents. Some recent developments encourage us to hope that Russia may finally decide to use this potential in order to bring about a comprehensive settlement of this problem. The international community has applied much effort to promoting a peaceful, fair solution to the conflict in Abkhazia. In the past two years the Security Council alone has adopted 13 resolutions on Abkhazia. One hundred and thirty six United Nations military observers are situated in the conflict zone. The Secretary-General’s Special Envoy has undertaken numerous trips to the area and has consulted repeatedly with all the parties. In December 1994 the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OCSE) adopted a Declaration at its Budapest summit in which the participating States expressed their deep concern over “ethnic cleansing”, “massive deportation of the population” and “numerous deaths of innocent civilians”, having included these specific terms in the declaration. Add to this several declarations and statements adopted at CIS summits in Almaty and Minsk, which denounce any form of separatism. Member States of the CIS assumed the obligation not to support in any form or manner separatist movements and regimes on the territories of other countries, and not to establish political, economic and other relations with them. Neither would they provide their territory and communications facilities for use by separatists, nor render them economic, financial, military or any other kind of assistance. At the CIS summit in Minsk the mandate of the peace-keeping forces in Georgia was expanded to include 20 wider rights in order to facilitate the orderly return of displaced persons and protect vitally important structures. The mere enumeration of all these measures and activities would seem to indicate that sufficient political and legal foundation has been created to finally resolve this festering crisis. However, the displaced persons are still waiting to return to their homes, there continue to be no guarantees of a secure life and normal living conditions, and the separatist leaders in Abkhazia persist in their aim of turning Abkhazia into a land uninhabited by Georgians. Should we regard all the above-mentioned resolutions, decisions and statements as futile efforts that carry little beyond moral support? Or consider that the adoption of Security Council resolutions and their implementation are two separate and unconnected acts? I recall an emotional intervention by the Permanent Representative of the Czech Republic, Ambassador Kovanda, at one of the Security Council meetings, in which he suggested that the time had finally come to “call a spade a spade”. As I have mentioned, this was done in the OSCE Declaration in Budapest last year, but this has yet to appear in any United Nations document on the situation in Georgia. Also, the process of enforcing the implementation of the provisions of adopted documents is slack and, with very few exceptions, brings no results. I realize that I am touching on some sore points in United Nations activities, but the lack of movement on the Abkhazian conflict compels us to present the undisguised truth and begin the transformation from words to deeds. In this regard, I should like to present some suggestions which, we believe, could contribute to the effectiveness of both the words and of the actions of the United Nations. In our view, the resolutions emanating from the United Nations, as well as from other international organizations, must clearly assign personal responsibility to individual persons, organizations or regimes, guilty of disrupting the process of the peaceful resolution of conflicts. They should clearly state that these actions will inevitably entail adequate punitive measures. First among them should be an introduction of severe economic and other sanctions according to Articles 41 and 42 of Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations. The specific form of sanctions intended for the territories under the control of criminals should also be defined clearly at the outset, as well as the fact that the population of these territories will be entitled to receive only humanitarian aid under strict international control. The case of Abkhazia is a relevant example. The Georgian Government has information indicating that weapons and heavy armaments are being stockpiled in some areas of the territory under the control of the United Nations Observer Mission and the CIS peace-keepers. The systematic commuting of ships between Abkhazian ports and regional States with the intention of supplying criminal gangs, the free movement of foreign nationals and the illegal operation of commercial entities cannot be tolerated either. Secondly, during its history, the United Nations has not been energetic enough in taking compulsory measures against violators of international peace and stability. In a recent document devoted to the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the Secretary-General describes such an approach as desirable in principle and enumerates the positive and negative aspects of entrusting this task to the Member States. Much room exists also with regard to the possibility of achieving the same objective by regional organizations, especially at a time when the coordination of action between international organizations has acquired more and more importance. Cooperation between the United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia and the CIS peace-keeping force, as an example, could benefit from some additional elements. With regard to this, I would like to point out that the establishment of a permanent representation of the CIS at United Nations Headquarters, headed by a dynamic and experienced diplomat, would be highly beneficial and desirable. Thirdly, we consider the establishment and operation of the international criminal court a priority. The United Nations would be contributing greatly to promoting international law and justice and the court could quickly develop into a potent tool of preventive diplomacy, which in itself would be a major factor reinforcing international stability. More often than not we are reduced to dealing with the effect, rather than the cause, of events. In other words, we put much less stock in United Nations preventive diplomacy than is prudent or practical. In the case of the Abkhazian conflict, this point, naturally, has no practical significance any longer, but conclusions can be drawn from it that would be relevant for the future. Preventive diplomacy must have real mechanisms and 21 levers which would enable the international community to impose its will, rather than expose the futility of its initiatives. In my intervention at the meeting of the Security Council on 12 May 1995, I requested an expansion of the functions of the United Nations observers in order to accelerate the repatriation of refugees. We felt that it was important to register and control the breaches of human rights. This would deter lawbreakers and keep the international community better informed about the situation in the region. Since military observers would be inappropriate for this type of specialized work, we suggested the establishment of a small team of competent professionals working alongside the observers to undertake this mission. The Government of the Republic of Georgia welcomed the decision to establish such a human rights monitoring mission in Abkhazia, Republic of Georgia, as well as its objectives, as presented in the Secretary-General’s report of 7 August 1995. I should like to take this opportunity also to convey our satisfaction with the decision of the Secretary-General to appoint a deputy to his Special Envoy, who would be resident in Georgia and would thus provide a continuous presence at a senior political level. I have another suggestion of a more administrative nature. I know that I am expressing the opinion of a number of newly independent States in requesting that some mechanism be found to allow the hiring of representatives of these States by organizations and programmes of the United Nations system — primarily, the United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Children’s Fund, as well as others. The problem lies in the fact that most programmes and organizations have instituted a hiring freeze, which came into effect before the newly independent States became independent. So, in reality, this hiring freeze, as necessary and as useful as it may be from the point of view of internal administration, represents for our States a roadblock to the normal representation of its citizens. We would be very grateful if such a mechanism could be found. Three years have passed since the Head of State of the Republic of Georgia, Mr. Eduard Shevardnadze, laid out a set of very sensitive points at the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. The creation of a global monitoring system for the early prevention of potential conflicts; the establishment of special units of Blue Helmets, after the example of Interpol teams, in order to control and combat the flow of conventional weapons; and the establishment of a rapid reaction force were among the proposals. The problems that prompted him to make these suggestions have, unfortunately, grown more acute today and need to be urgently addressed. We are aware of the many difficulties in implementing some of these measures, not least the financial difficulty, but the costs inevitably grow astronomically when problems are left to fester. Recently a forum was held in Tbilisi under the auspices of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, entitled “Solidarity Against Intolerance, For Dialogue Between Cultures”. It was held in the framework of the Year for Tolerance declared by the United Nations. The main aim of the forum was to find ways out of the situation in which the countries infected by the virus of intolerance had found themselves. It is symbolic that Georgia, a country known historically for its tolerance, hosted the forum. I am sure that everyone shares the opinion expressed in Tbilisi, that “we cannot afford to overlook intolerance, since indifference and complacency equal complicity”. The contribution of the United Nations to the process of maintaining international peace and stability is enormous. And yet numerous open wounds remain in the world. Conventional wisdom would hold the United Nations solely responsible for not being able to close them. There are, however, deeper reasons for this. At the root of the problem of the United Nations ineffectiveness, we see the current situation in the world. The system of coordinates into which the United Nations was born 50 years ago has been drastically and precipitously altered by the rapid disintegration of the bipolar world and the emergence of new interrelationships, new problems and new threats to world security, as well as to the security of individual Member States. In this situation it is all of us Member States, expressing the collective will of the United Nations, that need to determine what kind of United Nations we would like to see at the turn of the century and, indeed, in the next 50 years, and what means we would be prepared to provide to the United Nations in order for it to be effective in the new situation. As the representative of one of the many nations caught up in the vortex of these changes, I am confident that I express the opinion of all Georgians when I say that my country looks upon the United Nations both with disappointment, for the failure to contribute meaningfully to resolving some of our most burning problems, but also 22 with hope and optimism that the United Nations will finally bring itself into conformity with the changes in the world and find the resolve and the means to impose its will and international law. This hope is based on the fact that the United Nations is at its half-century mark and regards this not only as a time for celebration and commemoration, but, more importantly, as a time for stock-taking and mapping out its future activities, in order to be able to rise to the challenges of the next 50 years and of the twenty-first century. Allow me at the outset to extend to you, Mr. President, our warmest and sincerest congratulations on your election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. Through you, I should also like to pay tribute to the relations between my country and Portugal and to note our shared expectations for the Mediterranean region. I would be remiss were I to fail to extend my warmest congratulations to your predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, President of the previous session of the Assembly, for the new impetus he gave to the Organization through the different working groups over which he presided. I should also like to pay a special tribute to the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the wisdom and determination with which he is carrying out his noble mission. This session of the Assembly crowns a half century of the world Organization’s efforts to preserve world peace. Today, the Organization is called upon to pave the way to a new era, one that we hope will be marked by solidarity in facing the tasks before us and the responsibility we all bear. Since the end of the cold war the world has rid itself of the heavy burden of the fear of another world war, a war that would have led to untold catastrophes and tragedies. This development, albeit new, already seems to be part of the past given the speed of subsequent developments. Even if East-West confrontation and the bipolarity of past decades have disappeared, new challenges have emerged over the past few years. Hotbeds of tension and instability have proliferated, in many regions of the world, and have taken root in the soil of ethnic and political hostilities that often take the form of armed confrontations within the borders of any one State. Such hostilities are often fuelled by extremes of hardship and by deteriorating economic and social conditions. Some negative phenomena, such as terrorism, extremism and the illicit traffic in arms and drugs have also grown in a manner that is cause for concern as they undermine the stability of States. Inherent in these new challenges are factors of disintegration and collapse that throw a long shadow over international peace and security and impose new threats that the international community should hasten to contain 6 with decisive action which should not focus on their outward manifestations alone, but deal with their true underlying causes, namely economic underdevelopment and social backwardness. In fact, these new situations which now face the world in the post-cold-war era make us realize that it is impossible to ensure lasting international peace and security by military means alone. Respect for law and international legality are prerequisites as are creation of conditions that would promote the economic and social development in an interdependent world. These, we believe, are the underpinnings upon which we should build a new world order. Due to the developments the international community has been witnessing over the past few years, the United Nations Organization has come to shoulder new responsibilities towards international peace and security. These responsibilities are manifest in the unprecedented increase in the number of peace-keeping operations, as well as in new activities such as the supervision of elections and the rebuilding of State structures and the economic infrastructures of States. In addition, many of these activities have to do with the settlement of disputes within certain States. While the United Nations has to provide assistance to countries that are ravaged by civil wars and internal conflicts, we, as members of the international community, are all called upon to mobilize our efforts and to strengthen our solidarity within the context of the efforts aimed at the maintenance of peace and to identify and resolve the underlying causes of such disputes. Proceeding from our belief in the fundamental principles set forth in the Secretary-General’s “Agenda for Peace”, particularly those relating to preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peace building, Tunisia, during its presidency of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), called for stronger cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity in the area of conflict prevention and the speedy resolution of disputes at minimum cost. Here we should remind of the role of the central organ of the OAU’s mechanism for conflict prevention, management and resolution, which has been given new impetus by President Ben Ali and other African leaders in order to make it an effective tool in the prevention and settlement of disputes in Africa. In this context, Tunisia has hosted several meetings of this central body, which have resulted in the adoption of many important resolutions that have made it possible to address certain situations which, otherwise, would have called for intervention by the international community to keep peace or to prevent the outbreak of new conflicts. We believe that such efforts by this central organ of the OAU warrant additional support. The results of such efforts could be improved if the appropriate financial and logistical means were made available to the organ and if coordination were ensured between the United Nations and the OAU in this regard. We do hope that the recent tendency to give this matter some thought will lead to the identification of the ways and means whereby action by the international community in this direction will develop further. On this occasion, I should like, on behalf of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, to pay tribute to the international community for its valuable support to Tunisia during its presidency of the OAU, and to express particular appreciation to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, as well as to all those who have provided financial and logistical assistance to peace-keeping operations in Africa and to the States that have provided financial support to the fund created within the OAU mechanism for the settlement, management and prevention of disputes. While some hotbeds of tension persist, some have been eliminated, and we do see a reduction in the danger of major conflagrations in the light of the significant progress made towards disarmament and the strengthening of the underpinnings of international security through the efforts of the United Nations, as well as an improvement in the climate of trust and understanding that we now feel in international relations. In the area of weapons of mass destruction, Tunisia welcomed the signing of the Convention on chemical weapons. We believe it is a step that will lead to the elimination of an entire class of such weapons. This calls for further substantive steps to rid the world gradually of the threat of nuclear weapons, particularly in the wake of the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). As for the Middle East, many important steps have been taken towards genuine dialogue between the parties concerned. Tunisia, which has been an active participant in the peace process since it began in Madrid, welcomes the agreement achieved yesterday between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel, and hopes that it will be followed by other concrete steps towards ensuring the 7 achievement of the legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people. We must adopt the same approach in order to give new impetus to the negotiations between Syria and Israel on the one hand, and between Lebanon and Israel on the other in order to ensure the withdrawal from the occupied territories in the Golan and in southern Lebanon and the achievement of a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the region. It goes without saying that the principles upon which the peace process was based, namely Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), as well as General Assembly resolutions concerning the withdrawal from all Arab and Palestinian lands, including Holy Al-Quds, must be fully implemented. Al-Quds remains, for the Palestinian and the whole Islamic nation, a cornerstone for the settlement of the dispute. We believe that it is time for the Israeli Government to demonstrate realism and political courage by rising above the very narrow view of security and relations with the neighbouring Arab States in order to allow the peoples of the region to live in harmony in increasing security and stability. In the Arab Maghreb, Tunisia, which has always believed in international legality, calls, in the light of initiatives taken by Libya, for a rapid resolution of the Lockerbie affair in order to lift the embargo imposed on our Libyan brethren. The negative effects of that embargo have begun seriously to affect stability and development in all the countries of the region. As for Iraq, Tunisia, which is satisfied with the progress that is being made in implementing United Nations resolutions, calls for lifting the embargo imposed on Iraq in order to mitigate the suffering of the Iraqi people. At the same time, Tunisia stresses the need to fully respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait and all the countries of the region. By the same token, we hope that agreement on the basis of the norms of international law and the behests of good-neighbourliness and respect for the territorial integrity of other States, will be reached in the dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran on Abu Moussa and the Greater and Lesser Tumb Islands. I should now like to address the crisis in Bosnia, which, in our view, constitutes an aberration that embodies a serious defiance to all humanity. This war puts us face to face with ideologies which, we thought, had become things of the past, but which have now resurfaced in the guise of “ethnic cleansing”. The international community has the right to make use of the means provided by the United Nations Charter to force those who flout all civilized values and trample the most basic of human rights to accept the independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to respect its territorial integrity. Tunisia, which has always participated in the United Nations efforts to maintain international peace and security, is well-aware of the limitations of the narrow view that reduces the concept of security to the military dimension alone. Proceeding from this, Tunisia has supported from the outset the international community’s initiative embodied in “An Agenda for Development”. We believe that “An Agenda for Development”, along with “An Agenda for Peace”, help to enrich our thinking in the field of multilateral cooperation at a time when countries of the world are becoming increasingly open to market economics which, together with the consolidation of interdependence, have come to be the principal economic characteristics of world economy at the end of the 20th century. In view of the irreversible globalization of economic concepts, the United Nations is called upon to play a fundamental role in formulating and implementing development policies. Such an important role should work in favour of the international community’s efforts to restructure the United Nations and to increase its effectiveness. Tunisia, which has taken part in these efforts, believes that any restructuring process should help promote the universal nature of the Organization and strengthen its democratic posture, so that it may make a better contribution in the area of development. We believe that the process of restructuring must go hand-in-hand with a wider cooperation between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions in order to improve their input in development. In this context, joint initiatives could be taken to ensure a better division of labour between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions with a view to increasing their effectiveness in the economic and social fields and within the context of development in general. More specifically, as far as cooperation between the United Nations and other parties is concerned, President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali has been calling, since 1989, from this very rostrum, for a development partnership between industrialized and developing countries. This initiative is a project for a new 8 international cooperation based on a dynamic view of the security of all States. Through this proposal, Tunisia aims at creating a new system based on economic, political, social and democratic stability, because we believe that they are the very pillars of security. This Tunisian initiative is based on awareness of the organic link between development, democracy and stability. This overall view takes into account the aspirations of individuals and peoples who look forward to freedom and economic, social and cultural well-being. The Tunisian view of security and development is anchored in the belief that extreme importance must be attached to the cultural and humanitarian aspects of international relations, particularly at the regional level. Proceeding from this belief, Tunisia has sought to consolidate its cultural and political ties with all the countries of the Arab Maghreb and of the Mediterranean. At the Maghreb level, in cooperation with the member States of the Arab Maghreb Union, Tunisia has worked to create an economic zone in the region. This has taken concrete shape in the Tunisian declaration of 1994 relating to the creation of a free zone as a first step in putting in place a Maghreb development strategy. Tunisia’s involvement in international economic affairs and its attempts to develop its interests with the region on the northern shores of the Mediterranean are among its basic foreign-policy tenets, enshrined in the partnership agreement with the European Union. This agreement is based on joint development and aims at creating a free zone that will allow Tunisia further activity within the economies of its European partners. It goes hand in hand with a policy of dialogue between the countries of the Mediterranean. On the 28th and 29th of July 1995, Tunisia hosted a preparatory meeting for the Mediterranean region to ensure the success of the meeting scheduled for next November in Barcelona. The Preliminary results of the Mediterranean dialogue give cause for optimism as they reflect a common desire to safeguard the Mediterranean region from international political convulsions and economic fluctuations while ensuring its harmonious development. The United Nations is called upon today to develop a new concept based on the need to achieve security, development and democracy. These are the very principles in which Tunisia believes and for which we strive, domestically as well as internationally. In the field of development, the Tunisian strategy is based on the human element within a comprehensive vision that embraces all segments of society, and aims at building a balanced and unitary society. In this context, I wish to stress in particular the importance that Tunisia attaches to the empowerment of women, the protection of the family and to highlight the fact that many achievements have been made in this context, particularly with regard to the adoption of structural, legal and administrative measures to promote the role of women and the family, economically and socially and to enhance the role of women in our development efforts. At the same time, Tunisia has acceded to many international conventions on the equality of women and men, the latest of which has been the Copenhagen agreement which relate to the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. Based on its rich experience in this context, Tunisia has played a very active role in the March 1995 World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen and in the recent Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, whose positive results we commend. In this new era, Tunisia will continue to support the efforts of the United Nations both in the areas of maintenance of peace and of development. We shall continue to participate in defining the features of the new world order and to call for upholding the law and the norms of international legality. It behoves the States of the world to share a joint vision of the world of tomorrow, so that it may be characterized by more solidarity and justice. We hope that the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations will reaffirm the commitment of the international community to an Organization without which we can never hope to build such a new world order. Allow me first to congratulate Mr. Freitas do Amaral on his election as the President of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. My Government is convinced that the wealth of his experience and abilities will prove vital at this crucial crossroads as we search for new and innovative mechanisms and structures to enhance the effectiveness of our Organization to meet the challenges of the coming century. Allow me also to pay tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, for the ability and commitment that he showed in presiding over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We further wish to express our profound appreciation of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to commend him for his untiring efforts to ensure the effectiveness of our Organization. The multifaceted challenges that our global community will continue to face in the period ahead, and the opportunities that exist — more than at any time in the past — to promote equity and justice in a more harmonious world will require a thorough review of 16 paradigms, methods and institutions that have functioned for the past 50 years. Indeed, different realities from those now prevailing inspired the founding of the United Nations in 1945 and shaped its operational mechanisms in the subsequent decades. The situation now is very much changed, if not altogether new. The membership of the Organization itself has undergone phenomenal change to increase almost fourfold. Moreover, while the threat of a major international confrontation has receded with the end of the cold war, a host of other problems, including an upsurge in inter-State conflicts, international terrorism, growing poverty and marginalization of vast segments of humanity in the developing countries as well as within affluent societies, are coming to the fore. It is apparent that these problems and realities will require novel theoretical and institutional approaches. It is in this context that my Government welcomes the debates that have been provoked by the recommendations of the independent working committee and other interested parties on the future of the United Nations. Let me further underline that, as one of the new Member countries of the United Nations, we are gratified to rejoin the world community of States and impart our views on its future, especially as we have had the added advantage of gauging its operations from without for most of the past 50 years. We share the view of many Member States on the imperative of restructuring the decision-making bodies of the United Nations — particularly the Security Council, in a manner that ensures adequate representation of its diverse components and interests. The process of restructuring should not, moreover, consist of mere enlargement through the inclusion of a number of potential candidates as permanent members through some selection criteria of financial and economic clout, population size and other similar factors. As we all agree, the issue is more profound and transcends a simple numbers game. We hold that serious thought must be given to devising a suitable arrangement that guarantees the proper representation of our global community in its rich diversity and that is amenable to periodic adjustments to accommodate inevitable changes in a dynamic world. In the same vein, we welcome the emerging consensus over rationalizing the development agencies and institutions of the United Nations by eliminating overlapping functions and mandates, and integrating these institutions into more powerful and authoritative bodies. The numerous platforms unanimously adopted at the international Summits in Rio, Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing, aimed at environmental preservation, the reduction and elimination of poverty, and the empowerment of women, cannot be realized without the concerted efforts of these enhanced institutions. The new drive towards their increased integration is therefore both appropriate and timely. None of these ideals can come to fruition without the essential prerequisite of peace. Representing a nation and people that have suffered the agonies of war and conflict for almost the entire lifetime of this Organization, my Government cannot underrate the efforts and priorities that the United Nations must accord to the prevention and resolution of conflicts. Past failures and inadequacies can only reinforce the collective resolve of our global community to check forces of aggression and destabilization and not to let down wronged parties. And yet we cannot hide our disappointment at the indecision and wavering we see over sending clear signals to defuse potential time-bombs and conflicts that are brewing. The age-old folly of arming belligerent and aggressor States in pursuit of narrow commercial and other mundane interests continues unabated. This anomalous left-over of the cold-war years must surely be rectified, as it is the first step that we must take in our quest for global peace and as we devise elaborate mechanisms for conflict prevention, management and resolution. If I have dwelt somewhat at length on what we aspire to see in the invigorated Organization in the decades to come, this is due to my sincere belief that the tone we set here collectively will have far greater influence in shaping the future of our planet than the isolated measures and endeavours we undertake in our individual countries. Allow me now, to briefly touch on issues of direct importance to my country and our subregion. After three decades of agonizing war, my Government is today fully engaged in healing the wounds of war, rehabilitating a devastated country and institutionalizing the rule of law. The constitution-drafting process, hinged on popular participation in all its phases, is progressing at a satisfactory pace and according to the schedule envisaged. We are also doing our utmost to contribute, together with our sisterly partners, to the creation of a climate conducive to subregional cooperation and collective security on our part of the continent, which has seen much turmoil and commotion in the past. The precarious 17 situation in Somalia and the problems posed by the destabilizing policies pursued by the National Islamic Front (NIF) regime in the Sudan only indicate the enormity of the tasks, which need persistent and concerted efforts by all regional and international actors concerned. The recent document signed in regard to the implementation of the second phase of the peace agreement between the Palestinian and Israeli parties can only inspire confidence in all of us that this long-drawn- out conflict is heading towards a satisfactory resolution at long last. We trust that these measures will contribute towards a comprehensive settlement of the conflict in the Middle East. In conclusion, I wish to restate our firm belief and hopes that our Organization will find the insight and inner strength to reinvigorate itself to meet the challenges of the next century. I can only reiterate my Government’s firm commitment to play its small and modest part to advance the ideals that bind us together. Allow me at the outset to congratulate Mr. Freitas do Amaral on his election to the prestigious office of President of the General Assembly at this fiftieth session. His distinguished career in Portuguese politics serves as an assurance that his tenure will be very workmanlike and fruitful, in addition to celebratory. I wish also to thank the outgoing president, Ambassador Amara Essy, for the excellent job he did last year. It is particularly auspicious to address the General Assembly this week — a day after the signing, in Washington, of a bulky, carefully crafted and long-argued-over agreement between Israel and the Palestinian Authority on the second stage of Palestinian autonomy; and a few days after the signing, here in New York, of a much slimmer, much more tentative and much more general set of additional principles for peace in the South Slav States, which, nevertheless, we hope, represents the next step towards peace in that area as well. On 24 October, the United Nations will celebrate its jubilee. This indicates that the objectives and ideals of this Organization, as set out in the Charter, are still valid and still at the forefront of the interest of the international community. This fills us with joy, all the more so since one of the founding Members of the Organization was Czechoslovakia. The founding of the United Nations was the logical outcome of the efforts of countries which, having been affected by the most terrible war in the history of mankind, wanted to ensure that a new organization would prevent any repetition of a similar conflagration. Guaranteeing global peace, however, has never been the sole objective of the United Nations. The United Nations constitutes a unique forum for all countries, without distinction, to present their opinions and pursue their international interests in all areas of concern, including not only security and disarmament but also social and economic development, protection of the environment and other issues that are particularly pressing nowadays, including drug trafficking and terrorism. The United Nations thus offers a platform for solving global problems. The United Nations efforts to implement the principles of its Charter enjoy the full support of the Czech Republic. Mr. Václav Havel, the President of the Czech Republic, will no doubt underline the importance we assign to it when he speaks from this rostrum next month. Nevertheless, in view of the changes that have taken place since the inception of the United Nations, there is an urgent need to adapt the Organization to new challenges, to thoroughly reform it and to turn it into a better and more effective instrument of multilateral international relations. The most important task is that of creating a more efficient and more cost-effective system. We need a practical system, one which, even with limited means, would guarantee global security, uphold human rights and 9 contribute far more effectively to development in less privileged parts of the world. We need an Organization that, on the basis of the principle of universality, is open to all those who are willing and ready to participate in this endeavour. The United Nations cannot spend a penny more on programmes that duplicate one another or on programmes that have become ineffective or even unnecessary. Many programmes can be consolidated, or indeed even eliminated, without any adverse effect on their beneficiaries. The message is clear: many of our national Governments are implementing cost-control and efficiency measures, and a similar approach must be taken by the United Nations as well. We recognize the important role that the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions (ACABQ) plays in the process of managing the United Nations finances and the importance of the Office of Internal Oversight Services, created last year. These organs must control United Nations expenditures even more strictly. The Charter of the United Nations devolves the basic responsibility for maintaining international peace and security to the Security Council. In this role, the Council is irreplaceable. It is perceived as a compact, efficient, transparent and alert body that should guarantee rapid and effective United Nations action, wherever necessary, to maintain or restore peace anywhere in the world. Although it is currently perhaps the most efficiently operating organ of the United Nations, there is room for improvement. The Council must put greater stress on preventive diplomacy, and it should further improve the flow of information between its members and other United Nations Members, as well as its cooperation with the Secretariat. Greater transparency of the Security Council in its decision-making would also be desirable. These are steps the Council can pursue by itself. A broader issue is that of restructuring the Council, which requires our special attention. We support, and actively participate in, the Open-ended Working Group on the reform and restructuring of the Security Council, and we anticipate that the proposals that eventually emerge from it will actually be implemented. The number of permanent and non-permanent members of the Council should increase to about 20. Any substantially greater number would affect its effectiveness. It should, as far as possible, include representation by all regions, and the Group of Eastern European States should be allotted an additional seat. We oppose any new categories of Security Council members. Participation in maintaining world peace and meeting financial obligations to the United Nations are some of the criteria that should be considered in determining the expansion of the permanent membership. We believe Germany and Japan to be suitable candidates, and advocate expanded representation of Latin America, Africa and Asia. Logically, non-permanent members, and small States in particular, cannot play the same role as permanent members with the veto. Nevertheless, non-permanent members have a positive role to play in the Council’s activities and in its decision-making. During its current tenure on the Security Council, the Czech Republic has been contributing constructively to the Council’s activities. Our own active policies demonstrate, on the one hand, the unmistakable place of the Czech Republic among traditionally democratic countries and, on the other hand, our independent analyses and attitudes, in which we are beholden to no other Power. Our Security Council activity has also demonstrated — if such a demonstration were indeed necessary — our commitment and involvement not only with respect to Europe, but also in seeking solutions in far-away conflicts which at first glance may not affect us. The Czech Republic supports a more active role of the Security Council in various aspects of conflict management and in delving even deeper to the roots of conflicts. Such a role, exemplified for example in preventive diplomacy, aims at creating conditions and an atmosphere for parties in dispute to enter into serious and sincere negotiations, thus restoring stability and peace in the regions where tension prevails. When it comes to implementing the results of negotiations, active and complex peace building and peacemaking have been our primary vehicles. We do not share one-sided negative evaluations of the results of United Nations peace-keeping operations. In some regions normalcy has been restored precisely because of the United Nations and its peace- keeping activities. But there are also regions where tragedies unfold unchecked despite the United Nations best efforts, including tremendous financial, material and personnel contributions. In its extent, depth and consequences, the crisis in the former Yugoslavia amounts to the greatest and most tragic conflict in post-war Europe. The inability of Europe and of the international community in general to stop the conflict has undermined the confidence of the world public in a number of international institutions. Gaps in existing security arrangements have become apparent, and 10 the European integration process has slowed down and became more complicated. The Balkan conflict is also frequently linked with the crisis of the United Nations and with the perceived need to create a more effective international security mechanism for resolving regional conflicts. In this strange way, the war in the former Yugoslavia might thus eventually assist in forming a new, more effective security mechanism. It transpires that the international community was not ready for the conflict. It underestimated its complexity and its potential for escalation. Its length and its chronic character are linked with the military-strategic equality of the antagonists who, despite international pressure, have been refusing to negotiate. They believe, quite erroneously, that they can attain more of their objectives by fighting than by negotiating and signing a peace agreement. The latest developments indicate that it is impossible to attain any significant success in solving conflicts of this type without the determination of the international community and the combination of strong political pressure, sanctions and the appropriate use of military force. But it is still more obvious that a final, just and lasting solution can be attained only by peaceful negotiations. The fate of the innocent civilian population lies at the heart of our concerns. The victims of ethnic cleansing, the still-concealed tragedy of the men and boys of Srebrenica and Zepa and the exodus of Croatian Serbs from their old homes all evoke fears for the fate of civilians. We should help monitor the observance of human rights for civilians on all sides of the conflict. The United States initiative regarding Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Croatia, amounts to an effort to create a joint peace project of Contact Group members and other interested parties. This effort should be fully supported by the international community and presented to the belligerent parties as the basic framework for solving the crisis. The de facto recognition of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and of the Srpska Republic by the Sarajevo Government, as well as the acceptance by Bosnian Serbs of the Contact Group plan dividing the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a 51:49 ratio, should certainly facilitate the next phase in peace negotiations. The changing approach of the Serb party to peace initiatives of the international community, especially to the latest United States plan, confirms the more cooperative approach of Belgrade to finding a peaceful solution acceptable to all sides. This is definitely a positive. By the same token we supported the joint North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)-United Nations operation, even though we realize that in and of themselves, air strikes would not resolve the conflict. Effective cooperation between the United Nations and NATO in implementing relevant Security Council resolutions has demonstrated that NATO has a very important role to play in the region. Solving the problem of Eastern Slavonia should also be on the agenda of current peace efforts. The Czech Republic is ready to continue its active participation in peace missions in the former Yugoslavia, whether under United Nations auspices or under some regional arrangement according to Chapter VIII of the Charter. Needless to say, the Czech Republic will continue to the best of its abilities to provide humanitarian assistance, and intends to participate in the post-war reconstruction of the war-ravaged areas. There has been a great increase in the number of peace-keeping operations since the end of the cold war. In the last five years, more peace-keeping operations have been launched than during the entire previous existence of the United Nations. In 1995, 16 peace-keeping operations were functioning, compared to eight in 1988, with almost 70,000 personnel. Expenditures rose about five times. This issue is inextricably connected with the critical financial situation of the United Nations. The United Nations is almost $4 billion in the red. The Czech Republic supports not only the reform of financing peace- keeping operations, but of the entire system of United Nations financing. The system should be based on economic indicators — per capita national product — and should correspond to a given country’s ability to pay. Let me assure you that the Czech Republic takes its responsibility very seriously. We are prepared to pay our fair share of the burden immediately and in full, as soon as this share is decided and we receive formal notification from the Secretary-General. Czech authorities are right now drafting legislation which, if adopted, would create a legal framework for the Czech Republic’s participation in the United Nations stand-by arrangements. The system should be as effective as possible. Similarly, initiatives aimed at the establishment of United Nations rapid-reaction units to be based on this system — including, for example, the recent 11 Canadian proposals to this effect — have our understanding. Resolving all political, organizational and financial issues will take time, yet we feel that this is a promising way of addressing the critical question of getting peace-keeping operations started in time. We hope very soon to become a party to the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. We share the burden of peace-keeping operations by sending troops, military observers and other personnel, and therefore have a keen foreign-policy interest in strengthening their status and security. Strengthening regimes of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is high on the agenda of the United Nations. It is our view, shaped by, among other things, the recent horrific discoveries of the United Nations Special Commission in Iraq, that the Security Council should play a more important role in this regard. The unlimited extension of the Non-Proliferation Treaty attained earlier this year in this very building is a success of truly historic importance. An important task is the preparation of an agreement on a complete and comprehensive ban of nuclear tests. We hope that the intensive negotiations at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva will reach a successful conclusion in 1996. And let me make one point: nuclear tests undertaken despite vocal protests from around the world do not contribute to the objective of global denuclearization. The expectation of an early ratification of the 1993 Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction has not yet been realized. Nevertheless, we hope that in 1996 the Convention will enter into force. Existing regimes of export and import controls for dual-use material, equipment and technologies are also very useful. They complement or expand on international agreements, conventions and treaties concerning the banning, elimination and non-proliferation of weapons, especially those of mass destruction. I have in mind in particular activities of the so-called Australia Group, the Nuclear Suppliers’ Group, the Missile Technology Control Regime and the emerging New Forum, the new multilateral arrangement on export controls. The importance of the topics of this year’s United Nations conferences, the Social Summit in Copenhagen and the Beijing Fourth World Conference on Women, attracted broad public attention — which, for that matter, was one of the objectives of their organizers. As we reflect on these conferences, evaluate their final documents and review the fate of the documents that emerged from earlier conferences, we are contemplating the very future of such meetings. Notwithstanding all the expectations and enthusiasm that accompany them, we note the increasing disenchantment from the moment a conference is over and its conclusions are to be implemented. It then becomes obvious that large parts of its declarations fail the litmus test of practicality. One wonders: do the tremendous efforts and the very considerable outlays involved in organizing such activities really have the end effect we would all desire? We are not sure that we can answer in the affirmative. The Czech Republic is a candidate for membership in the Economic and Social Council at this year’s elections. The successes of our economic transformation have already proved to be of interest to other economies in transition. And they have allowed the Czech Republic to become an emerging donor country in the economic-assistance equation. These are some of the arguments I would submit to support our candidature. We of course realize that the Council is as badly in need of reform and streamlining as other segments of the United Nations body, and maybe more. We are prepared to offer our analytical skills in suggesting improvements and to support reasonable proposals leading to such reforms. Allow to me say a few words from the perspective of another high office I currently hold, that of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The United Nations and the Council of Europe have a number of points in common. These common points should be further explored with a view to eliminating duplication even across organizations, economizing expenses and leveraging our resources. Some ideas about cooperating in the triangle of the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe have recently been shared in Strasbourg. I have full confidence that any ideas that are deemed useful will be further examined and implemented by our organizations. The Czech Republic wishes to demonstrate its continued emphasis on multinational diplomacy and on assuming its proper role in the governance of world affairs. We have been doing so in the Security Council these past years; we do so by sending our troops, military 12 observers and other personnel to far-flung corners of the world; and we do so by offering multilateral and bilateral assistance. Putting our shoulder to the wheel, we join others in moving this organization of ours into the next millennium and into its next 50 years. It is with special fervour that I congratulate Mr. Freitas do Amaral, on behalf of the Philippine delegation, on his election as President of the United Nations General Assembly in this landmark session. Let me also express the gratitude of my delegation to Mr. Amara Essy, the Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, for the excellent leadership which he provided us at our forty-ninth session. Our tribute goes also to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali and to the men and women of the Secretariat, who, in the course of the past year, carried out their indispensable tasks under circumstances of great difficulty for them and for the Organization. In three weeks, most of the world’s Heads of State or Government will gather in this Hall to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the birth of the United Nations. They will no doubt recall how the founding fathers of our Organization convened in San Francisco, animated by their resolve to transform the world. It was a world devastated by a global war. Like most wars, it was ignited by the propensity and ability of nations to use force to acquire territory and resources, to avenge past wrongs, or to promote, at the expense of others, the security and welfare of their people. This was the world which the United Nations was created to transform. Our founding fathers were idealistic enough to insist that questions of war and peace had ultimately to be resolved in the hearts and minds of men and nations; but they were realistic enough to recognize that practical measures and considerations were necessary to deter the use of force and mitigate its effects. They were realistic enough to concede that States that held a preponderance of military force had to be allowed a large measure of authority and responsibility; but they were idealistic enough to hope that those States would use their power for the good of all. With the hindsight of 50 years, we can see that the United Nations has not fulfilled the vision that the founders had for it, but it succeeded well beyond what it was reasonable to expect of it at that time. The world was spared yet another global cataclysm. The quiet work of the United Nations, particularly through its specialized agencies, advanced the well-being and raised the standard of living of countless millions around the world. Sadly, however, these considerable achievements were offset, in a fundamental way, by the continued and repeated defiance of the United Nations proclaimed purposes by so many men and nations, in so many instances. Almost from the beginning of the existence of the United Nations, and despite the United Nations, man persisted in his ability, propensity and willingness to use force in order to achieve his national or ideological ends. If peace was kept on a global scale, it was only because the mutual threat of nuclear annihilation deterred the launching of full-scale war. In the international economy, countries sought to beggar their neighbours through the unabashed use of a full range of protectionist and mercantilist tools. Today, however, in the fiftieth year of the United Nations, we can say with a measure of plausibility, that the world has indeed been transformed; and we can hope, with a degree of realism, that the idealistic vision of the United Nations can be substantially attained. One of the central aims of the United Nations — the liberation of colonized nations — has been largely achieved. The world’s most mightily armed Powers have pulled back from the brink of nuclear annihilation. No longer do nuclear-armed ideological camps face each other in deadly confrontation, and mankind’s survival no 16 longer hangs in the perilous balance of mutual nuclear threat. The Philippines is gratified by the decision earlier this year to extend indefinitely the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and calls for the conclusion early next year of a comprehensive test-ban treaty that would put an absolute end to all nuclear testing. The international community has reached agreement on the elimination of other devices of mass destruction and of inhumane weapons. In particular, the Philippines urges the ratification and the strengthening of the 1980 Convention on the Prohibition of Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to be Excessively Injurious or to have Indiscriminate Effects. We call for the early entry into force of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, and the full implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) Weapons and Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction. In place of the use and threat of force, more and more nations have resorted to dialogue and reconciliation in dealing with disputes among themselves or with their neighbours, even in the case of conflicts which the “realistic” had considered to be insoluble. Almost throughout its entire existence, the United Nations has been seized with the conflicts in the Middle East. But only four days ago, Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, with the approbation of other States in the area, took another significant step on the difficult road to peace. In South Africa, where a minority regime long oppressed the majority with systematic cruelty, a multiracial Government now administers the country with success that has surpassed even the world’s most fervent expectations. In Latin America, old territorial disputes are now the subject of dialogue and consultation. In our own region, the political settlement of the conflict in Cambodia and the emergence of an elected government in that long-suffering country stand as crowning achievements of the United Nations, as well as of the countries of the region — a triumph of negotiation over the force of arms. We welcome the accord that was so painstakingly crafted a year ago to avert the development of nuclear arms in the Korean peninsula. We urge the resumption of serious talks between North and South Korea as a further contribution to peace and reconciliation in our region. The Government of Myanmar has agreed on a cease-fire and has undertaken negotiations with all but one of the minority nationalities in Myanmar, a remarkable development in a country riven by inter-ethnic conflict for so long. Matching the spread of the spirit of dialogue and reconciliation, faith in the efficacy of market forces and economic liberalization as a condition and stimulant of development has been sweeping the world. Policies arising from this faith have unleashed the productive energies of many of the world’s people, a development largely responsible for the remarkable economic growth of countries in many parts of the world. Liberalization of international economic transactions and the resulting interdependence of the global economy have raised the stake of nations in one another’s prosperity and have thus considerably brightened the prospects of enduring stability and peace. Thus, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, of which the Philippines is an active founding participant, is devoted solely to economic collaboration. But one of its salutary by-products is the strengthening of peace and security in the Asia-Pacific region, for now APEC participants have a growing stake in one another’s economic progress and political stability. We find in my country, the Philippines, a microcosm of the global trend of political reconciliation, economic liberalization, and regionalism. The peace talks that we are undertaking with rebel groups in the spirit of national reconciliation have brought a new stability to the country, providing the atmosphere of tranquillity so necessary for the resurgence of the economy. The military rebels have availed themselves of a programme of amnesty. Many of them now pursue their ambitions for the country through the legal political system, with one of them recently elected as a Senator of the Republic. The Government has been negotiating in Europe with the self-exiled leaders of the Communist Party, which is now legal in the Philippines and whose members are free to contest Philippine elections. With the assistance of the Committee of Six of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, under the chairmanship of Indonesia, negotiations are taking place with the Moro National Liberation Front. These negotiations have resulted in a cease-fire and agreement on more than 80 per cent of the points at issue. Peace in the southern Philippines has made possible an extraordinary surge in the economic growth of that region. We have opened wide the doors to the Philippine economy, welcoming foreign investment, letting in the bracing wind of foreign competition. We have lowered 17 our barriers to trade in fulfilment of international commitments or through unilateral measures. One of the results of these structural reforms is a growth rate that is respectable even by the standards of our fast-growing region. There are bright prospects for the continuation of this growth rate because it proceeds from solid policy foundations and is taking place within a system of pluralistic democracy, respect for human rights, and the rule of law. We have strengthened our bonds with our neighbours, through the Association of South-East Asian Nations above all. We have dealt with border questions and territorial disputes, including the conflicting claims in the South China Sea, through peaceful dialogue and consultation. The general improvement in global security, the rising tide of global prosperity, and the intensification of regional cooperation should give rise to hope, but it should not induce complacency, as new threats have arisen to confront us and old ones have swollen in magnitude and virulence. The dissolution of power blocs has unleashed latent tribalism that had been under authoritarian constraint. One of the most savage manifestations of this has been taking place in Bosnia and Herzegovina. International terrorism has become a global menace. The illicit trade in drugs undermines the fabric of society. Trafficking in women and children is a crime that cries out for international cooperative countermeasures. The recent resumption of nuclear testing by two of the nuclear-weapon States poses an immediate threat to people’s health, the natural environment, and the non-proliferation regime. We repeat our condemnation of these tests and ask that they stop — now and forever. Even as the notion of economic liberalization has been almost universally embraced as a condition and catalyst for development, many countries have resorted to inventive measures of disguised protectionism. Numerous developing countries continue to labour, like Sisyphus, under the crushing burden of foreign debt. Shortages of labour in resource-rich or rapidly industrializing economies have induced the large-scale migration of workers across national boundaries. Their presence in foreign lands has placed them in positions of vulnerability that require international cooperation for the protection of their rights and dignity as human beings. The Philippines calls upon all States to ratify the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of their Families. The Philippines is at one with the Group of 77 in calling for a United Nations-sponsored global conference on international migration. My delegation intends to pursue with great vigour General Assembly resolutions on violence against women migrant workers and on trafficking in women and girls. These are some of the more outstanding challenges that confront the United Nations as it enters its second half-century and approaches the next millennium. The United Nations, however, cannot respond to the challenges of today and the next century with the organization and procedures of 50 years ago. The nature of the new threats to international peace and security requires a review of United Nations peace-keeping operations in order to streamline them and make them more effective. At this stage, I must stress that, whatever measures are agreed upon, they must be financed adequately, in proportion to the capacity and degree of responsibility of Member States and not by sacrificing any development programmes. The United Nations is in a desperate financial situation. We cannot demand that it fulfil tasks that we are unwilling to finance. We cannot simply use the United Nations and then withhold from it the resources needed for its effective functioning. Year after year, we call for better management of the United Nations. The Philippines supports this call, and strongly articulated its position in this Hall last year. At the same time, we must point out that the United Nations cannot be managed efficiently if it is constantly uncertain of the resources available to it. We therefore appeal to all Member States, particularly the larger contributors, to make up their arrears, to pay their dues, and to pay on time. We have of late heard the proposition that in trying to achieve economy and efficiency in the United Nations we should look to the economic and social area, to those bodies whose mandate is to advance the interests of the developing countries — abolishing agencies here, gutting programmes there. We support the streamlining of multilateral development institutions and programmes. But we cannot accept moves to abolish the development 18 agencies in the name of the 'division of labour' or “comparative advantage”. What the international community needs to do with respect to these agencies — and the Bretton Woods institutions and the regional development banks — is to augment their resources, not to reduce them. We deplore the position of some Powers that refuse to raise their contributions to the international and regional financial institutions, but in their desire to maintain a dominant role in those bodies prevent others from increasing their own share. We have all come to this session ready to address the question of reform of the structure of the Security Council. The Council’s structure is no longer adequate to meet the new and enlarged demands upon its mandate and no longer reflects the size and composition of the United Nations. The Philippines fully supports the enlargement of the Council’s membership in order to ensure the equitable representation of all regions and of the developing countries. Any reform, however, must go beyond the question of membership. The question of the veto must be reviewed, as must the Council’s working methods and procedures, in order to ensure the greatest transparency possible and the participation of as broad a range of countries as possible. The vital nature of its decisions requires no less. At the same time, the growing importance of the role of the United Nations requires that its membership, as well as its functions, reflect the realities of today. Accordingly, we need to consider the proposition that, in the high interests of universality, no significant group of people should be left without representation in the United Nations. In this fiftieth year, as we recall the founding principles and fundamental goals of our Organization, as we review its mandate and as we assess its strengths and weaknesses, its achievements and shortcomings, we must never lose sight of the fact that all our labours in the United Nations have as their centre and object the human person — his or her security, dignity and well-being — above ideology, above religion, above even the State itself. With the shrinking of this planet Earth, a process helped in no small measure by the United Nations itself, hundreds of millions more people are crying out for their own empowerment and for the universal respect of their rights and dignity. In this fiftieth year of our Organization, we in the United Nations must heed their cry if we are to keep faith with its mandate and mission. I wish, on behalf of my country, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election as President of the General Assembly. He assumes the presidency on the historic occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. Commendation is in order too for His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for the competence and sensitivity he displayed as he presided over the last session. Let us also take this opportunity to express to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, our profound gratitude for the efforts which he has made so far to achieve greater flexibility, and for the enhancement of the capability of this world body to meet the new challenges posed by the seismic upheavals taking place in the international arena. My delegation is supportive of United Nations reform initiatives. We must redouble our efforts to ensure a more efficient United Nations system that will respond effectively to security and humanitarian needs, promote human rights, and build the capacity for sustainable development. Central to our concerns is the importance of ensuring democracy in the United Nations. If this Organization’s moral authority is to be preserved in an increasingly democratized world, it is inescapable that its own processes must be made more democratic. It is therefore imperative, as we consider the enlargement of the Security Council, that the existing geographic imbalance be noted, and that the five regions of the world be adequately represented. My delegation calls for a more effective and efficient United Nations. We are cognizant of the urgent need to address the deteriorating finances of this great Organization. Since the end of the cold war, funds for development in poorer countries have been drastically reduced, and peace-keeping demands now compete for the limited funds available. In his recent report on the work of the Organization, the Secretary-General revealed that Member States owed the Organization approximately $3.6 billion. Let us all work together to address this issue of arrears, which seriously impairs the effectiveness of the United Nations. The role of peace-keeping forces will have to be redefined. My delegation is concerned when lightly armed peace-keepers or unarmed aid workers on a humanitarian mission are threatened, taken hostage, harmed, or even killed. To preserve the credibility of all United Nations peace operations, personnel must be protected as they 13 carry out the duties that the international community has sent them to accomplish. The recently concluded Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing, has certainly served to raise the level of consciousness worldwide on the many problems that women still encounter in many countries of the United Nations. It is now evident that, even in those countries where legislation has opened the road to equality and equity, traditional attitudes continue to impede this process. I am happy to report that in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, women have been given the opportunity to lead. Over 40 per cent of the top administrative posts in our civil service are held by women. Women also have equal access to the political process and enjoy equal pay for equal work. Moreover, my Government amended the constitution to give women citizenship rights equal to those previously accorded only to men. Adherence to the principles of the United Nations Charter and the right to self-determination of the world’s peoples remain among the fundamental principles of the Charter. This is reflected in the growing membership of the Organization. The Republic of China on Taiwan, which was once a Member of this body, still finds itself on the outside, knocking persistently at the doors of our chambers. It is the view of the delegation of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, which we also expressed at the last session, that the time has come for serious consideration to be given to the eligibility of the Republic of China on Taiwan to become a Member of the United Nations. Our position is based on the principle of universality and in accordance with the established model of parallel representation of divided countries. We have recognized the several parts of the former Yugoslavia, and this model should continue to guide our policy. My delegation believes that the Republic of China on Taiwan is fully equipped to play an expanded role in the world economic arena. Its successful development experience can indeed serve as a reference for developing countries. Not only has the Republic of China on Taiwan achieved economic success but, in a few years, its political system has evolved from one characterized by authoritarian rule into one based on democratic principles. We cannot preach about the universality of the United Nations while at the same time ignoring the aspirations of over 21 million people. It is more than time for the Republic of China on Taiwan to be given the opportunity to make a tangible contribution to the work of the United Nations. My delegation reiterates its strong commitment to the peaceful settlement of disputes among States. The Gulf War is now behind us, but the international community must continue to recognize the potential for conflict that still exists in that part of the world. In January 1995, the Secretary-General issued a Supplement to his “Agenda for Peace” of 1992, which highlighted new kinds of United Nations operations to deal with the outbreak of ethnic and religious wars within newly independent States. It is the fervent hope of my delegation that a lasting peace will come to the troubled regions of the world, particularly to Bosnia and Herzegovina. One can recall when the despicable system of apartheid was demolished in South Africa, just over a year ago. It therefore behoves us to eradicate such evil thoughts as “ethnic cleansing” from the minds of men in other parts of the world. Let me take this opportunity to applaud the efforts of the Israeli Government and the leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) to pursue peace talks despite the efforts of terrorists to derail the process. My delegation fully supports a peaceful resolution of the conflict that has plagued that region of the world for so many years. The Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States was of great importance to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The vulnerability of small island States such as ours is of grave concern and we eagerly look forward to the implementation of the Programme of Action agreed to in Barbados in 1994. Less than one month ago, the Caribbean region felt the impact of several storms and hurricanes which severely ravaged our sister islands of Antigua and Barbuda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Dominica, Saint Maarten, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. In the spirit of Caribbean brotherhood, the entire rest of the region came to the support of those affected. The Prime Minister, Sir James Mitchell, in his capacity as current Chairman of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), along with Prime Minister Compton of Saint Lucia and Prime Minister Arthur of Barbados, immediately embarked on a tour of the islands which were severely hit. 14 A national effort was mobilized in my own country for relief supplies. My delegation takes this opportunity to call for further external assistance, which remains crucial. On behalf of the Government and people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, I wish to convey our profound sympathy to the Governments and the peoples of the islands affected, particularly to the families of those who lost their lives as a result of Hurricanes Luis and Marilyn. We also wish to express our sympathy to the Government and the people of the United States of America, and more specifically the families of those who lost their lives in the senseless bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma earlier this year. Our small and fragile States are now being threatened by another type of disaster — an economic disaster, with mounting pressures being exerted by very powerful forces which appear not to understand the importance of the banana industry to our very survival. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the other banana producing countries of the Windward Islands are limited to a mere three per cent of the world market trade in the commodity. The powerful multinational companies which are seeking to reverse the special arrangements under the Lomé Convention already control over 80 per cent of the world market. More profits for multinational companies must not be to the detriment of the small islands striving to maintain democracy. The destruction of the Caribbean banana industry will create economic and social havoc nationally and regionally, and will undoubtedly have severe repercussions at the international level. We recognize the momentum for free trade, but see no reason why, as obtains with issues related to other agricultural regions, of various countries, we cannot be given the time to adjust and restructure our economies. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has already seen its active involvement and participation at the regional level in the Caribbean as an indispensable dimension of its role as a member of the international community. We have consistently defined our objective to become members of our various institutional bodies as a logical and natural culmination of our international vocation. This definition is rooted in our country’s political, social and economic realities, as they have been shaped by our historical and cultural heritage. As a member of the recently established Association of Caribbean States (ACS), we are indeed delighted to be given a greater opportunity to strengthen relations with our Latin American neighbours. Comprising some 200 million ethnically and culturally diverse peoples, the ACS will serve as a vehicle to promote the implementation of policies and programmes designed to harness, utilize and develop the potential of the Caribbean Sea, promote and enhance economic space for trade and investment opportunities, and establish and augment, as appropriate, institutional structures and cooperative arrangements responsive to the various cultural identities within the region. My Government totally condemns the illicit production, trafficking and consumption of drugs. These harbingers of violent crimes and corruption create a serious menace to the health and well-being of our economies and our people, threaten our democratic institutions, and endanger national and regional security. We are firmly convinced that only integrated regional and international efforts can effectively address the drug problem, and accordingly stress the need for increased local, regional and international cooperation. Greater emphasis should be placed on programmes that generate employment and income for persons attracted to drug production and trafficking as a means of livelihood. With the end of the cold war, the international community, freed of the ideological and other constraints of the East-West struggle, saw new opportunities to respond more effectively to longstanding problems that had defied resolution because of super-Power rivalries. There was optimistic talk of the “peace-dividend”, and the Security Council acted with unprecedented consensus and momentum on many issues. At the same time, the thawing of the cold war triggered long-suppressed tensions and conflicts in many parts of the world. Serious global economic and social problems, ranging from poverty, over-population, refugees and migration, to unemployment, drug-trafficking and environmental decline, have affected many societies on an unprecedented scale. Despite the dramatically diminished threat of a nuclear war, the world of the 1990s turns out to be a far more unstable place than many had hoped. The reality of global interdependence, while promising new opportunities for cooperation and exchange, reminds us all too often of our shared and persistent problems. We face more tensions in more places: increasing degradation of the quality of human life and even more complex issues 15 of international laws and ethics, management and practical cooperation. It is therefore clear that the United Nations system is in greater demand than ever before. As we commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of this great Organization, let us work in harmony and ensure that the United Nations is adequately prepared to face the challenges of an even more complex world. We must never forget that the United Nations is a reflection of the real world. If an ugly image appears, one should not blame the mirror. I take great pleasure today in addressing this distinguished world audience on behalf of the delegation of Equatorial Guinea in the context of the fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. I wish first to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to preside over our work. I wish him every success in the presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. He can always rely on the cooperation and solidarity of my delegation. This fiftieth session of the Assembly is taking place at a time when we are seeing a radical change of course — a needed one, in our opinion — in the life of the United Nations in today’s world. In its first half-century, as a speaker has already said in this Hall, the United Nations has been a child of its time, the time of the aftermath of the Second World War. It came into being to work for peace, world security and development. Now we must determine whether these objectives have been achieved. Peace meant avoiding war and military conflict. Global security meant preventing the escalation of conflicts. Development meant mobilizing the financial resources required for the reconstruction of the world and to redress its underdevelopment. As we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations we are bound to acknowledge that although the Organization has achieved certain successes in the area of preventing disputes among nations and has taken measures and initiatives to promote the resolution of certain conflicts, peace, security and development are not yet permanent features of daily life in our earthly home. The fall of the East-West ideological barriers artificially imposed by the cold war aroused expectations of an age of peace in the world. The spread of democracy and the new world-wide awareness of the importance of respect for human rights further heightened these expectations at the beginning of this decade. In this context my country, the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, has striven to achieve these objectives of peace, security and development. Following the ousting of the dictatorship and the one-party system, our Government, as early as 1979, adopted a consistent and comprehensive strategy which was a reflection of a national consensus in favour of a model of society for the future of our nation that would be based on peace, democracy and development. In this context we have undertaken a series of political reforms fully supported by all forces and currents of opinion in our society. Since 1992 the Government, following the lead of His Excellency, Mr. Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President of the Republic and Head of State of Equatorial Guinea, has been responsive to the people’s aspirations to freedom, democracy and participation in the management of public affairs. With a population of only 420,000 the country has 14 legal political movements. This programme was established and has been satisfactorily implemented since 1993, with municipal elections having been held on 17 September 1995. The Constitution and the electoral timetable that has been established provide for the holding of presidential elections in the coming year, 1996. However, despite these endeavours and despite my Government’s resolve to secure fundamental freedoms for our people on a firm foundation, foreign interests, for their own unavowed purposes, want to see the democratic process in my country shaped as the saying is “in the image and likeness” of those alien interests. Since the beginning of the political transition the treatment meted out to Equatorial Guinea by certain States Members of the Organization has been utterly different from that granted to other countries in Central Africa and in the rest of the continent, whose political evolution has been similar to our own, involving in some cases tragic consequences; that leads us to suspect that the 23 disinformation and defamation campaign waged internationally against the Government of Equatorial Guinea is the manifestation of hegemonistic ambitions and struggles for influence that threaten not only the peace and social harmony that prevail in the country but also its territorial integrity. We do not understand how Equatorial Guinea’s democratization process differs from what is going on in other countries in our area. We have said yes to pluralism, democracy and participation. We have said yes to human rights, and we practise respect for human rights. We do not understand why different types of measures are applied to my country. We regret that instead of receiving moral support and solidarity to help us consolidate our achievements, we are subjected to economic blockades and the unilateral suspension of cooperative programmes agreed by convention. Instead of receiving understanding for what could be the result of deficiencies of structure or of democratic culture in the society of Equatorial Guinea as a whole, we are subjected to reproach, intimidation, threats and a humiliating and intolerable interference in our country’s internal affairs. We do not believe that a tragic breakdown of social and economic structures, such as has taken place in the brotherly countries of Liberia, Rwanda, Angola, Somalia and other countries and regions of the African continent, represents the best form of cooperation with and assistance to African peoples. I wish to declare before this forum of the international community that outside influences are engineering and instigating an internal conflict in my country that would have unforeseeable consequences. Indeed, some political circles and communications media are waging a campaign from Spain, the old colonial Power, to intensify the differences between the people of Equatorial Guinea, supporting some and harassing others, thus provoking divisions and antagonisms. Even graver is the support offered to the Self-determination Movement of the Island of Bioko, a secessionist group. In addition, a station of Radio Exterior de España has been created and aimed expressly at Equatorial Guinea to carry out a poisonous disinformation campaign deliberately intended to distort the socio-political reality of the country. The broadcasts of Radio Exterior de España are the most disruptive element in the country’s democratization process and constitute a Petri dish that spawns acts of violence and the destabilization of Equatorial Guinea’s social structures. We wish to apprise the international community of this matter, and we ask it to request the Spanish Government to put an end to this aggression perpetrated from its territory by the public entity Radio Exterior de España and by certain political circles. Under the pretext of supporting the democratic process under way in our country, those political circles, consisting of Parliamentarians, party and labour leaders, associations and pressure groups, clandestinely support, coordinate and finance secessionist movements and political parties standing in radical opposition to the legitimate Government of Equatorial Guinea. This overt interference is intended to bring about violent political changes in my country. Clear evidence of this interference can be seen in the current disinformation and discreditation campaign being waged from Spain by those political circles and communications media following the municipal elections held in my country on 17 September last. Those circles planned and illegally financed the electoral campaign of the radical opposition, banded together in the Joint Opposition Platform (POC). They have created confusion by trying to manipulate the electoral results. Those same Spanish political circles are today trying to manipulate international public opinion by falsely accusing the Government of electoral fraud and violations of human rights. The recent report of the United Nations Special Rapporteur, Mr. Alejandro Artucio, suffices to give the lie to these accusations. My Government complies with the programme and recommendations of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. One cannot credibly claim to be supporting political reform in my country by stirring up antagonism and disputes between the political sectors of my country. One cannot credibly claim to be helping the people of Equatorial Guinea by suspending cooperation in the educational, health and agricultural sectors. One cannot credibly claim to be helping the people of Equatorial Guinea by inciting the donor community to block projects of proven social effectiveness. We sincerely believe that one cannot help any people by depriving it of the resources and opportunities to improve its living conditions. My country lives in peace and order. We just need a friendly, sincere and respectful helping hand. We are told that there can be no development without democracy, and we agree. But our experience, which we believe has been shared by other developing countries, is that 24 democracy amid poverty and underdevelopment is a pipe dream. Poverty and underdevelopment breed violence and social and political instability. We therefore sincerely seek international relations characterized by mutual support and solidarity, not partisan pressure, in order to consolidate this climate that makes democracy and the development of our peoples possible. My second request, in accordance with what the developing countries have been asking for for over a decade, is that the current unfair international economic system be replaced. Nevertheless, all these global agreements — such as those of the recent World Summit for Social Development, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing, and the latest agreements of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) — have served only to bring us to today’s sad impasse, which reveals the radical and irreconcilable attitudes of both sides. The so-called developed countries of the North and the developing countries of the South, divided by selfishness, ambition and intolerance, deprive future generations of a better world. A few days before celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization, there still persists in the United Nations the spirit of a bipolar world dominated by suspicions on both sides, mistrust, discrimination, attitudes of superiority, a lack of political will to develop frank and sincere cooperation and a desire for hegemony in international relations. The response of the United Nations to the questions asked by those who spoke before me and to the challenges of the new changes on the international stage must contain two indispensable elements. The first is that the United Nations should represent the interests of everyone, by introducing certain structural reforms making it possible to attain the objectives for which it was created. Secondly, we must provide the United Nations with a deeper-going capacity for genuine dialogue between the nations that make it up and speak to the world in a language of understanding. The necessary dialogue must be global and must encompass all aspects of international relations, be they economic, political or cultural. It is impractical to limit dialogue between nations, regardless of their size and power, since all the countries of the world must take an active part in the dialogue process in order to arrive together at a common and secure destiny, abandoning no one to the abyss of underdevelopment and abject poverty. This is the challenge of the next 50 years for our Organization. May God bless the United Nations. Please accept my congratulations, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. This attests to your excellent qualities, which will undoubtedly contribute to the successful discussion of all the items on the agenda. I would like to take this opportunity to express special appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his great contribution to the solution of international problems of the world community and his efficient management aimed at the establishment of new relations between nations in the twenty-first century. We have to note that this anniversary session of the General Assembly is taking place at a time of increased tension and continued armed conflicts in different parts of the globe. One of the most dangerous and complicated is the Bosnian conflict. Events in Bosnia defy straightforward interpretation. At the same time, the readiness recently displayed by the parties in conflict to settle existing problems on the basis of adherence to the principles of State sovereignty inspires optimism and hope that long-awaited peace will be established in the Balkans. In Kazakstan’s opinion one of the most important conditions for achieving peace is that respective countries in the territory of the former Yugoslavia continue to exist as sovereign States within the borders recognized by the world community. We highly appreciate the role of the United Nations peace-keeping forces, which in differing situations have done their best to contain conflicts and alleviate the consequences of hostilities for the civilian population. We have no doubt that the Organization has to exercise all its authority in such situations. The world community should provide more effective assistance to the United Nations so that it can use its peace-keeping forces in areas of conflict in a more efficient and timely manner. Creation of regional and global structures designed to promote long-lasting peace is an important aspect of international security. The balance of forces, upset after 24 the end of the cold war, should be restored not through the establishment of new military and political alliances but through international treaties and agreements promoting security and stability and through the establishment and use of effective mechanisms of preventive diplomacy. We view as quite successful the activities of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), whose sphere of responsibility includes not only Europe but Central Asia as well. A high degree of efficiency in security matters concerning the Asian and Pacific region is being displayed by the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) forum. Kazakstan, for its part, continues its work towards the convening of a conference on interaction and confidence- building measures in Asia. The forum’s mandate is being drawn up by the Special Working Group. We believe that all the countries of the Asian continent, despite their heterogeneity, have an equal interest in durable peace and stability, which is an important guarantee for their progressive movement towards economic prosperity and internal stability. Taking this opportunity, I urge all Asian countries to contribute to the realization of this idea, expressed by President Nazarbayev from the rostrum of this lofty Organization at the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly. We firmly believe that no matter how strong and effective the United Nations may be, no matter how comprehensive its activities are, security and peace should be the backbone of the policy of all countries, irrespective of their capabilities and regional affiliation. We see that in the new geopolitical reality more emphasis is being placed on meeting the various needs of the individual. There is a general understanding that quick solutions of security and stability issues cannot and should not take the place of a long-term strategy of sustainable development. In other words, in today’s world there is an emerging tendency towards a gradual transition from national security to human security. The Republic of Kazakstan, which used to be a de facto nuclear-weapon State and now is a nuclear-free State, is making its contribution to these global transformations. The elimination of all existing nuclear warheads in Kazakstan’s territory and of the last nuclear charge at the already-closed Semipalatinsk nuclear-test site has been a highly important step in the fulfilment of Kazakstan’s international obligations. Kazakstan is a consistent advocate of a moratorium on nuclear tests and of a comprehensive test-ban treaty, which should be concluded as soon as possible but not later than next year. Addressing the United Nations Conference on Disarmament in June 1995 in Geneva, Kazakstan’s President reaffirmed its commitment to the consistent policy of the strengthening of international security in its new interpretation. The President of Kazakstan stressed that various needs of the individual must be met. Indeed, the success of the disarmament process is measured today not only by the percentage of warheads and delivery systems cut but also by the increase in the production of goods for the people. In the light of the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit, emerging models of human development should include new concepts for solving educational, employment, environmental and health-care problems. Urgent and effective measures are needed to address a dangerous growth in unemployment — an especially pressing problem for the economies in transition. We believe that these countries can legitimately expect from the United Nations the adoption of special measures promoting their sustainable development. The priority that this matter should be given by the United Nations can be explained by a number of factors. Indeed, modern geo-economic trends reflect the fact that in the near future world economic centres in North America, South-East Asia and Europe will emerge or be strengthened. The stability and effectiveness of these centres cannot be imagined without their involvement in trade and economic relations with the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, which, even taken separately, represent significant economic and political entities capable of filling existing gaps in relations between Europe and Asia, North and South. It is relevant, first of all, in the case of Kazakstan — a major Central Asian State. Speaking of the need to adapt the United Nations system to the new geo-political realities, we think that the potential of the countries of Central Asia should be taken into account. Their capabilities in the formulation of the strategies of sustainable development and peace-making are becoming stronger. Close attention should be paid to the impetus for cooperation with the United Nations, in the interest of a secure world, that is being served by these countries. 25 In this context, I would like to draw attention to President Nazarbayev’s initiative regarding the establishment, under the auspices of the United Nations, of a unit of the armed forces of three Central Asian republics — Kazakstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. In our opinion, this would contribute to the strengthening of security and peace in Central Asia — a region which also has its areas of conflict. In the opinion of Kazakstan, priority attention in cooperation between the United Nations and the economies in transition should be paid to the protection of the environment, which is one of the five main dimensions of development. In the Central Asian region, the ecological threat is one of the most dangerous threats to human security. We think that the world community should pay special attention to the tragedy of the Aral Sea region. According to the World Bank, in the next 25 years, the efforts to restore an ecological balance in the region will require $50 billion. Such a project is not feasible without financial assistance from international organizations. Thus, we are interested in the search for new international sources of financing, and support the idea of devising a system of international taxes on arms transfers and transactions, involving currency flows, to achieve global human, including ecological, security. I would like to say a few words about United Nations reforms. The position of Kazakstan on this issue is as follows. Reforms are necessary, but they should be carried out with the utmost care, in order to avoid upsetting the balance of the whole system of international relations. The Charter of the United Nations should largely remain as the basis and the reference point for the work of the Organization, to which there is no alternative in the modern world. Major changes that have taken place in the world since the creation of the United Nations should be reflected in the composition of the Security Council. Kazakstan believes that the number of Council members, including the number of permanent members, could, in principle, be increased. We welcome measures taken by the Secretary-General to reduce expenses related to the activities of the Secretariat. It is important, in our opinion, that such an essential body as the International Court of Justice should also be adapted to present-day requirements. The idea of having important decisions adopted in an economic security council appears to be worthy of attention, considering the need, in the view of many countries, to reorganize and revitalize the Economic and Social Council. Debates on fundamental United Nations documents — the reports by the United Nations Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development” — reveal the need for a more detailed analysis of ways to develop society by meeting the social, economic, political and cultural needs of the individual. We are especially aware of this now as we celebrate, under the auspices of UNESCO, the 150th anniversary of Abai, a great Kazak poet, educator and philosopher, who devoted his life to the mutual spiritual and cultural enrichment of nations. The desire to jointly solve the issues of “peace and development” also lies at the heart of our proposal to set up a United Nations commission for central Asia — a joint body of the Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) and the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). This idea was initially proposed by the President of the Republic of Kazakstan, Mr. N. Nazarbaev, at the Summit of the member States of the Economic Cooperation Organization in 1993 in Istanbul. The common nature of the social, economic and political objectives of the countries in the region, on the threshold of the twenty-first century, determines the need to establish regional mechanisms for their attainment and to create appropriate structures. The progress achieved by the countries of Central Asia in this regard is reflected by the rather effective activities of the OECD, as well as those of the economic union between Kazakstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. Speaking about the importance of this problem for the Central Asian States, I would like to note that, judging by past experience, the efforts of two important regional Commissions — ESCAP and ECE — are not adequately coordinated with regard to this group of countries. As a result, the republics of Central Asia are not sufficiently involved in their programmes. As the United Nations Organization approaches its fiftieth anniversary, it has great accomplishments to its credit in peacemaking and in the strengthening of international security. As a well-known Japanese writer once said: only life filled with a workaday routine might be worse and more dreadful than a war. Least of all would we like to see the United Nations as a structure which mechanically services the demands of mankind on a day-by-day basis. In other words, we do not want to see the 26 United Nations as a rigid structure, insensitive to the profound changes of our rapidly changing times. The world continues to pin its hopes on the United Nations as a concentrated source of wisdom, justice and responsiveness to the sufferings of mankind. The world appeals to the United Nations to rise above immediate plans and programmes in order to appreciate fully the mosaic of modern international relations in all their variety and diversity. And we firmly believe that the United Nations should adequately respond to the aspirations of all peoples yearning for peace and tranquillity, aspirations born out of their very existence. I bring with me the warmest greetings and good wishes of His Majesty King Mswati III, Her Majesty the Indlovukazi, the Government and the people of the Kingdom of Swaziland, to all our friends and fellow Members of the United Nations. Swaziland extends its congratulations to Mr. Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly, and commends his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for his leadership and direction as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. The Kingdom of Swaziland would also like to take this opportunity to express its deep appreciation to our distinguished Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his relentless efforts in directing the affairs of our vast Organization, and whose skill and diplomacy have contributed so much to our achievements over the past twelve months. Each year since 1945 the General Assembly has provided us with a chance to reflect on our achievements, as well as on our failures over the preceding twelve months; the goals we have met and others which, for a variety reasons, have been missed. This process of self- assessment is an essential element of any organization; and for the United Nations there is a special significance to our deliberations this year as we mark fifty years of its existence. Perhaps the most important development of the last five decades has been the emergence of a new world order, in both political and economic terms, brought about by the transformation of many parts of the world through new-found freedom and independence from both colonial domination and oppressive ideologies. Hopes continue to be raised that this new world order would result in a strengthened commitment to achieve common development objectives on a truly global basis. Never before have the nations of the world been given this opportunity to work together, with collective responsibility, towards achieving real global security — social, economic and political — for all our peoples. There have undoubtedly been many encouraging signs that we are taking our responsibilities towards one another seriously, but we remain a long way behind in realizing the ambitions of those ideals on which the United Nations was established. The foundations of our Organization were built on the ruins of a world torn apart by war. 'Never again' was the cry of all mankind, and our structures and principles were focused on the equal development of all nations, and on the prevention of the occurrences of such destruction ever again. And yet, with all the commitment and promises, it seems that only very recently have we seen any progress towards global peace in this century. Certainly, the end of the cold war did not bring the world-wide stability envisaged by all of us at that time. Events such as the Gulf War, the tragedy in the former Yugoslavia and the genocide in Rwanda have shaken our belief that human beings could ever live peacefully, side by side, with one another. Recent developments have shown, however, that there is a new mood abroad — one that is based on a spirit of reconciliation and a desire for peace that gives us all reason for hope that real progress towards lasting global stability may be possible after all. Swaziland recognizes the role of the United Nations in bringing about this new climate of promise, and our Organization deserves great credit in its continuing commitment to this noble aim. The Kingdom of Swaziland joins the rest of the responsible world in welcoming the recent signing of the agreement with a view to the extension of autonomy to the Palestinian people in the West Bank. This latest agreement confirms the commitment of the Israeli and Palestinian peoples to a lasting settlement of the problem that has hung like a dark cloud over the Middle East for so long. We congratulate all who have been involved in the process leading to the agreement, but most of all, we applaud the spirit of reconciliation of the leaders and both peoples and their commitment to peace. We appeal to all in the Middle East region to embrace the same spirit so that future generations will never have to experience the instability and uncertainty of the past. There are encouraging signs, too, evident in recent developments with regard to the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Last month the world witnessed the first steps towards the prospect of a settlement in the Balkans. The Kingdom of Swaziland prays that the momentum will continue until a solution may be found that is acceptable to all in that troubled area. Swaziland welcomes the recent initiative leading to the signing of an agreement in Washington and agrees that the first priority, now, must be to ensure a lasting cease-fire and to create an atmosphere in which the people who have suffered so much in recent years may at last begin to bring some order into their broken lives. The past twelve months have seen major and welcome progress in a number of troubled areas on our own continent of Africa, while other regrettable situations have surfaced to threaten the stability of the continent as a whole. Clearly, the commitment of all African countries to the establishment by the Organization of African Unity of a mechanism for the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts is central to Africa’s efforts in accepting responsibility for its own problems. Swaziland strongly supports this initiative and joins its brother African States in calling for the support of the United Nations in this important enterprise. Swaziland has been especially heartened by the developments towards a lasting settlement in Angola, engineered to a large degree by the efforts of our United Nations Special Envoy. The signing of the Lusaka peace accord has brought real hope that the two sides to the conflict are now committed to peace and that the Angolan people will now be given the chance to make a new start in a country that has the potential to play such a vital role in the development of the subregion as a whole. The Kingdom of Swaziland stands ready to support and to encourage the development of Angola and its people. Swaziland commends the efforts made by the international community and the neighbouring countries of Rwanda and Burundi in bringing about an atmosphere of relative calm to the two countries after a time of great suffering and hardship. Of particular note has been the role of those countries playing host to so many refugees from the conflicts in the area. Swaziland knows full well — and with recent firsthand experience — the problems associated with such a task. It is an obligation to one’s fellow human beings to offer refuge in times of conflict, but however willing a country may be to welcome refugees from conflict and strife, the strain on the host country’s resources may be too great for them to cope with alone, and outside help is absolutely critical. The role of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is essential in this regard, and we commend the work of that Office wherever it is needed. In the course of the 50 years of its operation, our Organization has learnt many valuable lessons, including 2 the realization that we must adapt to changing circumstances and to the varying needs of all our Members. The challenges facing us have grown and spread into areas on a scale perhaps not imagined by our founders — challenges such as international security and peace-keeping, the promotion of justice and democracy, and the fight against economic and social inequalities among the Members of our family of nations. And as the roles of the United Nations expand and develop, so should our capacity to undertake them. Reform and adaptability are the key imperatives for us as we approach the new millennium, and in this spirit, we welcome the new agendas for peace and development which have been initiated under the guidance of our Secretary-General. These initiatives, which are at the heart of what we are trying to achieve here, create particular obligations for all our Members and for the Organization itself: we all have a responsibility to demonstrate real commitment towards the principles we all have accepted. Thus, our calls for extended United Nations peace-keeping must be supported by full and timely contributions to the relevant budget by all countries, and by a commitment to global peace, which has clearly been lacking in many areas of the world. This commitment embraces the issue that has posed possibly the greatest threat to global security in the second half of this century: that of containing the spread of nuclear weapons and, ultimately, achieving a nuclear-weapon-free world. In this context, Swaziland enthusiastically supported, earlier this year, the application to extend indefinitely the Treaty on nuclear non-proliferation, and we look forward to a successful conclusion to the negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty. Swaziland is confident that the Secretariat of the United Nations, under the wise and able leadership of His Excellency the Secretary-General, is all too aware of its own responsibilities to adapt and reform elements of the Organization’s structures, in line with the wishes of its Members and with regard to achieving efficiency, adaptability and full representation of the global community in order to meet its requirements. Certainly, we all must feel represented in the key decision-making bodies of the Organization, and Swaziland therefore supports the proposals aimed, in the first place, at making the Security Council a more credible body by introducing wider representation among the permanent members. The principle of full representation within the United Nations is an extension of the founding principle of universality — to ensure, as much as possible, that all peoples of the world feel that they are represented in the one truly global Organization with the resources and influence to effect developments for the good of mankind. The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to have a strong and happy partnership with a country whose people believe that they are denied the opportunity to make their contribution to the rest of the world through the agencies of our Organization, and who maintain that they are excluded from the processes of international decision-making, to which they have a right to contribute. The Republic of China and its 21 million people have shown themselves to be committed to global peace and development, and ready to share with the rest of the world their knowledge, expertise and resources. In the fiftieth year of the existence of United Nations, and as we celebrate the historic signing of our Charter, it is surely fitting that we live up to our founders’ belief that the credibility of our Organization is dependent on the principle that all mankind is represented here. The declaration by a people that it believes itself to be denied representation is surely incentive enough for us to at least consider the case, whatever the outcome. The Republic of China, as one of the original signatories, believes that its appeal deserves to be heard. Swaziland therefore encourages the growing support for the establishment of an ad hoc committee to look into the issue of the renewal of membership of the United Nations for the Republic of China. The Kingdom of Swaziland has welcomed the far- sighted Agenda for Development, including the Africa- specific development initiatives for the 1990s, which contain the Organization’s operational priorities in the area of economic and social development, and aims to ensure sustainable growth for our economies. As we approach the mid-term review of the continent’s development plan, it is clear that we still lag far behind the other regions of the world in terms of achieving our development targets. Swaziland has been conscientious in attending the recent round of important United Nations summit conferences, which have focused on key social and economic development issues, including those on the 3 environment and development, on population and development, and this year’s social summit and Conference on Women. In each case, we have committed ourselves to the plans of action and are doing our best to implement the recommendations. A side effect of these meetings was that once again they highlighted our continent’s limitations. While the countries of Africa recognize our responsibilities to our own people, it is clear that our resources, technical knowledge and all-round expertise do not yet allow us to progress as fast as we would like. Undoubtedly, we will continue to require the support and understanding of the developed world if we are ever to rid ourselves of dependency on outside assistance, and, certainly, the United Nations has a major role to play in the process. The Kingdom of Swaziland has not been standing still in its own efforts to promote economic measures aimed at improving the living standards of its people. As is our custom, we have consulted directly with the entire nation to give the Swazi people themselves the opportunity to determine priorities for their economic and social development. The focus of our people’s concerns has been on much of what has been discussed at the recent United Nations conferences, and there is a direct parallel between the recommendations of the various Summits and those of our own consultation process. The value of this national exercise, in a United Nations context, is that it confirms support for what the Organization is doing at the level of those who matter most. Included among the issues raised in our national economic exercise were concern over the continuing drought and the realization that any plans we may have to improve our economic performance will still depend to a large extent on the inconsistencies of nature, unless we can offset the effects of poor rainfall by large capital projects to harness our water resources. An increase in cross-border illegal traffic in drugs and weapons continues to present a threat to our socio-economic stability, and as a sign of our commitment to overcome this growing danger the Kingdom of Swaziland and the Republic of South Africa recently signed a joint agreement to work together to combat cross-border crime. It is clear, however, that what is needed is international support to overcome what is certainly an international menace. The Swazi nation has confirmed the importance of increasing environmental awareness amongst our people, and the need to protect our natural heritage is recognized as a priority target. Land usage and agricultural diversification are important elements of this vital issue and we will need to acquire technical support to achieve improvement. Another key element of the nation’s concerns is centred on the role of women. Swazi women are identified as the backbone of the economy and it has been recommended that steps be taken to bring the legal rights of our women onto an equal basis with those of our men. Once more, the traditions and culture of our Kingdom have been reaffirmed as the main contributing cause of our stability and peace. Our national identity is important to us — it is, after all, what makes us unique — and Swaziland feels strongly that there should be recognition of and respect for each country’s distinctiveness in the way we each approach an issue and in the solutions we find to our own problems. As the world’s leaders gather here later this month to reaffirm our collective commitment to our founding Charter, let our fiftieth anniversary celebration also signal a new start for our Organization, a new beginning in which we will address the challenges to global security and development with a fresh sense of equal responsibility and duty and with new structures in place to achieve our united goal of improving the world we live in for all our peoples. The Kingdom of Swaziland confirms its own commitment to our founding Charter and declares its pride in the Organization in which the hopes of all mankind are placed. May God bless these proceedings with the success they deserve. It gives me great pleasure to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly on this momentous occasion of its fiftieth anniversary. Aware of the strenuous task that this Assembly has to perform, I remain confident of his competence to guide our work to satisfactory conclusions. It is also my privilege and honour to pay a tribute to the President of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire for the skilful manner in which he discharged the onerous responsibilities of the presidency of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I would also like to convey my country’s deep appreciation to the Secretary-General for displaying exceptional capability and a capacity to meet the daunting challenges and obstacles to his noble mission, and for his ever-readiness to work selflessly not only to retain the credibility and the validity of the United Nations but also to make this Organization stand tall in this rapidly changing world. My delegation sincerely wishes him every success in his unenviable task. The United Nations is celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of its founding, and many of us are advocating the need for reforming and restructuring this Organization. There is no doubt in our minds that the world is passing through an era of dramatic change affecting the map of international political relations and changing the balance of economic and trade relations, a reason which would naturally justify this call. But we should not ignore the fact that this Organization has succeeded in preventing a third world war — and the greatest fear 50 years ago was that such a war would occur. Furthermore, this Organization has effectively freed the world from the evils of colonialism and racial discrimination. It has also helped in establishing a regime of international cooperation based on the principles of equality and respect for the rule of law. If not for the noble role that the United Nations has played in many 5 areas of human activity, we would not have harvested the progress we enjoy today in the fields of disarmament, containment of the proliferation of nuclear weapons, promotion of human rights, and many important issues such as those related to environment and the welfare of refugees, children, youth and women. Of course there have been failures and set-backs. Many a time we have come across situations which have made us suspect the credibility of the Organization and the effectiveness of its decisions. But the fact remains that the United Nations has served and is continuing to serve humanity — individuals, peoples and the world community as a whole — with profound dignity and with a sense of purpose, guided by the noble principles of the Charter. And if we are talking about reforming or restructuring this Organization, then our concentration should first be focused on the realities of today in order to transpose our collective efforts to strengthen international cooperation for the achievement of our common objectives in full accord with the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Moreover, the reforming and restructuring not only should be focused on the concept of international peace and security, but also should be extended to include the entire spectrum of the economic and social development of the human race. In other words, the effect of reform should reach all areas of United Nations activities, including those involving the maintenance of international peace and security, the achievement of equitable economic development, the revitalization of the international economic order, the protection of the global environment, the combating of terrorism and drug trafficking, the protection of human rights, and the promotion of democratic values and legal order within and among nations. I would like to take this opportunity to extend my compliments to the specialized agencies of the United Nations for their efforts to achieve economic growth and sustainable development. The Rio Conference on Environment, the Population Conference in Cairo, the Copenhagen Social Summit, and the recently concluded World Conference on Women, in Beijing, have taken us a long way in this regard. However it is regrettable to note that, in spite of the encouraging signs, the overall picture of development is not optimistic. The global Official Development Assistance (ODA) today is at its lowest level in 21 years. As a least developed island State, my Government is of the view that there is an urgently felt need to reverse this situation radically. A first step will be for all industrialized countries to live up to the targets specified by the United Nations. If we work in the spirit of collective responsibility and match our efforts with the concerns of the real people in the real world, I am confident that success will be achieved. As far as the principal organs of the United Nations are concerned, Maldives believes that the General Assembly should continue to play its central role as the global council which has the competence and capacity for taking collective decisions and reaching consensus on important matters related to international peace and security, development, and international cooperation in general. Meanwhile, the role and functions of the Security Council should be strengthened and improved upon in a way consistent with the realities of the present time, which obviously are significantly different from the geopolitical conditions which prevailed 50 years ago. However, the Maldives is of the view that if a major restructuring exercise is to be carried out it should be a result-oriented one, which would strengthen the authority of the Council and increase its ability to implement its decisions rather than simply increasing the number of members of the Council on a selective basis. Even if we go along with the emerging consensus that the membership of the Council should be increased, my country strongly feels that careful consideration should be given in the process to ensuring that the Council remains a representative body for all regions and groups of nations, including, of course, the developing countries and small States that share the responsibilities for maintaining peace and security in the world with the more developed and the larger Member States of the United Nations. The main criteria should be, we believe, the capability of the Member States to fulfil their obligations and commitments towards the United Nations and its principles, and their respect for and adherence to international covenants. Fifty years ago membership of this Organization comprised only a few countries. They had the privilege of having a say in world affairs. They created this body to safeguard not only their own interests but also the interests of future generations of the entire world. The vast majority of Member States that are represented here today, including small States like my own country, Maldives, had been deprived of their 6 freedom in one form or other. It was the principles on which this Organization was founded that helped shape the events which eventually led to the restoration of the legitimate rights of deprived peoples on all continents across the globe. Now, ours is a community of nations that share the same values and depend on each other in achieving our common and individual interests. Among the Member States of the United Nations there is a large number of small States which are actively interacting with other Member States, not because they merely need the cooperation of the others for their survival and existence, but because they actually are inseparable parts of this large, interdependent world. What the United Nations is trying to do is to promote peace and justice, eliminate racial and religious prejudices and set up universal standards for aspects of our lives which affect our dignity as equal human beings. Small States are participating in this endeavour with the same conviction that the larger countries have. Therefore, it is more than reasonable that small States should be given the opportunity to play their role in decision-making and carrying forward the torch of our common mission. As I first mentioned, the reform of the United Nations must be comprehensive and should include the three main organs, the specialized agencies, and all aspects of the United Nations work and activities; a reform which would change the United Nations truly in to a “mission-oriented and results-oriented” Organization, to use the Secretary- General’s description. Therefore, my delegation feels that it is important to maintain effective coordination between the open-ended working groups which are already being established, and that we should, by all means, avoid producing a partial package of improvement. As the world anticipates seeing a revitalized United Nations, we should pause to review the current world situation. In this context, it is with great disappointment that we see that the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina remains as critical as ever. We are still witnessing the destruction of life and property, the violation of human rights and the defiance of Security Council resolutions by the Bosnian Serb leadership. The continuing deterioration of the situation has led many of us to doubt the applicability of the arms embargo. Many of us, furthermore, fear the consequences of partitioning Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of the ethnic composition of this independent State. We urge the international community to exert its influence on the Bosnian Serbs to accept the settlement now being proposed, which we are confident will result in a comprehensive and viable solution to this tragic episode. Meanwhile, we wish to express our deep appreciation to the countries that are contributing bravely to the efforts of the United Nations Protection Force under extremely difficult conditions. The situation in the Middle East seems to be improving through the peace process. The United Nations has continuously supported the rights of the Palestinian people to self-determination and independence. The recent accords, which enable the Palestinian people to exercise a degree of self-rule, are certainly a good basis for the realization of this objective. While appreciating the important role played by the sponsors of the recent initiative, we feel that the United Nations should continue to give support to the people of Palestine and to enhance, by all available means, the fulfilment of their legitimate rights. The recent events that took place in the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros demonstrate once again the vulnerability of small States to terrorism and the activities of mercenaries, which threaten not only the security and stability of small States, but also democratic institutions and the lawful existence of Governments. This time the victim was again a small island State in the Indian Ocean. But we have seen that acts of terrorism similar to this one — which took many innocent lives — are occurring rather frequently in many parts of the world. Recalling General Assembly resolution 49/31, on the Protection and Security of Small States, my Government calls upon the international community to take all necessary steps to prevent mercenaries from carrying out their criminal acts. Giant steps have been taken towards universal disarmament. During the Conference earlier this year at which the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) was discussed Maldives supported the Treaty’s indefinite extension, with the firm conviction that it plays a central role in containing the danger of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Treaties have been concluded on chemical and other weapons of mass destruction. It is our fervent hope that the comprehensive test-ban treaty will be signed before the end of 1996. In the meantime, it is most important at this juncture that all States refrain from testing nuclear devices, and those which aspire to achieving nuclear-weapon capabilities should refrain from developing them. Instead, efforts must be made to 7 dismantle all existing nuclear weapons and free the world from this dreadful menace. Further, the countries of each region should agree to establish nuclear-weapon-free zones, thus striving collectively towards a nuclear-weapon-free world. Furthermore, my Government believes that the course of universal disarmament will translate into an increase in available resources that can be used for urgently needed humanitarian and social development needs. As mankind awaits the dawn of the twenty-first century with great expectations for peace and justice and for the emergence of a United Nations that will carry forward the noble mission for which it was created, we, the Government and the people of the Maldives, renew our commitment to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and pledge that we will do whatever is possible, in cooperation with other Member States, to uphold these principles and work towards a better future. My delegation wishes to extend its felicitations to all States Members of this Organization on this occasion of its fiftieth anniversary and to congratulate this world body on its tremendous achievements. The General Assembly’s choice of Mr. Freitas do Amaral to serve as President at this fiftieth session is a fitting tribute to his eminent qualities and to the role his country, Portugal, has always played in international relations. I would like to congratulate him on behalf of my delegation and assure him of our cooperation. We are grateful to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for the skilful way in which he reflected and conveyed our concerns throughout his mandate. I would like to reaffirm the profound gratitude of the Government of Congo to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the concern he showed to find a settlement to the political crisis that overwhelmed my country in the first two years after the democratic election of Professor Pascal Lissouba as President of the Republic. Despite the fact that the United Nations inherited the difficulties of what were often troubled times and despite its often controversial role, it remains the repository of hope for the peoples of the world. The fiftieth anniversary is a fitting time to look at what the Organization’s experience has taught us so that we may be able to establish a more confident and optimistic idea of how the Organization and mankind as a whole will move into the third millennium. This session with its inherent symbolism, coming as it does at an exceptional period in the development of international relations, places us squarely between the fading dogmas that for a long time seemed to inspire the perfect system of management and human development, and the universal desire of the most destitute people for greater political freedom, development and the assertion of their moral and cultural identity. As countries once subjected to ideological, political and economic domination move steadfastly forward, the United Nations remains, as ever, the ideal vehicle for preventing upheaval from shattering world peace. In other words, faced with the new world situation, this celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization can be analysed only in terms of a break with the past and a time to take stock of new realities in the face of the overriding need to establish new machinery to govern the international community. The various scenes rightly described for us from this rostrum undoubtedly show the world as it is and as we would like it to be. I, therefore, endorse the concerns and proposals voiced here, particularly, as regards the restructuring of the United Nations system, the Agenda for Development. There are so many seemingly self- evident issues that will, I am sure, enjoy the consensual support of all delegations, as happened at the recent United Nations conferences, which have given our States 25 a platform from which to deal with the major problems of the world. From Rio to Beijing, via Vienna, Cairo and Copenhagen, we have established priorities and made commitments that we hope will be translated into action. As the Secretary-General of the United Nations rightly noted in his report “An Agenda for Development”, peace is the foundation for development. The persistence of hotbeds of tension in certain parts of the world is not conducive to the emergence of new prosperous nations. Quite the contrary, in the absence of peace, these hotbeds of tension thwart prospects for development more and more every day. In this context, we should encourage the peoples of Angola and Liberia to continue along the difficult path to national reconciliation after the several years of fratricidal civil war they have endured. We must be gratified by the strengthening of the peace process in the Middle East through the Israeli-Palestinian agreement of 28 September 1995. We should, finally, hail the recent developments in the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina marked by the efforts of the parties to the conflict to seek ways and means to achieve peace. Unfortunately, while expressing our satisfaction at the restoration of the democratic regime following the coup d’état in Sao Tome, thanks to international condemnation, we must denounce from this lofty rostrum, any seizure of power by armed force as has just happened once again in the Comoros. Finally, we would like to express our great concern at the instability and insecurity that persist in Africa, particularly in the countries of the Great Lakes. The situation in that part of the African continent is a human tragedy. There, as elsewhere in Africa where violence is rampant, ethnic hatred and intolerance have caused massive flows of refugees to flee to neighbouring countries. This is what has happened in Zaire, a fraternal and neighbouring country which, from this rostrum, appealed for solidarity from the international community in helping it to overcome the consequences of this tragedy with respect for human dignity. We express the hope that this appeal will be heeded by the entire international community. In the face of all this, it is not difficult to understand why Congo cannot fail to support the idea of holding a conference on peace and stability in that region. We wish to state that we are ready, as are other members of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, to go along with this initiative in accordance with the Brazzaville Declaration on cooperation for peace and security in Central Africa. This Declaration, adopted after the Committee’s seventh meeting on 1 September 1995, is truly a profession of faith, in which States reaffirm their determination to work towards the establishment of confidence, peace and security in the Central African region. The valuable support which the United Nations Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has constantly given to our Committee has contributed to the fruitful results our States have achieved. Furthermore, this support guarantees success in achieving the objectives of establishing a collective security system in Central Africa. We thank him once again. Today, as in the past, the limits and sluggishness of most of the States of the African continent remain unchanged. They are due, on the one hand, to the overall trend towards acceptance of stereotypes and, on the other hand, to the fact that the requirements of modern times are out of kilter with the basic values underpinning our societies. Therefore, the democratization of institutional life, which we have embraced victoriously also seems to be a breeding-ground for long-contained contradictions. Here, they manifest themselves as conflict, even fratricidal wars. My own country, Congo, has not been spared these post- democratic upheavals and vagaries. Allow me to refrain from any dire descriptions which the images of the tragedy experienced by the people of Congo would conjure up. This is because I take great pride in expressing the hope of a new African political class, to which I belong, that it will be able to follow in the footsteps of great democratic nations and banish evil for ever. This new generation would like to pioneer new governance. By that I mean a new way of exercising power, unflawed by hereditary belligerent instincts, that takes account of the psychological and moral aspects of 26 our civilization and the specific features of the societal environment without jeopardizing the universal values that guarantee life with dignity. In truth, I would like to invite everyone here to share in the heartfelt cry of the citizen of a country which, having embarked on the road to the democratization of its institutions and thus the free choice by the people of their leaders, has turned its back on wanton and barbaric violence. This violence was dictated by the obsession with power on the part of those who lost the elections — power at all costs, absolute power. Other examples on the African continent support this grim picture. The mid-term review of the democratization process — a review that began in Africa three years ago — prompts me to put the following questions to the Assembly, in view of our societies’ crisis situation: With respect to multi-ethnic States, is it legitimate to assume that the mere codification of constitutional norms copied from older democracies is sufficient to transform feudal entities into democratic ones and so move on to a market economy, and to move from autocratic tribal rule to that of intellectual and political elites chosen for their keen sense of duty in the service of nations? Is it legitimate to believe and accept that simply subordinating our assistance to African countries to the need for their democratization will suffice to persuade their former leaders — who for two or three decades governed our States without opposition or any sharing of power — of the virtues of democracy? Such a change, in our view, can take place only as part of a lengthy process. Furthermore, an undoubted requirement is that Africa accede to democracy by conducting an in-depth analysis of its contemporary political history and then adopt rules for political governance that have consensus as a necessary dimension, rules that can ensure power-sharing by the major political groups and the necessary stability for democratic institutions. In this connection, my country’s experience has been a sort of litmus test. No solution could have been found without the personal and unwavering dedication of the President of our Republic, His Excellency Mr. Pascal Lissouba, whose wisdom and keen sense of dialogue served as a catalyst. On the basis of our own social values, traditions, realities and history, our Head of State, without underestimating the relevance of the principle that elections are necessary to democracy, has assumed the role of a real paterfamilias, gathering around him Congolese people of every persuasion. In this spirit, at the initiative of the President of the Republic, a Forum on the Culture of Peace, organized jointly by the Congolese Government and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), was held in November 1994 in Brazzaville. The decisions taken there have enabled us to make a fresh start. Two of them pertain to the reorganization of the police, with a view to better adapting it to its traditional task as a republican police force, and to the restoration of the power of the judiciary. Several months later, following political consultations, a broader Government that included the opposition was set up. The current power-sharing between those who represent institutional legitimacy by virtue of being elected and those who did not receive the popular vote attests to a consensual undertaking based on the idea of participatory democracy. This approach is rooted in the manner in which our village communities were long governed and reduces the sources of conflict that accession to power could have triggered. A democratization process that unfolds in this way has the necessary resources at its disposal to bear fruit, if there is peace. The quest for peace is therefore a crucial requirement for our States. The democratization of institutions will remain a pipe dream if there is no will, on the part either of the African political elites or of the international community, to approach the democratic process in Africa in a manner that takes into account both the quality of the political classes that governed from independence until the beginning of democratization and the need to restore peace where obstacles are placed in its path or it is directly threatened. In order to put the idea of participatory democracy into effect, the Congolese Government, once peace had been restored, began a national programme of administrative and economic decentralization in order to enable the various political forces to exercise political power at a more grass-roots level. Today, town, village and regional councils have been established that take part in the decentralized governance of various communities. Thus, decentralization is a prime example of one of the major steps in power-sharing. 27 But in the final analysis, in Congo as elsewhere in Africa — especially in Central Africa — peace remains fragile. It is still, to all intents and purposes, at the mercy of the political appetites of those who believe that, in the name of democracy and regardless of the people’s choice, they have the divine right to be in power and the obligation to oppose those who accede to it. This observation led me to ask the seventh ministerial meeting of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, which was held in Brazzaville from 28 August to 1 September 1995 and over which I had the honour of presiding, to think about the following point. Democracy, which we all wholeheartedly aspire to, will be doomed to failure if we do not take the wise decision to equip ourselves with not only the necessary intellectual means but also, and above all, the political will to reflect on the kind of government our countries should have in the world of today. This reflection must necessarily be based on history and on the moral and legal rules that have provided our various communities with peace, stability and respect for the rights of the individual and for property rights. Such reflection will be useful, I believe, if we are to spare our peoples the ordeal of fratricidal wars. Clearly, democracy cannot be a source of peace or take hold lastingly in our countries if accession to political power on the part of a group of persons is regarded by other members of the international community as the exercise of power by one ethnic group or a coalition of ethnic groups. Likewise, to exercise moderation and restraint is the moral duty of those who win elections and who wield power. This is a crucial requirement in order to give a feeling of security to those whose past political practices have left them convinced that they can be in power only if one or several members of their own ethnic group or of their region are also involved. This is the evil that has been eating away at Africa and at its path towards true democratization. In fact, a democratic regime is without any doubt the one that will enable our countries to promote the flourishing of their elites and to ensure their development and safety. However, as members will note, our collective aspiration to greater freedom and equality has at times borne the seeds of destruction. This is because the transplant that the surgeons of democracy thought they needed to perform automatically on Africa — without taking into account the possibility that certain of its elements might be rejected — has come up against our own social realities, which are characterized by the fact that for all time, and especially since independence, politics has been, and remains, the royal road to upward social mobility. In such an environment, the rotation of power — one of the basic rules of classic democratic regimes — is perceived as a way of marginalizing that part of the community that loses the political elections. The rule of the rotation of power, which is perceived and applied by the winners of elections as a means of removing from power those who have lost — which in older democracies is a normal occurrence — is viewed in our countries as a source of conflict, as my own country’s example shows. In such circumstances, should not the establishment of a democratic regime in our countries be understood, in the context of a consensual vision of governance, as a transitory stage towards a democracy that would include the classic concept of the rotation of power? It would seem wise today to tackle the democratic phenomenon by including in the rules and in the basic foundation of democracy a peacemaking dimension that, while stemming from our socio-political realities and our own world view, would fit into a global framework. The rotation of political power would, in this transitional stage, take on a new, less conflictual dimension, while remaining one of the elements of genuine democracy. Such an approach would confer greater legitimacy on those who are elected. The international community is therefore once again called upon to help Africa bring peace to itself and to provide itself with stable democratic regimes. This is the only way that Africa’s development can be achieved. May this historic session of the General Assembly be a decisive turning-point for new victories ushering in a better world and an Africa moving forward towards democracy and progress. The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m. 28 I should like first of all to congratulate the President of the General Assembly, Mr. Freitas do Amaral, on his election to that high position. To guide the proceedings of the most representative organ of the United Nations in its jubilee year is a great privilege for a politician and diplomat, as well as for the country that he represents. We hope that his vision of the future of the Organization, contained in his opening remarks, will find support among Member States. The delegation of Ukraine also expresses its gratitude to Mr. Amara Essy for successfully guiding the General Assembly at its last session. Many years of close cooperation have bonded me with Minister Essy, whom I highly respect for his diplomatic and human qualities. In the historical calendar there are dates that can never be forgotten. The year 1945 is one such memorable time. Recently, we all commemorated together the fiftieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War. The calendar of international life is for ever interwoven with the half-century history of the United Nations. In paying tribute to the founders of the United Nations, Ukraine among them, our delegation would like to note the leading role of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt — one of the initiators of the creation of the universal Organization and the author of its very name — the United Nations. We are confident that the United Nations can work out an appropriate way in which to pay respect to this outstanding person. During the past half century the United Nations, as no other international organization, has acquired credibility as a reliable instrument for maintaining peace, as a mediator and active participant in the peaceful settlement of conflicts, and as a champion of human rights. The United Nations has played a decisive role in the decolonization and self-determination of peoples. The United Nations has proved its viability, having experienced the difficult decades of the cold war, when the walls and the rostrum of its Headquarters often witnessed the struggle of two opposing blocs. Ukraine — whose institutions of statehood were developing along with the United Nations and were fully established after the proclamation of independence in 1991 — feels the considerable support of the United Nations as well. Witness the dramatic events of the past quarter of the twentieth century, the pinnacle of the philosophic triangle of “peace-development-democracy” is peace. And the most illustrative example of this is the tragic conflict in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. This conflict, by its very nature, is due to all possible reasons: militant separatism, ethnic confrontation, religious intolerance. The most dangerous thing is the fact that, in terms of its scale, developments and tragic consequences, this conflict has turned into a real threat to international peace and security. I think that for all of us, Members of the United Nations, the painful fact is that we are compelled again and again to return to this issue, even during the jubilee fiftieth session of the General Assembly. United Nations peace-keeping operations in this region have revealed both positive and negative aspects of international efforts. The Yugoslav example demonstrates, in general, that rethinking the role of the United Nations and adapting the role to current realities are proceeding very slowly. Sometimes it seems as if the Organization is continuing to live by the inertia of the old mentality, which does not allow it to use its potential effectively and makes it appeal to other organizations for help. Besides, we consider that most of the problems the United Nations is facing in the former Yugoslavia are rooted in the non- 12 observance of at least a number of the major established principles of peace-keeping. In particular, this may apply to the principle of impartiality. Thus, a review of the discussions in the Security Council and the activities of the Contact Group does not, unfortunately, give a sufficient basis for talking about real political impartiality in the positions of some of their members in regard to all parties to the post-Yugoslav conflict. As a result, international public opinion bases itself on a policy of dual standards and biased assessments and decisions, and this does not enhance the credibility of our Organization. It is universally recognized that success in the final settlement of any conflict depends on the will of the belligerents and their readiness to engage in a dialogue and international mediation. At the same time, the consent of the conflicting parties to facilitate United Nations peace- keeping efforts was not always given. The taking of peace- keepers hostage by parties to the conflict in the former Yugoslavia makes us think seriously of the need to establish a comprehensive mechanism for the use of force and to enhance the protection of United Nations peace- keeping personnel. In this connection, Ukraine, which initiated the elaboration of the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel, calls upon all countries to expedite the ratification of this document. At the same time, in spite of all the unprecedented difficulties and some miscalculations in conducting United Nations peace-keeping operations in the former Yugoslavia, we find it necessary to keep United Nations forces there. Accordingly, we should continue to seek means to bring about a peaceful settlement of the conflict. It seems that today everyone agrees that there is no alternative to a political settlement. We welcome efforts in that direction, particularly the recent intensification of relevant activities by the United States. We also believe that Russia can play a greater and constructive role in a peaceful settlement. For its part, Ukraine, as a major contributor to the United Nations Protection Force, is ready to continue its cooperation with the United Nations in this field. I would like to confirm that Kiev is ready, if necessary, to host a meeting of the leaders of the parties to the conflict with the participation of all the countries and international organizations concerned. The President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, has sent letters with appropriate proposals to the leaders of Serbia, Croatia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The process of settling the Yugoslav conflict could, in our opinion, be intensified by expanding the composition of the Contact Group and studying new approaches. As an example to follow, we note the international meeting on Bosnia held on 21 July in London, in which the delegation of Ukraine also took part. While highly appreciating the considerable personal contribution of Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to the philosophy of peace-keeping, we consider that new approaches in this field require further practical development, in particular the principle of utilizing the rapid reaction force, which has already been quite actively involved in the former Yugoslavia. The question of implementing the idea of establishing a United Nations stand-by force, in which Ukraine is ready to participate, is still outstanding. We consider preventive diplomacy, which has demonstrated its potential in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, to be one of the priority trends in the development of United Nations peace-keeping activities. In this context we are again proposing consideration of the establishment within the United Nations, and specifically within the Office of the Secretary-General, of a standing council of international mediators, whose membership would include internationally recognized and authoritative political figures. Economic sanctions continue to be an important instrument in United Nations conflict-settlement activities. In this field, we believe it is necessary to elaborate a comprehensive and detailed mechanism for the implementation of sanctions which would also take into consideration all their potential consequences, including the negative impact on third countries. In our opinion, it has now been demonstrated that the embargo regime against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is counterproductive and has not attained the main objective of promoting peaceful settlement of the conflict. Ukraine considers that, along with the process of further political settlement, the Security Council should lift economic sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which, in real terms, has already demonstrated its willingness to assist in the restoration of peace. At the same time, we proceed from the premise that mutual and simultaneous recognition of the States that emerged in the territory of the former Yugoslavia should be an important condition for the lifting of sanctions. The principle that no single State or regional organization can be granted the right to be the main 13 guarantor of peace and security in one region or another should continue to be a cornerstone of United Nations conflict-prevention and crisis-management activities. Among the international community’s undertakings in the past year we could list many important achievements which have become our common gains. Today, in Washington, the ceremony for the signing of the Israeli- Palestinian agreement is taking place, and we want to congratulate sincerely both parties and all those who contributed to this achievement. I would also like to dwell on one accomplishment which has significance for our country. The Conference on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) was undoubtedly the main event since the last session in the field of arms control and disarmament. It is symbolic that this Conference took place within these walls. Its decision on the indefinite extension of the Treaty is really a historic achievement. I do not think it would be going too far to say that Ukraine’s accession to the NPT as a non-nuclear weapon State, and our ratification of the START-1 Treaty and its entry into force played a substantive role in making this event a reality. Thus, Ukraine made its tangible contribution to the global cause — freeing mankind from the most dangerous weapons of mass destruction. The voluntary renunciation by the third largest nuclear State of this monster of the twentieth century is unprecedented. The NPT is undoubtedly a key treaty among all the existing treaties on arms control and disarmament, since it provides an opportunity to consistently coordinate policies in the field of nuclear disarmament, allowing non-nuclear States to conduct a dialogue as equals with nuclear States. At the same time, I would like to emphasize that in Ukraine’s opinion, in spite of the record-breaking number of NPT participants — 179 countries — we cannot regard a situation as stable when States that build their security on the possession of nuclear weapons and States that have never had or have renounced them exist alongside each other. In this connection, Ukraine attaches great importance to the negotiations on a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty. Unfortunately, the world community has not managed to mark the UN’s fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations by concluding this treaty, but we share the hopes that the relevant talks will be successfully completed no later than 1996. In this context the necessity for all countries to observe the moratorium on nuclear tests is of special importance. Recent nuclear tests have aroused justifiable concern in the world. Such actions are not conducive to enhancing the favourable international climate that emerged after the end of the cold war. The huge existing arsenals of conventional weapons and the danger they constitute for mankind put these weapons on a par with weapons of mass destruction and require the same close attention. As of today, Ukraine is fulfilling its obligations under the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe. To support the initiative advanced by the General Assembly, the Government of Ukraine has declared a moratorium on the export of anti- personnel mines. The course of the development of history has vividly demonstrated the interconnection and interdependence between the safeguarding of peace and security and economic and social development. In spite of significant achievements in this field, the present-day picture of the world is far from being ideal. Problems of unemployment, underdevelopment, poverty, social disintegration and isolation require urgent solutions. These problems are especially acute for economies in transition that are carrying out fundamental reforms. Ukraine, which inherited a heavy burden of problems from the former USSR, is undergoing a painful period of radical political and economic transformation. Having laid the basic foundations of a democratic political system and civil society over the past four years, Ukraine has entered a new stage of development. Last October, the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, proclaimed a new economic policy based on the implementation of fundamental economic reform. Now, our main efforts are aimed at the further strengthening of democratic foundations, the creation of a socially oriented market economy, and the implementation of an open, predictable and consistent foreign policy. The reform of the State system of division of power is continuing. In contrast to most post-Soviet countries, we managed, without violent confrontation, to find a way out of the constitutional impasse. The important stage is ahead, namely the final drafting and the adoption of a new Constitution of Ukraine. A diversified system of external economic relations is being gradually established. The process of integrating the national economy into the world economic space is being intensified. At the same time, the Ukrainian economy continues to suffer from a crisis phenomenon. Having charted a course toward market reform and its rapid implementation, Ukraine must seek its own national 14 model of market transformation. Today the establishment of an effective system of social protection is the Government’s principal and most topical task. The most important priority for President Kuchma and the Government of Ukraine continues to be the preservation of civil peace and inter-ethnic harmony in the country. In its four years of independence, Ukraine has managed to settle confrontational situations by peaceful political means. Ukraine’s achievements in the field of securing the rights of national minorities are especially evident against the background of the numerous conflicts that unfortunately continue to be a reality in the territory of the former Soviet Union. Ukraine’s national legislation in this sphere has earned it high international marks, specifically from such authoritative organizations as the Council of Europe, of which Ukraine hopes to become a member this year. But, at the same time, we have problems in this sphere, particularly with regard to repatriating the deported Crimean Tatar people and representatives of other nationalities. The Government of Ukraine has developed a large- scale national programme aimed at safeguarding the rights of national minorities and indigenous peoples and has established a fund for the deported peoples of Crimea. But for Ukraine, which faces conditions of economic crisis and a complicated financial situation and lacks the necessary infrastructure, services and mechanisms, the task of accommodating the hundreds of thousands of repatriated persons appears too complicated. Solving these problems requires a complex approach: the mobilization and consolidation of efforts at the national, regional and broader international levels. In its international activities, Ukraine proceeds from the premise that stable development is a guarantor of lasting peace. At present, when economic reforms in Ukraine are gaining momentum, we are especially interested in the widening of the activities of the United Nations and of its specialized agencies in the social and economic fields, aimed at establishing conditions for the integration of the Ukrainian economy and other economies in transition into the world economic space. The United Nations is an important instrument for promoting this process, and we appreciate the fact that the Members of this Organization show a deep understanding of the problems of countries in transition, including Ukraine. We believe that creating internal preconditions for Ukraine’s steady and gradual development has an international dimension as well. Ukraine’s geo-political situation transforms its efforts to build an economically viable State into an important factor in promoting guaranteed peace, stability and security — including in the field of ecology — on the European continent. It was this deep understanding of global interdependence that dictated, in particular, the political decision of President Kuchma to decommission the Chernobyl nuclear-power plant by the year 2000. Next year marks the tenth anniversary of the Chernobyl catastrophe, which not only left deep scars on the lives of the present generation of Ukrainians, Belarussians and Russians, but also has a global perspective. We propose to declare 1996 the Year of the Commemoration of Chernobyl and to organize special activities under the auspices of the United Nations. On the eve of this tragic anniversary, I should like once again to emphasize that nuclear-safety problems and the decommissioning of malfunctioning and outdated industrial nuclear facilities are critical, and not only for Ukraine. We are convinced that the time has come for a practical solution to the entire series of issues related to the accident, especially in view of the long-term nature of its aftermath. The sooner we invest money in the solution of this problem, the sooner we will be able to overcome it, with fewer negative consequences for humanity. We expect that the international community’s support of Ukraine’s efforts will be directed not only at the decommissioning of the Chernobyl power plant but also at solving the whole cluster of associated economic, social and ecological problems. In particular, we would welcome wide international participation in establishing an international scientific-technological centre in Chernobyl. At the same time, I should like to emphasize that Ukraine retains a sense of realism with regard to the capacity of the United Nations to solve our national problems. We do not aim to compete with the less developed countries for the limited resources of the United Nations development system. We are ready and willing to cooperate with all interested partners, and we rely on the purposeful activity of the international community aimed at creating favourable conditions for expanding the access of Ukrainian exports to the world market. We expect that the World Trade Organization, which Ukraine is ready to join, will play an important role in the expansion and diversification of international trade and economic relations. 15 Recently the financial problems of the United Nations have had an acute political resonance. There can be only one conclusion: the existing financial system is incapable of guaranteeing the effective functioning of the Organization in the current situation and requires substantial reform. We fully understand that the financial crisis of the United Nations has been provoked not only by political and economic circumstances but also by the imperfect system of apportionment of expenses, which is based on outdated principles. Ukraine will actively support the adoption of progressive changes to the methods of determining the scale of assessments and the special scheme of expenses for financing United Nations peace-keeping operations, with the aim of reflecting the principle of capacity to pay. Ukraine’s full participation in United Nations activities is impeded by its excessive contribution and its existing debt for financing United Nations peace-keeping operations. The State, which for the benefit of the world community has taken political decisions to voluntarily renounce nuclear weapons and decommission the Chernobyl power plant, should be able to concentrate its resources primarily on the implementation of those decisions. Ukraine, whose economy is undergoing an extremely difficult transformation and which is also suffering economic losses in the billions as a result of its strict compliance with the sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, can by no means continue to be held hostage to the settlement of the financial problems of the United Nations. The world is changing. The cold-war confrontation between blocs, as well as bloc discipline, has become history. The interdependence of States at the regional and global levels is increasing. Given the nature of modern international problems, we should be ready to face the challenges of the new era. We need a strong and effective United Nations. Its renovation should encompass both the structure itself and the character of its activities, in accordance with the requirements of the new epoch. In our opinion, a number of measures should be taken to democratize the Security Council’s activity, in particular to increase the legitimacy of its decisions and the transparency of its work. On the whole, Ukraine supports the activity of the Open-ended Working Group on the reform of the Security Council and hopes that the interests of all regional groups, including, I should like to emphasize, the Group of Eastern European States, will be taken into consideration during the reform process. Ukraine also supports the proposals related to the improvement of the activities of the Economic and Social Council. It stands for a reduction of the staff and the enhancement of the efficiency of the activities of the Secretariat, and for a reduction in the number of items on the agenda of the General Assembly. In conclusion, I should like to paraphrase a point of common wisdom: when you criticize the reflection in the mirror, you are criticizing yourself. The United Nations needs renovation — so we need to renovate ourselves. This Organization will not become more effective and instrumental unless its Members show enough eagerness for practical efforts. I would not want this Assembly in the twenty-first century to listen again to wishful thinking that is not backed by our political will and readiness to work hard. Just last June we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the San Francisco Charter, which to this day still governs our Organization. On that occasion, all Member States were able to take stock of the road we have travelled in 50 years of endeavouring to transform our planet Earth into one enamoured of peace, freedom and justice. Not so long ago from this rostrum, through Mr. Ange-Félix Patassé, President of the Central African Republic, my country pondered the scope and significance of the important events that are continually shaking the world and touching the conscience of one and all. My country, at that time, looked forward to a new era of peace and security such as once existed in the Garden of Eden, and we welcomed the idea of fair and fruitful cooperation, especially for the benefit of the least developed countries such as the Central African Republic. But what do we see today? It is a tradition for the United Nations to meet in the General Assembly to reflect on the way in which it 16 intends to assume its responsibilities in guiding the fate of mankind, but there can be no doubt that this collective endeavour can only be pursued in the light of the objectives we have set — that is to say, international security and sustainable development. And so, this session, more than any other, is of special importance for my country, the Central African Republic, because our universal Organization will need to ask itself whether it has fully achieved its goals. I am therefore very pleased to convey to the Assembly the best wishes of His Excellency, the President of the Central African Republic, Ange-Félix Patassé, the Head of State, for complete success. Together with all of the Central African people, he places deep confidence and unshakable faith in the future of our Organization. I feel certain that the great personal abilities of Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral will enable us to look forward to the complete success of our work. To Mr. Amara Essy, the outgoing President, I wish to convey my sincere congratulations for the dynamism, competence and effectiveness with which he so brilliantly conducted the work of the last session of the General Assembly, thereby doing credit to all of Africa. Allow me also to express again my sincere congratulations to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the outstanding competence, constant dedication and unmatched efficiency with which he is directing the work of our Organization. Since the end of the cold war, all nations have rightly looked forward to an international environment that is more conducive to cooperation and dialogue than to confrontation as was the case in the past. The tireless efforts of the international community to achieve this have been most praiseworthy despite the difficulties encountered in some cases in achieving peace and security, which are indispensable in the economic, social and cultural development of nations. In this regard, we should therefore, once again, express thanks to the international community, which took part in the emergence of a true democracy in the Central African Republic, a democracy whose day-to-day practice is acknowledged beyond its own borders. Strengthened by that achievement, my country is practising a policy of preventive diplomacy and development and has just completed the first phase of this change, notably through the restoration of public confidence and establishing democratic institutions, re-establishing fiscal health and control, health measures, training and education and by the adoption and promulgation, on 14 January 1995, of a new and truly democratic constitution. The Constitution, which was adopted by an overwhelming majority, introduces a policy of decentralization, with its corollary of regionalization aimed at involving the population in the tasks of development and at mobilizing all local resources for the enhancement of the standard of living of the rural masses. The second phase of the programme pertains to other major challenges such as the regional development, the opening up of the country from its land-locked status both internally and externally; agriculture and livestock- breeding; the development of natural resources; and agricultural and forest management. All of these ambitious plans can be carried out only if there is a climate of confidence and peace in our subregion — Central Africa. My country has fully understood this and has pursued a policy of good- neighbourliness to bring about peace both within and outside the Central African Republic. Thus, we consistently contribute, through preventive diplomacy, to efforts to prevent international conflicts. A land-locked country whose present Government is burdened with a heavy and multifaceted legacy, the Central African Republic is constantly searching for logistical means to support the economic development efforts in order to promote an increase in production and strengthen the fight against poverty. That is why the future programmes of structural adjustment should necessarily include social dimensions because, as has been stated by our Prime Minister, our Head of Government, the Central African Republic cannot create new social outcasts, new disadvantaged classes resulting from these structural reforms, which are often very restrictive. At a time when the efforts of the international community are being speeded up in order to relax tensions in the world, it is more specifically in the low- income and poor countries that we are increasingly seeing armed conflicts producing massive destruction. Witness the case of Somalia where, after the withdrawal of the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM), the acute problem of repatriating and resettling some 500,000 refugees and 400,000 displaced persons calls for the efforts of all of the international community. 17 Witness also the case of Burundi where the situation is of concern to my Government, which constantly encourages that neighbouring Government to secure the peace. However, my delegation commends the Joint Declaration of Peace signed between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, which, I am sure, will make it possible to reduce the tension and the threat to security in Burundi, where problems of humanitarian assistance to refugees are becoming a source of constant concern to all of the international community. In Rwanda, the machinery of the Organization of African Unity for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts will become fully operative with a view to bringing to an end the many sufferings of the people of Rwanda. On the one hand, my delegation encourages a return to normal democratic life in that kindred nation and on the other the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR) and the international community as a whole are urged to become even more concerned with the question of security and with the questions of refugees and displaced persons. Along this line of thinking, my delegation highly appreciates the farsightedness of Angola’s President, Eduardo dos Santos, and of his brother, Mr. Jonas Savimbi of UNITA, who, thanks to the commendable mediation of President El Hadj Omar Bongo of Gabon, agreed definitively to conclude peace through the Franceville agreement. My delegation is concerned at the situation in Sierra Leone, where war has been raging for four years, with great loss of life and property. However, we welcome the positive turn of events in Liberia, where all of the armed factions have understood the need to lay down their weapons and to sit down around the table to negotiate a peace — for this war, which has lasted all too long, will have known no victors and no vanquished. The Central African Republic welcomes the fact that our Organization has been able to affect the course of some events that were major sources of concern to the international community. Despite the many situations of tension that are sometimes difficult to control, we must welcome the fact that in the two years preceding this fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations we have witnessed Africa’s complete political liberation, the end of apartheid and the gradual introduction of democracy, notwithstanding isolated setbacks from time to time. We would cite in particular the Middle East, where significant progress has been achieved in the peace process in the region and where real, praiseworthy efforts are being made daily by the parties concerned, despite occasional difficulties encountered in implementing the commitments that have been entered into. This gives me an opportunity to congratulate the peoples of Israel and Palestine on their persistent efforts, which were crowned with success by the signature, on 29 September at Washington, of agreements pertaining to the second phase of that peace process. Congratulations should also be extended in respect of Chechnya, where the Peace Agreement recently concluded between the parties will contribute to consolidating a true and lasting peace in the region. With regard to the situation in Kashmir, we call upon our friends in India and Pakistan to come to an understanding and work out a negotiated solution to the problem, in the name of justice. Turning to the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Central African Government hails the praiseworthy efforts of France and the United States to calm troubled waters. The international community too should exert every effort to restore peace and security to Bosnia and Herzegovina, where ethnic, nationalistic or religious tendencies pose a dangerous threat to the tranquillity and stability of that part of Europe. No one is immune to these ancient sources of conflict, and the Central African Republic sympathizes with the countries and peoples enduring such tragic trials. In a few days the United Nations will celebrate its fiftieth anniversary, without having brought into being the long-sought new world economic order. The countries of the North continue to be powerful while those of the South continue to mark time with an official development assistance that has declined from 0.38 per cent in 1980 to 0.33 per cent in 1993. Some donors are no longer meeting their commitments, so Africa continues to live through a time of poverty, natural disasters, migrations and all kinds of other misfortunes. My delegation therefore believes that trade must be urgently liberalized through a 18 substantial reduction in tariffs and other trade barriers, through the elimination of discriminatory treatment in international trade relations and by stimulating world economic growth and sustainable development in the interests of all countries, the developing countries in particular. Indeed, the entry into force on 1 January 1995 of the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organization could not have been more timely, for were it to be fully implemented it would solve a great many of the problems of the land-locked developing countries, the Central African Republic among them. And, as President Ange-Félix Patassé said here last year, “What we need to save the continent is a real Marshall Plan, because at the present time multilateral and bilateral assistance remain insufficient to promote sustained and lasting growth.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Plenary Meetings, 19th meeting, p. 5) My delegation is among those that would strongly urge the most powerful Member States to commit themselves to working towards the achievement of the goals set forth in the Charter in order to ensure that the world does not drift ineluctably towards chaos and disaster. Finally, with regard to the advancement of democracy, the efforts of the United Nations will never be sufficient so long as the Republic of China on Taiwan is not admitted as a Member of this prestigious institution. As His Excellency Mr. Ange-Félix Patassé, President of the Central African Republic, noted in his appeal last year, under the Charter of the United Nations there are no large nations and there are no small nations, for all must contribute to peace and universal progress towards a just, humane and democratic world. Democracy and respect for fundamental human rights have and will have no meaning so long as the hard-working population of the Republic of China on Taiwan is not represented here in the Assembly. In this connection it would be fitting to take into account the precedents that exist with regard to the parallel representation of States in the United Nations. We would recall the following words of the President of the General Assembly at the opening meeting of this fiftieth session of the Assembly on 19 September: “... the United Nations has ceased to be an intergovernmental organization with a limited membership and has become the only international organization that is universal. Efforts must be made to ensure that all States that are not yet Members should seek to be admitted in the near future. For the same reason, the most serious penalty imposed on a Member State should never be expulsion, but rather suspension, for the United Nations must, as a matter of principle, include all the world’s countries.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 1st meeting, p. 7) The Government of the Central African Republic also believes that dedication to international peace and security should prohibit our engaging in any form of intimidation or confrontation that can damage rapprochement among States or, especially, weaken security. This requires the highly desirable admission of the Republic of China to the United Nations. With regard to the restructuring of the Organization at the end of its half century of life, the Government of the Central African Republic is firmly convinced that the only remedy to the delays experienced in intervening in or contributing to the resolution of tensions or open conflicts is to be found in a decentralization of the system. That decentralization should begin with the democratic and equitable representation of Member States in the Security Council and at all levels. We regard this as the only approach capable of taking proper account of geopolitical and economic specificities. In any event, this session should provide an opportunity to draft a new organizational chart for the United Nations and to adapt the Organization’s structures and functions in the light of our stocktaking and relevant comments by Member States. For its part, the Central African Republic reserves the right to speak out in the debates in the Committees and during the ceremonies commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. Whatever the case, everything should contribute to make the twenty-first century the century of Africa. In conclusion, the Central African Republic firmly believes that only respect for and observance of the spirit and letter of the Charter of the United Nations will truly enable us to solve the problems that confront us as this century draws to a close. We hope that this session will 19 mark a new stage on the way to effective cooperation for progress and peace for the international community as a whole. It gives me special pleasure to congratulate Mr. Diogo Frietas do Amaral of Portugal on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. I take this opportunity to extend to him my best wishes for success in the deliberations of this important gathering, and I assure him of the full collaboration of the delegation of Albania. I also congratulate Mr. do Amaral’s predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, on the excellent way he conducted the work of the last session of the General Assembly. To the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, I wish to express my highest regard for his unfailing endeavours to provide the Organization with ever more effective leadership. My warmest greetings go to the Republic of Palau, the newest State Member of the United Nations. Since March 1992 — the time of the final break with the Communist regime — Albania has made tremendous progress in its democratic processes. The building up and strengthening of political pluralism, the rule of law, respect for human rights in general and for those of minorities in particular, as well as the transition from a centralized to a market economy, constitute the main directions in which Albanian society is moving. The country is sustainably engaged in speedy economic reform supported by a whole new set of laws, and the results of intensive transformation are very tangible. Certainly reform is not painless. In this regard, the Government is paying special and particular attention to improvement of the living conditions of some social groups that are more vulnerable to economic reform. I wish, on behalf of the Albanian Government, to avail myself of the occasion to express gratitude to the donor countries, the European Member States, the United States and the countries of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, as well as to international agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, for the valuable assistance provided to Albania. In its efforts to eliminate the consequences of fatal long isolation, Albania is convincingly engaged in an open policy and has firmly abided by one of the major objectives that the Government set out in its programme — the integration of the country into Europe, which implies the building of a Western-style society, adherence to its institutions and active participation in European life. Our growing cooperation with the European Union, which we hope will in due course lead to the opening of negotiations on and the conclusion of the Europe agreement, is a process that enjoys the backing of all political parties and all strata of the population. With a view to achieving full integration, we attach special importance to cooperation with the Euro-Atlantic structures, primarily the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Albania is the first country of the region to have formally requested membership of NATO, and it is engaged in active cooperation within the Partnership for Peace. In this spirit of close cooperation, Albania has offered action facilities to NATO, and it will continue to do so in the future, convinced that this will benefit peace and security in the Balkans. To this end, and desirous of demonstrating in a practical way its commitment to peace and security, Albania has set up its first Albanian military unit to participate in the peace-keeping and humanitarian 23 operations of the United Nations and will soon put this at the disposal of the Organization. The tragedy of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is suffering the consequences of Belgrade’s ambition to create a “Greater Serbia” — inspired by the philosophy of national chauvinism, the policy of “ethnic cleansing” and the forceful changing of borders — lies at the centre of the present-day Balkan crisis, concentrated in the former Yugoslavia. Identification of the causes and culprits of the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina now makes it easier for the Balkan States and the international community at large to make realistic assessments of the situation in all the territories of the former Yugoslavia and to seek adequate approaches for solution. It is a fact that the international community and its main actors have been present at all stages in dealing with the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, however, it has to be admitted that, despite the action taken so far, they have not always been consistent. For that reason, efficiency has for a long time left much to be desired. The many resolutions of the United Nations and of the International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia, the activities of the Contact Group, the projects offered and the plans suggested have not yet yielded the desired results. Nevertheless, we think that the United Nations peace force deserves special praise for the humanitarian assistance it has provided to the innocent civilian population. A special tribute should be paid to the soldiers, officers, diplomats and journalists who lost their lives in the line of duty. Following recent developments, it appears that the situation in the crisis areas is more balanced, politically and militarily, and that it offers real possibilities for solution. However, it is still very complex, and there is still the risk of a spill-over of the conflict to other areas — a widely held view. In the face of this situation, we appreciate the fact that, on the initiative of the United States of America, the international community is reviewing its stand on this conflict, including insistence on thorough implementation of Security Council resolutions adopted pursuant to Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. These provide for continuation of the sanctions against the Bosnian Serbs and Serbia and Montenegro, as well as the stepping up of diplomatic activity, backed by the use of NATO military intervention when necessary. The Republic of Albania is deeply concerned about the grave situation in Kosova. The Serbian military and police regime that has been installed in Kosova, with the elimination of the autonomy that this federal unit of the former Federal Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia enjoyed, is continuing widespread terror against the Albanian population. The brutality of the Serbian police is evident every day and in every part of Kosova. The apartheid policy and practices pursued by the Serbs against the Albanians have led to the compulsory exodus of hundreds of thousands of Albanians, mainly youngsters, to different countries of the world. Part of this systematic terror are the endless killings, the ransacking and the plotted political trials against the Albanians of Kosova. As if this extremely tense and eruptive situation were not enough, the Belgrade authorities are now sending to Kosova, as colonists, the Serb refugees from Croatia and Bosnia. This grave provocation, under the guise of humanism for Serb refugees, is in reality part of the old plan of the Belgrade authorities to carry out “ethnic cleansing” in Kosova, which is inhabited to the extent of 95 per cent by Albanians, and forcefully change its ethnic-demographic composition. The consequences of what Belgrade is doing to attain the “Greater Serbia” ambition are already common knowledge and have been internationally witnessed in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. We appeal to the international community and to concerned humanitarian organizations not to be duped by the intentions of Belgrade and not to assist it to settle the Serb refugees in Kosova — an activity that falls short of being a simple humanitarian action. We also call upon the international community not to ignore the extremely important issue of Kosova. The Belgrade authorities have clearly challenged General Assembly resolution 49/204, the resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights in Geneva and the decisions of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe on Kosova. If Serbia is not put under international pressure to refrain from its policy of confrontation in Kosova, it will not be long before another tragedy with unpredictable consequences explodes. The Kosova Albanian leaders have miraculously managed to avoid it so far through their peaceful resistance, but the question immediately arises: How long will they be able to do so? The Republic of Albania holds that the United Nations, the major Powers and NATO should anticipate and take adequate measures in order to prevent a conflict in Kosova: demilitarize its territory; protect human and 24 national rights of Albanians there; put an end to ethnic cleansing and Serb colonization; reopen the institutions of Kosova; create a climate of dialogue between Albanians and Serbs in Kosova, and between Pristina and Belgrade; open and continue dialogue in the presence of a third party. Albania is of the view, and insists, that the Kosova issue be included in the agenda for discussion and solution of the problem of the former Yugoslavia. In the meantime, the lifting of sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro should be subject to the strict condition that there should be a complete and lasting solution of the Kosova issue. There is more than one problem to tackle and solve in Kosova; they all need to be addressed properly and not overlooked. When we see today the progress in solving the constitutional status of the entities in Bosnia, which we hope will be just and equitable and will satisfy all parties, we have reason to hope and believe that the international community will proceed in the right direction to solve the question of Kosova as well. The world is right in thinking that, in so doing, we are respecting one of the fundamental principles of the Charter, especially the right of peoples to self-determination. The application of double standards will undoubtedly generate future conflicts. In order for the Balkans to be an area of peace, stability and prosperity, it is necessary to bring war to an end, to bring the perpetrators of the Bosnian tragedy before the Court and to punish them, to demilitarize over-armed States and areas, to reconstruct what was damaged by war, to settle the Kosova issue and to thaw the already frozen bilateral relations. Internal democratization of all States, the creation of the democratic space where Albanians live in the Balkans, as repeatedly stated by the President of the Republic, Sali Berisha, constitute a most positive response to any international initiative for peace and stability in the Balkans. Furthermore, transition to broad programmes of inter-Balkan and Euro-Balkan cooperation is also an absolute requirement for development and for full integration of the Balkans into developed and civilized Europe. In the coming December, Albania will celebrate the fortieth anniversary of its membership in the United Nations. Over all these years the Republic of Albania has demonstrated its commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter. While the region is living through a profound and complex crisis, Albania is testifying that it is a factor of peace and stability. It has never provoked conflicts or tensions between States and has repeatedly asserted its firm stand against the forceful alteration of internationally recognized borders. This is demonstrated first in its policy towards its neighbours. I am glad to declare that bilateral relations with Greece have improved following a period of tension last year. Dialogue and good will, which Albania has always favoured, have prevailed, and today the two countries are taking concrete steps in the direction of extending, deepening and speeding up cooperation in fields of mutual benefit. It is worth mentioning here that we are glad to see that the international community, in general, recognize the great improvement in the rights of the Greek minority in Albania in the last three years. The Albanian Government has consistently demonstrated its willingness to ensure full respect for human rights and fundamental freedom for all the citizens, including members of the Greek minority, and its commitment to do so. We have always emphasized that the Greek minority in Albania constitutes a bridge of friendship and we are glad that this is not our view alone. There is no political reason whatsoever that could hinder this since the realization of rights stems from our political will and from the very essence of Albanian society. As to the right of education in one’s mother tongue, in addition to the measures already taken by the Government to apply international standards and fulfil its international commitments, such as the Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action, the national legislation on education, in particular the law on private schools — which entered into force a few months ago — has resolved this question. Albania maintains good relations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and supports the full integration of this Republic into international institutions. However, we encourage it to take concrete steps to improve the situation of the Albanians there and to ensure full respect for their human and national rights, including the right to education in their mother tongue. This is all the more so because of our conviction that equality between citizens of any nationality leads to the integration of that country and that integration is to the benefit of all the citizens of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and of stability in the region. Albania does not hold a prejudiced view in its relations with Serbia and Montenegro, either. However, it should be said that their improvement is dependent on the renunciation of violence against and suppression of the 25 Albanians in Kosova. Though Italy is across the sea, my country has considered, and considers, Italy a neighbouring country of great importance for bilateral relations and for the developments in the Balkans and the Mediterranean. Our relations with this country are built on an ancient tradition and are characterized by very positive developments in all fields. Albania attaches great importance to the work with a view to the reform of the Security Council. Albania is the only country from the Eastern European Group, except the newly created countries in the region, that has never served in the Security Council in its course of 40 years’ membership in the Organization. We believe that the Member States, by giving Albania the first chance to sit in the Security Council, will offer encouragement and support to the good will of the small States for active participation in multilateral cooperation in the service of international peace and security, and will show that it will not take long for our fruitful discussions on the reform of the Security Council to be implemented. I would like to assure you that the election of Albania to the Security Council will be a contribution to peace and security in the troubled region of the Balkans as well. In conclusion, I would like to express Albania’s support for the United Nations, its desire to strengthen the Organization and its role in safeguarding international peace and promoting and supporting democracy, development and well-being. It is the honour of the delegation of Costa Rica to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this historic session marking the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. We are extremely pleased that a distinguished son of Portugal, a country so closely linked to Latin 4 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting America by history and culture, has been chosen for this high position. We offer you our full cooperation in the performance of your important duties. We wish to express to Member States the gratitude of the Government and the people of Costa Rica for having elected our country to one of the vice-presidencies of the Assembly. That election is a significant honour. It also gives me pleasure to join previous speakers in thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for the splendid way in which he performed his duties as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. Costa Rica wishes to convey its recognition of the indefatigable work carried out by the Secretary-General and by other Secretariat officials towards peace and security. The devoted efforts of the Secretary-General to champion a safer, fairer, more peaceful and more humane world for future generations will be a great legacy for mankind, along with his determination to transform and modernize the Organization and carry it into the future. Fifty years ago, Mr. Julio Acosta, former President of the Republic and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Costa Rica, who headed our country’s delegation to the United Nations Conference on International Organization at San Francisco, said that the future of the world lay with the Charter of the United Nations, which was the most important human document of the last 1,000 years. That, indeed, is what it has been, at least over the last 50 years, despite the many difficulties, the many frustrations, the many conflicts. The Charter of the United Nations has set a new course for mankind and has provided the international community with an ethical code that grows stronger every day. Costa Rica, a founding Member of the Organization, is firmly committed to the United Nations, in accordance with its long-standing regime of democracy and respect for human rights. The values and principles which give shape to this Organization were an integral part of Costa Rican life many years before the San Francisco Conference. With the abolition of the armed forces in 1948, our country renewed its faith in law and its hope that reason, not force, would govern relations among human beings. With that decision of President José Figueres, Costa Rica addressed the world and declared peace. With the same thought in mind, the Government of Costa Rica has promoted many United Nations initiatives in support of peace and human rights, including the establishment of the University for Peace, the declaration of the International Year of Peace and the creation of the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. All these ideas are aimed at realizing mankind’s dream of sustainable peace. In the spirit of commemorating in deeds the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, Costa Rica proposed a World Week of Peace, to begin on 24 October this year. This initiative, sponsored by a large number of countries and unanimously adopted by the General Assembly on 12 July 1995, would silence weapons everywhere in the world for at least a week, so that in the future sustainable peace might prevail over destructive war. Costa Rica hopes that during the Week all Member States will carry out pro-peace activities and reflect on how important it is for mankind to learn to live under the sign of concord. My delegation is aware of the practical constraints that stand in the way of the World Week of Peace achieving its goals on the desired scale. However, it is our belief that any move that could be taken this week to promote dialogue, coexistence and harmony between nations would be a valuable contribution to the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and to the building of the future. The effort will have been worthwhile if even one human being — a child, a woman or a man — is saved from death as a result of this initiative. There are no conflicts without solutions. All ground is fertile for reconciliation. How many tears were shed in South Africa, how much blood was spilled in the Middle East! However, animosity has gradually disappeared and harmony is beginning to flourish. Multicultural democracy is giving a new and peaceful direction to the history of South Africa. With the recent agreement on the West Bank, Israelis and Palestinians continue to show that peace is always possible. If there is a will for peace, peace can be achieved. In that context, the United Nations must continue to be the forum where all the peoples of the world have fair representation. No country should be excluded from becoming a Member of this Organization. For many years, the world prevented a general conflagration by resorting to containment. Today, although the East-West confrontation has dissipated, and preventive diplomacy is making headway, there are still latent seeds of world conflict, concentrated in the sub- human conditions in which a large portion of the world’s population live, and evident also in the massive decay of the environment. The urgent need to solve senseless conflicts such as the one in the former Yugoslavia and to end the violence 5 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting besetting so many places in the world should not make us lose sight of the fact that true peace involves a series of elements much more significant than the mere absence of war. As has been recently stated by His Holiness Pope John Paul II, who offered to the world such a beautiful message of hope and goodwill today from this Hall, “... peace is not limited to the silence of cannons. It is nourished with justice and freedom. It needs the atmosphere of a spirit rich in some fundamental elements, such as the sense of God, the taste for beauty, the love of truth, the choice of solidarity, and the capacity for tenderness and the courage to forgive.” The fiftieth anniversary of the Organization is an occasion for reflection, but we should also use it to meditate on the challenge of our times: to achieve sustainable development. In Central America we have committed ourselves firmly to a comprehensive peace process and democratization, in a regional effort to build peace and democracy where these are needed, and to strengthen them where they already exist. This journey is culminating today in the encouraging advances experienced in the dialogue in Guatemala. Costa Rica is optimistic about the efforts to find a lasting peaceful solution to the problem involving that brotherly country. We give our full support to the negotiation process being developed to that end under the auspices of the United Nations. Central Americans, who for many years have successfully advocated this process of peace and democratization, are today also committed to an alliance to generate in our region a new model of development, combining freedom and the well-being of the vast majority, with respect for the natural environment. This Central American commitment to the region itself and to the international community is being implemented through various actions and development projects. We hope that the international community as a whole will understand and appreciate Central America’s effort, and will lend it its support, as several friendly nations have already done. As an integral part of the process of the consolidation of peace and the building of sustainable development, respect for human rights is no longer just a legal and moral obligation of Governments; it has become an essential condition for harmonious life in every society. However, we cannot disregard the fact that many situations in which these rights are still ignored or violated persist, making the task of the relevant international bodies doubly important. It is not legal to violate human rights, but it is not right to sit idly by, using the pretext of respect for sovereignty, which is only hypothetical respect and borders on complicity. For Costa Rica, a party to the International Covenants on this matter and the headquarters of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, it is essential that the United Nations assume a more dynamic and energetic role in the protection of fundamental human rights and require from Member States strict compliance with their responsibilities in this area. For this purpose, protective entities, in particular the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), should be provided with more resources. We must also strengthen measures against States which ignore the recommendations of those bodies, or prevent them from performing their duties. We are also concerned that overcoming the balance of terror has not put an end to the arms race, and that is a matter of concern to us. We cannot understand why at this time in history there are still countries which, with surprising levity, destroy the environment and endanger their neighbours with nuclear tests. This is a flagrant violation of the commitments that marked the conclusion of the negotiations to extend the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and has a negative effect on the tasks related to the drafting of the comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty. Costa Rica has never possessed, and does not want to possess, nuclear or chemical weapons, and strongly urges participant States to speedily conclude negotiations on this treaty and to ensure that it takes effect as soon as possible. However, the danger of a nuclear holocaust should not make us unconcerned about the problems caused by conventional weapons, the traffic in which has a tragic impact on the third world and keeps a series of very harmful conflicts alive. Many Governments of underdeveloped countries continue to waste resources on weapons, resources needed desperately by their own people for basic necessities. The democracies of the industrialized world continue providing those weapons in a business which undoubtedly, on a short-term basis, is financially more profitable than cooperation for development. In 1994, relying on an initiative of the Government of Romania, a group of 25 countries proposed to the General Assembly the adoption of a voluntary, global and non-discriminatory code of conduct for the international 6 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting transfer of weapons. My delegation believes that this subject must be reactivated without delay and also that concrete action must be taken to make the Register of Conventional Weapons within the United Nations effective. The reduction of military spending has an immediate repercussion on budget allocations for the promotion of development and well-being. In Costa Rica, we learned this lesson almost half a century ago and we have had no reason since then to regret our decision. However, we also believe that providing special treatment, such as cooperation for development and the transfer of technology for peaceful purposes, to countries which reduce military spending would be a great incentive, as has been suggested by Oscar Arias, a former President of Costa Rica and a Nobel Peace Prize Laureate in 1987. In the spirit of building a new world, a world better than the one that existed 50 years ago, the international community has the duty to promote changes in the area of international economic relations. In recent years, there have been significant reformulations in international trade plans. A World Trade Organization has been created to replace the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and there has been a proliferation of regional free-trade plans. However, this has not dissipated the worrying trends towards protectionism that are increasingly being developed by industrialized nations. While the underdeveloped countries are applying programmes with a view to the adjustment and the opening up of trade, the richest countries are imposing burdensome limitations on trade. My delegation considers that the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), to be held in South Africa in 1996, must become a fundamental forum for the discussion of these problems. Since the first meeting of UNCTAD, held in Geneva in 1964, 77 countries of the Third World have joined in demanding more equitable conditions in regard to world trade. The fight for this new international economic order has today become a priority because, even though the military-political blocs which divided the world in the recent past have now disappeared, the gap between North and South is becoming ever greater. In the circumstances, we consider that the presidency of the Group of 77 and China, to which Costa Rica was appointed a few days ago, is not only a great honour but also an important responsibility. Costa Rica is deeply grateful for the support it received in achieving this significant position and we hope that in the performance of our duties we will make a constructive contribution towards the launching of the Group of 77 into the new international realities. For some years now, it has been suggested that there is a need to redesign the United Nations in order to give the Organization a new look in keeping with a different world situation. Costa Rica, on various occasions, has expressed its support for initiatives in this area, including the suggestion that Germany and Japan should become permanent members of the Security Council, and that we should guarantee permanent representation for all regions in that body. Today, on the occasion of the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary, we wish to reiterate Costa Rica’s firm commitment to the renovation of the United Nations. It is urgent to take steps along the lines pointed out by the Secretary-General in his “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development”, and it is important that the international system should comply with the resolutions of the General Assembly and the mandates of the Security Council. It is also essential to provide a follow-up to, and implement, the commitments made at the Rio, Copenhagen and Beijing conferences. In celebrating the fifty years of its existence, the United Nations is still young. It remains young because its spirit is still generously irrigated with idealism and with faith in mankind. The Organization remains young because it still believes that the human being has a greater capacity to convince than to shoot, to love than to hate, to build than to destroy, to procreate than to kill. Let us preserve this essence of youth in our Organization. In 1995, as in 1945, in spite of disappointments, bitter days and years, the United Nations represents the hope that there will be a future for our children. The United Nations is the most important demonstration that there will be a future because the words uttered in this Hall many years ago by the then Foreign Minister and later President of Costa Rica, Daniel Oduber, are still valid. He said that the United Nations had revealed itself to be the only entity capable of minimizing the sufferings which, alternating with the satisfaction of being alive and of performing our duties, were the common lot of mankind. I would conclude with the inspiring words uttered by His Holiness Pope John Paul II in this Hall this morning, “The answer to the fear which darkens human existence at the end of the century is the common effort to build a civilization of love, founded on the universal values of peace, solidarity, justice and 7 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting liberty.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 20th meeting, p. 6). Allow me first, on behalf of the Romanian delegation, to congratulate Ambassador Freitas do Amaral of Portugal most sincerely, and all the members of the Bureau of the General Assembly, on their elections. Romania is fully committed to the ideals and goals of the United Nations Charter and, as an active Member, deeply appreciates the activity of the United Nations at this time of an anniversary celebration when it is in the process of redefining itself in order to meet the present international requirements and to anticipate what will happen in the third millennium. Allow me to convey to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our deep appreciation for his sustained efforts to adapt the United Nations to the ever- increasing requirements of a totally changing world. I did that already in Bucharest when he visited us last autumn. At that time we had a very useful exchange of views on problems concerning cooperation between Romania and the United Nations and concerning the availability and openness of the Romanian Government to support, and actively participate in, the global efforts of the United Nations. Romania is at present celebrating, not only the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, but also the fortieth anniversary of its admission to this world Organization. Despite its sacrifices and its important contribution to shortening the Second World War and the victory of the United Nations coalition, Romania was admitted to the United Nations 10 years after the Charter came into force. None the less, my country has proved its responsible commitment and its active role in the most important debate on international matters and in promoting the purposes and principles of the United Nations. In the six years since December 1989 the legislative and institutional framework for a democratic society has been constantly under development in Romania. The broad consensus of all political forces in my country eloquently proves that we as a nation have opted to become a law- abiding State with respect for political pluralism, for a market economy and for fundamental rights and freedoms. The new institutions that have been established are now in operation and at the same time have been consolidated, thus contributing to the democratization of our society and the acceleration of the process of transformation, in keeping with the strategy for socio-economic reform which my Government has. The complex reform programme has been unfolding successfully. In 1995 the reality in Romania differs from that at the end of 1992. The success of macroeconomic stabilization, and the improvement in the macroeconomy in general are an important argument for the integration of Romania into the European Union as it is an argument for other countries of central Europe. That does not mean that reform in Romania is going along smoothly and without obstacles. As is the case with other central European countries, its implementation involves large social costs which require permanent social security measures. In this sense, I should like to emphasize the support and encouragement that the United Nations has given to Romania and to other countries in transition, which show the capacity of the world Organization to support the reform process. In this context, my delegation wishes to welcome the Secretary-General’s report entitled “Support by the United Nations system of the efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate new or restored democracies”. We feel that a substantial debate on this subject could define a new dimension for United Nations activity. Romania, which next year is to organize the Third International Conference of New or Restored Democracies has decided to make that meeting an important event for the promotion of democratic values throughout the world. Romania’s political objectives are determined not by circumstances but rather by its decisive commitment to democracy, market economy, respect for human rights and the need to ensure the country’s peace and prosperity. We believe that Romania’s integration into European and Euro-Atlantic economic, political and security structures — the principal goal of our foreign policy — will stimulate our own efforts at democratization and reform. At the same time, this demonstrates the Government’s willingness to make a noteworthy contribution to the achievement of the goals of those institutions and to the creation of favourable conditions 37 for stability and security in Europe as well as peace and security in the world. By openly and unequivocally stating its basic interest in becoming part of the Euro-Atlantic economic, political and security structures, Romania is in no way neglecting its relations with its neighbours. Indeed, the furthering of relations with our neighbours, on a new footing, is a primary concern. In this connection I would mention the recent initiative taken by our President, His Excellency Mr. Ion Iliescu, who invited Hungary to join in consecrating the historical reconciliation, on the Franco-German model — a remarkable example of success in the European spirit. Romania has solemnly stated its willingness to undertake all diplomatic steps to move beyond the stage of purely political statements and to make the notion of reconciliation a fait accompli. The direct and unconditional invitation to Hungary to forge, with us, the future of our nations in a European spirit goes beyond a mere political- diplomatic step, envisaging as it does the establishment of a social and political framework based on greater confidence and more intensive cooperation. To put it another way, for Romania reconciliation means a consciously assumed and systematically pursued process. At the same time, it should constitute for our two countries the surest way to achieve integration into the main institutions of the new Europe, thereby contributing to the consolidation of stability and security in the region and thus in the rest of the continent. Romania’s initiative in launching an appeal to Hungary to enter together into the historical reconciliation that is so greatly desired is the natural result of a policy of good-neighbourliness and understanding that Romania has been constantly pursuing with all its neighbours. Dialogue and pragmatic cooperation in various areas of activity with States from all regions of the world is, moreover, another important direction of our foreign policy. The disappearance of the iron curtain gave birth to a vast and complex process of international détente by creating a genuine framework for dialogue and cooperation between States. The renunciation of confrontational policies and the lessening of the nuclear threat created the conditions for the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We are convinced that that success will assist the negotiations aimed at the elimination of other weapons of mass destruction and lead to greater transparency, both in the area of armaments and in the area of security guarantees, as well as to a complete ban on all nuclear tests. In recent years the United Nations has repeatedly put forward new concepts and mechanisms regarding international peace and security and economic and social development. In that context, I am grateful for this opportunity to recall the constant support Romania has given the Middle East peace process by encouraging the continuation of dialogue and contacts among the parties concerned. In recognition of its contribution to the positive results of that peace process Romania was invited to participate in the multilateral negotiations on the Middle East. It is prepared to participate in working groups on regional economic cooperation, water resources, the environment and refugees. Totally convinced that reason will prevail and that the irreversible Middle East peace process must be supported, in the future also Romania will encourage and support understanding and cooperation among all the peoples of the region. We sincerely hope that through the common efforts of all the parties involved, the United Nations and the international community, new progress will be achieved so that a comprehensive solution to the problems of that region can be found. The Yugoslav crisis continues to create deep concern in Romania, given its close proximity to the conflict zone. Romania has appealed many times to the parties involved in the conflict to refrain from any action that might lead to the deterioration of the situation and to halt military actions and resume negotiations. Faithful to its position of principle, Romania hails yesterday’s adoption, at the United States Mission to the United Nations here in New York, of a joint statement of supplementary principles for a constitutional settlement in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Romania will actively support any proposal and any realistic action that will accelerate the pacification process in the territory of former Yugoslavia, including its peaceful reconstruction. The political and military crisis in former Yugoslavia shows that attempts to achieve ethnic separatism and to gain territorial autonomy on the basis of ethnic criteria or to establish ethnic enclaves are not viable solutions. To the contrary, they may become sources of conflict and create enormous suffering for the population. 38 I should like to reaffirm from this rostrum the Romanian Government’s decision to continue to strictly respect the sanctions imposed on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), despite the immense economic losses to our country. We do hope, nonetheless, that the competent international institutions will take a more careful look at the effects of the sanctions on third States and that they will rigorously and realistically assess the role sanctions can play in the peace process. We hope that States that are in a position to do so, international financial institutions, competent bodies and United Nations programmes and specialized agencies will all respond to the General Assembly’s appeal in resolution 49/21 A concerning economic assistance to States affected by the implementation of the sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). At the same time, we would be interested in seeing the Security Council take decisions, in line with the progress achieved in the political settlement of the crisis, with a view to lifting the sanctions. The situation in the eastern area of the Republic of Moldova is still a source of some tension. We are convinced that the immediate withdrawal of foreign troops, whatever their form or denomination, from the territory of that independent and sovereign State remains the key to the solution of the conflict in the eastern regions of the Republic of Moldova. Indeed, we note with satisfaction that the international community shares that view. We welcome the agreement reached between the Republic of Moldova and the Russian Federation on the withdrawal of Russian troops from the territory of the former country. We view this as a positive step that can contribute to increased stability in the area, and we express the hope that this agreement will become operational. The United Nations has quite rightly been given a principal role in designing a new world order, one capable of responding to the hopes and aspirations of peoples. To achieve that goal, we believe, the United Nations must adapt its structures to the requirements of economic development and must pay increased attention to harmonizing commercial practices, technical cooperation and monetary policies of Member States and international financial institutions. Recent United Nations activity has been marked by an important series of summit conferences which have dealt with topics of major interest to all mankind. These conferences have emphasized the urgency, the seriousness and the complexity of the topics they have dealt with and have expanded the sphere of action of international consensus regarding programmes throughout the world related to the environment, population, social development, human rights and the status of women. We feel that the United Nations and Member States must focus their efforts on the ways and means necessary to implement the decisions adopted by those conferences. In this sense, I should like to mention the Plan of Action adopted by the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development. The usefulness of this document was reconfirmed at a regional seminar on its implementation in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe which was organized recently in Romania in cooperation with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). At the same time, I should like to express my Government’s readiness to organize a similar meeting in Bucharest next year to consider the progress achieved at the regional level in implementing the provisions of the Platform for Action adopted by the World Conference on Women, held in Beijing. It is clear that the major global problems taken up by the United Nations cannot be resolved without adequate financial support. The unparalleled increase in the number of major problems brought to the attention of the United Nations has not been accompanied by an increase in necessary resources. The United Nations is today faced with a severe financial crisis. One possible approach to this crisis should be to consider the more effective use of available internal resources, the elimination of duplication in activities, more effective document control, productive use of human resources, strict financial monitoring and a permanent process of cost-benefit analysis. With regard to the use of resources, peace-keeping operations deserve special mention. The unprecedented increase in these operations indicates, among other things, a more active involvement on the part of the United Nations in the management of crises and in preventive diplomacy. This new trend has necessitated an increase in resources. If we take into account that the great majority of present conflicts involving United Nations peace- keeping operations are internal, we have to admit that the international community has very limited means for exerting pressure. Continuing ineffective operations does not serve to achieve the goals of the United Nations satisfactorily, and consequently the Romanian delegation supports the trend towards a closer and more rigorous examination of all decisions related to launching new peace-keeping operations or continuing existing ones. 39 Romania has made known its interest in limiting and preventing conflicts in different areas of the globe, not only by promoting and encouraging the discovery of political solutions, but also by participating in United Nations peace- keeping operations in Iraq and Kuwait, in Somalia, in Rwanda and in Angola. Romania is determined to make a substantial contribution to such operations and initiatives. To this end, a special programme has been adopted to increase our capacity to react adequately to any request from the United Nations or other bodies while strictly respecting the principles governing the activities of the United Nations. If we look back over the long road the United Nations has travelled during its half century existence and, in particular, if we look at the efforts it has made to adapt itself to the dynamics of international life in the last five years, we are convinced of the value and the historic destiny of the United Nations. I should like to assure the Assembly that Romania, with its dedication to peace, its desire to cooperate at all levels — bilateral, regional, multilateral — its firm commitment to protect international peace and security, its commitment to democratic values and respect for human rights, is determined to support the common heritage of values of the United Nations. Our presence among the Members of the United Nations for 40 years is based on the prestige and the moral authority which the United Nations enjoys in the eyes of the Romanian people. For this reason, we shall, with all our energy and our available resources, remain committed to the noble duty of serving the ideas and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Allow me to congratulate the President on his election to his high office at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. The Government and the people of the Republic of Malawi hold him and his great country, Portugal, in high esteem. His appointment to preside over the deliberations of the Assembly during this important session, as the United Nations commemorates its fiftieth anniversary, is an indisputable reflection of the recognition of his eminence by the international community. My delegation is confident that he will guide the deliberations of the Assembly to a fruitful conclusion. At the same time, allow me to pay tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, who, in spite of the complexity of the issues and the difficult constraints which confronted the United Nations during his tenure, guided the work of the forty-ninth session with admirable skill, dignity and vision. It is indeed very difficult to have to speak today after His Holiness the Pope, lest those words which this morning flew up to high rafters of this building be forgotten. We in Malawi feel that perhaps it was our fate to be scheduled to speak after him. The Assembly will recall that the Pope talked about the moral aspects of nationhood, politics and relations between nations. The Assembly will also remember how he gave the word freedom a new dimension and meaning, saying that man will insist on it, whether small or big. The Assembly will also remember the moral responsibility he put upon the human being, both as an individual and as a member of the community of what is really a small planet. One need only fly a few miles up in the air from this little planet, which we call Earth, to see that we all really look like little rabbits dashing from one foxhole to another. However, as human beings, we also resemble God, our creator. To me it seemed as if our call to speak after him, this afternoon, was an occasion to try to strengthen what His Holiness the Pope left with us this morning. The twentieth century is soon coming to an end. Historians will remember and record it as the century of three great phenomena, I think. The first was the establishment of a power structure, as demonstrated by the rise of the great experiments: the experiment in democracy built on capitalism and respect for individual rights and the experiment in socialism based on a social contract for a community with a common purpose. The conflict of these ideas would lead to the emergence of what would dominate the world’s political ways during the first 45 years of this Organization’s existence: the cold war. The second great phenomenon that the Pope referred to was the fall of the empires built by the European Powers from Asia to Africa and the proud rise of colonized people to independence. The third — and perhaps the most heart-rending — phenomenon of this century was that of racism. We saw it first in South Africa and later began to see it rearing its ugly head in the twilight of this century. 15 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting The curtain of this act finally falls on the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. Let us remember the joy and ecstasy with which the former colonial countries emerged into independence as Members of this body. What genius woke up to think of and, later, to found this Organization? What idealism sustained it? Yet a dark shadow haunted it in its growth; and now, as the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary is upon us, we somehow realize that perhaps the cold war, that Iron Curtain, was used by the great Powers, in the name of democracy, human rights and justice for all, simply to keep a balance of power. Malawi does not wish to seem bitter in expressing some of these thoughts; but 50, even in a mere human life, is the age at which soul-searching is important. Along with many others, Malawi sowed the seeds of its own gorgon 30 years ago — what the Pope referred to as the totalitarian totem. The pattern of Presidents-for-life and one-party autocracies bred a series of dictatorships supported by the interests of the cold war’s great Powers. When perestroika knocked on the door, man heaved a sigh of relief. The cold war had ended. We in Malawi were not left behind. A new dawn broke in the land once described by Africa Watch as a place where silence rules. Last year Malawi stood up in this Assembly to declare proudly that a people cannot be kept down for ever by man’s inhumanity to man. Thanks to the action of the United Nations, Malawi fought, this time not for independence, but for democracy. A referendum in 1993 and a general election, supervised by this world body and other friends, on 17 May 1994, gave birth to a new country. This is what the Pope referred to as “hope”. Today, a year and five months later, the four estates of democracy are taking root in Malawi. We now have an elective executive and a pluralist parliament with one of the most active and articulate oppositions slowly learning the complex art of debate and the art of give-and-take. In addition, we also have an independent judiciary protecting the bastion of the rule of law from which all human rights are protected and nurtured and we have an independent and free press. These four estates are almost a novelty in Malawi after 30 years of autocracy and a dictatorship responsible for the most vicious abuse of human life. Above all, it is important to remember that pathological hero worship is the price people pay for losing their self-respect. There is therefore cause to celebrate the 50 years of the life of the United Nations — especially for Malawi for, from the land of the dead, we have come back to the land of the living. We are astonished, however, that at this moment of rebirth Malawi — and possibly other countries — seem to have been abandoned. Could this be what the Pope was talking about — the small nations — those which have power, whether it be economic or military? Where are those great friends of yesteryear, the great friends of the days of the cold war? We are astonished that as we are rejoicing in our new democracy they are now standing aloof watching our skeletons of hitherto silenced and abused citizenry feeding the flickering fires of democracy against the howling winds of poverty, hunger and disease. In this wider breakthrough of understanding in the universe, let us be thankful that on this tiny planet there is on the East River in New York a piece of land where people meet to discuss problems — some no bigger than an ant-hill and some larger — thankful that somewhere there is a little hill called Everest near Kathmandu where lilliputian human ants can crawl up and become heroes! After 30 Years of educated leadership we are still one of the least developed countries in the world, highest in the rate of illiteracy and the most highly indebted, but the most beautiful in nature and the one best qualified, perhaps, for a Marshall Plan. Malawi is among those countries in the world that have a high incidence of the HIV/AIDS infection. This pandemic has seriously affected the young and active segment of the population, which is the hub of development activity in all sectors of the national economy. We commend the untiring efforts of the World Health Organization and other institutions which, together with my Government, are actively engaged in tackling this pandemic. But perhaps I might add that, above all, the Conference on Women held in Beijing brought to the fore, at least for us, the entire issue of trying to understand the whole question of man’s responsibility towards man and the importance of the idea of hope and sustenance in recognizing the role of women, for in my country 70 per cent of the economy and 70 per cent of human love and care and 70 per cent of all that makes a nation admirable is in the hands of women. How can one understand those who caused so many bombs and mines to be planted in Mozambique and Angola? How do they think of the women and children 16 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting who wake up with new hope and who go to fetch water or plant their plantations and who find themselves blown up by those who should have cared much more than to play with such weapons — such utterly senseless weapons of destruction? Until recently my country hosted a large number of refugees from Mozambique when that country was experiencing civil strife. The size of the refugee community, which peaked at over a million, has now decreased as refugees are returning home since the conclusion of a peace accord between the then warring FRELIMO government and the forces of RENAMO. However, despite the ongoing repatriation of the refugees back to Mozambique, a strong legacy of environmental degradation is left behind. Deforestation, overgrazing, and the destruction of roads used by relief supply vehicles are some of the problems which resulted from the presence of the refugees. In addition, Malawi is playing host to a number of refugee communities from around Africa — from Rwanda and Somalia — although their numbers have grown nowhere near those reached by our brothers and sisters from neighbouring Mozambique. The Government of Malawi would like at this juncture to express its most sincere gratitude and appreciation for the kind and invaluable assistance received from the United Nations system, particularly through the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), as well as from donor Governments and agencies, and non-governmental organizations at a time when we most needed help. Since the region experienced severe drought in the 1992 and 1993 crop seasons, with a mild recovery in 1993 and 1994, rainfall has continued to be erratic in southern Africa. The economy of Malawi, which is almost entirely agro-based, has been hard-hit, resulting in chronic food shortages. This season has not been any better. Once again, the country faces severe food shortages, which the Government has to meet through importing grain, mainly maize. Is this a test of our democracy? Can a democracy, even a classical Grecian one, grow on an empty stomach? Against this background is the programme for the alleviation of poverty, which the new Government of Malawi has enunciated in order to tackle the chronic poverty which it inherited from the previous regime. The poverty-alleviation programme seeks to target the rural poor, who are in the majority as the primary beneficiary. A poverty-alleviation fund has been set up, along with a Malawi social action fund, which is a component thereof. The programme is multisectoral in approach and aims at promoting the education and health sectors among others. The Government has, in this regard, introduced free primary school education and has also tried to increase the number of schools. My Government would therefore like to thank the United Nations system and the donor community and the many other institutions in the private sector — especially the missionary sector — which have extended assistance in our development endeavours, for if our courage and hope had not been evoked by the Catholic bishops of Malawi I would not be speaking here today. I am a product of the 30 years of exile which totalitarianism imposed on my country. The success of the poverty alleviation programme therefore becomes a major aspect of our hopes and expectations. The new culture of tolerance has created a highly conducive climate for investment. We have therefore opened the door to prospective investors to come, explore and take advantage of the opportunities which exist in other areas such as tourism, irrigation, mining and other sectors of the economy. Malawi has noted with interest the ongoing efforts to reform the United Nations system. We have observed in particular the various proposals that have been put forward on the reform of the Security Council. The Security Council is, truly, an important organ of the Organization. It is therefore proper and fitting that an organ of such high standing should operate in an accountable and transparent manner. In addition, Malawi supports measures aimed at enhancing equitable representation in an effort to reflect the existing international political configuration as well as the composition of the United Nations. As Malawi consolidates genuine freedom and democracy it is pleasing to note that the rest of the southern African region has unwaveringly embraced this new culture of political pluralism and tolerance. More important, those countries which have for long been devastated by civil strife have either resolved or are in the process of resolving their misunderstandings. Malawi welcomes encouraging moves towards the demobilization of combatants of both the Angolan Government Forces and the National Union for the Total 17 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting Independence of Angola (UNITA) under the third United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III). We fully commend the invaluable role which we, the United Nations, are playing in Angola. In South Africa, the post-apartheid Government of President Nelson Mandela is now firmly in place. Incidentally, I am glad I can pronounce it properly, for it is not “apartheid” but “apart hate” — put apart and hate. The demise of “apart hate” brightened prospects for peace and cooperation in southern Africa. Malawi therefore calls upon the international community to render unflinching support to the new and emerging democracies in the region so that they do not slide back to anarchy and authoritarianism. The Malawi Government is concerned about the slow pace at which the identification of eligible voters is proceeding in Western Sahara. We appreciate the efforts of the United Nations to extend its Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) as a show of genuine commitment to resolving this long-standing issue. It should, however, be noted that without the commitment of the principal players in the matter the current efforts will all be in vain. We therefore call upon the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco to allow the United Nations Mission a free hand in its operations so that the deadline of January 1996 for the holding of a referendum can be met. Malawi has noted with a good deal of concern the horrendous massacres of innocent people in the Central African country of Rwanda. However, despite the continued existence of ethnic tensions, the efforts of the United Nations to ensure that peace finally descends upon this troubled area have not faltered. To this end, my Government earnestly commends the role played by the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR), to which we have made a modest contribution of military observers as a demonstration of Malawi’s commitment to the restoration of peace. The militarization of the refugee camps outside Rwanda is a source of great concern to Malawi. We therefore call upon the international community to do its utmost to reverse the reported inflow of weaponry into the refugee camps, and appeal to the people of Rwanda to exercise political maturity in order to avoid a degeneration of the situation into the tragedy of yesteryear, especially when the mandate of UNAMIR expires on 9 December 1995. My Government is encouraged by the progress being made in the Middle East peace process. We commend the courage and determination of the Government of the State of Israel as well as the leadership of the Palestine National Authority to move ahead. The two players deserve the unflinching support and applause of the international community to ensure that elements which are opposed to the peace process do not succeed. On the other hand, we have observed with remorse the tragedy which has unfolded in the countries of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Innocent civilians have been the most hurt in the shifting fortunes of war in the Balkan region. Understandably, the United Nations and the rest of the international community can play only a limited role in the resolution of the conflict. My Government, therefore, calls upon the principal players in the region to cooperate with the international community in finding a lasting solution to the conflict. It is the hope of my Government that the Korean people on both sides of the thirty-eighth parallel will sustain and strengthen contact, with the aim of breaking the existing impasse in the reunification of the divided peninsula. In the same vein, my Government favours any efforts the United Nations may undertake with the aim of resolving the issue of the international status of the Republic of China on Taiwan in a manner which would be acceptable to both the Government of the People’s Republic of China and the authorities in Taiwan. As the United Nations celebrates 50 years of existence, let us take full stock of the work of the Organization since its birth. Let us retrace our steps and weigh our achievements and failures so that we may approach the twenty-first century with renewed vigour and commitment. Let us not lose sight of the ideals which the Organization stands for as we continue to uphold the necessary flexibility for its adaptation to current trends. Lastly, to those who love and cherish democracy let the word go out, lest we forget, that the name “Nyasaland” at one time represented the biblical David and Goliath in the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, which, if it had been given birth, would have made the script for that region a different story. When the borders that defined our nationhood opened again and we became part of Mother Africa and the rest of the world, our State President, Bakili Muluzi, burst out of a suffocated Malawi, which had become a prison, and invited the world to come and rejoice with us. The silent Malawians who had crept out of Malawi, cautious not to speak to 18 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting others about the pain of imprisonment and death in their prison country, now saw a new leadership, not only in President Muluzi, but in the people of the country themselves. If these 15 months of the new Malawi have not meant much to the World Bank, the fatigued donors and the sceptical theoreticians, let them remember the following great words of Pliny: “There is always something new out of Africa. Its presence on this continent, like the great seas that surround it, are legendary. Ignore Africa to your peril.” (Pliny the Elder, Natural History, VII, 77) In the same breath, we plead to you here again and again: listen to what was said at the United Nations social summit meeting, at the United Nations women’s summit meeting and during the International Year of the Child. There is no hope for mankind in the twenty-first century and after without a United Nations based on those three great occasions. Malawi pleads to those great nations that have grown up with the ideals and ideas of human giants of the world not to jump off the ship that carries us all. No one can say, “Stop the world, I want to get off.” On behalf of the people of Malawi, I thank Members of the General Assembly for their attention. First of all I wish to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the distinguished post of President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth, jubilee session. I am sure that his personal and professional qualities will serve as a solid guarantee that during this particularly important session the United Nations will achieve new concrete steps in its search for ways to meet the complicated challenges facing humanity. I wish to express our gratitude to his predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, and to the Secretary-General of the Organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. We are proud that Belarus was at the origin of the creation of the United Nations and became one of the founding Members of the Organization, having signed the Charter of the United Nations at San Francisco. That honourable right was a testimony to the international recognition of the contribution made by the people of Belarus to the defeat of fascism during the Second World War, the homage paid to the millions of Belarusians who gave their lives in the struggle for liberty and of the right of the Belarusian people to exist as a nation with its own history, culture and future. Emerging from the ashes of the Second World War, the United Nations has experienced the most serious crises and conflicts, the cold war and détente, considerable changes in the political map of the world and the break-up and formation of unions and blocs of States. The Organization has coped creditably with these challenges. Thanks to the United Nations humankind, for the first time in its history, has acquired the opportunity to live for half a century in peace. The contribution of the United Nations to the process of the peaceful settlement of many conflicts is well known. One of the most important achievements of the United Nations is that the world has rid itself of such odious phenomena as apartheid and is close to a complete eradication of colonialism, another no less odious remnant of the past. It is also appropriate to note the role of the United Nations in elaborating and adopting universal documents in the sphere of human rights, as well as in establishing the supremacy of international law. The hopes and expectations of the peoples associated with the United Nations are convincing evidence of the important role of the Organization at this stage. The tasks that the United Nations is facing today seem to be much more complicated than those of the past, when they were dictated by the pernicious but understandable logic of confrontation. Today it is necessary to solve the challenges of the future world order; and this implies the necessity to reform the United Nations system. Reform of the United Nations, including that of the Security Council, one of its principal organs responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, is the watchword of the day, and is in many respects an extremely complicated matter. But each State can and should make its own contribution to the formation of the renewed United Nations. This will enable the 6 Organization to reflect the diversity of the contemporary world, the interdependence of States, the equality of great and small and the security and development of all. The reform of the United Nations should result in a more effective Organization as a whole. The reform of the Security Council may be carried out only on the basis of a reasonable increase in the membership of the Council, with strict respect for the principle of the equitable geographical distribution of additional seats among all the regions of the world. The Belarusian delegation is convinced that the allocation of an additional seat for a non-permanent member of the Council to the Eastern European regional group is fully justified and will ensure a new, emerging balance of interests. I am sure that the United Nations will be able to adapt itself fully to the present realities, as well as duly to respond to the demands and foreseeable global challenges of the twenty-first century. Among the most serious problems the world community is facing nowadays are regional conflicts. Such conflicts are not a new problem, but in their present dimensions they represent a new challenge for the United Nations. We are fully convinced that, in striving for their settlement, the United Nations should not yield to the temptation to use military force to accelerate the process. Peace-keeping and peace enforcement are two different and in many respects exactly opposite methods, and not links in the same continuing chain of crisis resolution. We consider it very important not to go beyond the limits to violence and ruthlessness that are incompatible with the nature of the Organization. Our delegation notes with satisfaction the progress made in the settlement of the Middle East conflict. We believe that the continuation of the direct dialogue between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) will finally lead to a comprehensive solution providing for respect for the right of all States of the region to live in peace within internationally recognized borders. We deeply regret the terrorist acts that are periodically carried out in the region and which considerably hamper the peace process. Such acts must be severely condemned. The Balkan conflict is of special concern to us. The present developments in this region are fraught with the risk of large-scale military activities in Europe. The unresolved conflicts within the post-Soviet territories are still acute. From this lofty rostrum I should like once again to emphasize the unequivocal renunciation by Belarus of force to solve existing problems and the need to search for ways to settle conflicts peacefully by political means. This leads me to the conviction for the necessity of further strengthening cooperation between the United Nations and European regional and subregional organizations and agreements, especially the Organization on Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). Belarus stands for the broadening of interaction between the United Nations and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) not only in the sphere of conflict settlement on the territory of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), but also in the fields of disarmament, protection of the environment and the eradication of terrorism and organized crime. Against a background of heightened confrontation in some regions of the world, one cannot but rejoice at significant achievements in the consolidation of international security. We welcome the adoption by the 1995 Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of the historic decision on the indefinite extension of the Treaty. Belarus has been and remains a supporter of the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime. That is why our country, having clearly determined its position at an early stage, became a sponsor of that draft decision. At the same time, it is necessary to remember that the decision on the indefinite extension of the Treaty was adopted as a package. It envisions the strengthening of control over the implementation of its provisions and the realization of the approved principles and aims of nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. It is a duty of the nuclear-weapon States to confirm in practice their adherence to their obligations. The most important criteria of such adherence, in our view, are further progress towards nuclear disarmament, a comprehensive ban on nuclear tests and the inclusion of positive and negative security assurances to the non-nuclear-weapon States in an instrument of international law of binding character. Belarus confirms its non-nuclear-weapon status and is determined to implement the provisions of the Agreement on the withdrawal of nuclear weapons from its territory in full and on time. I am pleased to inform delegations that at the beginning of this year the Belarusian Parliament ratified the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons 7 and on their Destruction. We call upon all signatory countries to the Convention to ratify it as soon as possible, and we again declare our support for the comprehensive ban on chemical weapons. Belarus has always believed that, next to nuclear disarmament, the limitation of conventional weapons is of enormous importance for the consolidation of international peace and security. In this connection, I should like to touch upon the problems concerning the fulfilment of our obligations under the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe. Having assumed obligations under a Treaty in whose elaboration it did not participate, Belarus has been guided by the wish to assist in the consolidation of European and international security. From the very first days of the implementation of the Treaty we spent a considerable amount of resources on its implementation and on the creation of appropriate structures and industrial capacities for the elimination of huge stockpiles of armaments and equipment produced not for Belarus, but for the then super- Power, the Soviet Union. But as time passed it has become clear that for the young Belarusian State the elimination of those weapons was a burden beyond its strength. Therefore, we appealed to our Western European partners for assistance. For a long time our appeals were unanswered, which led us to suspend the elimination process temporarily. That decision was made due to a lack of financial resources, and had nothing to do with issues of global and regional policy. I am glad to say today that an understanding of our problems has recently begun to emerge. Our reaction has been immediate and fully adequate. As is known, the President of Belarus has declared that our country is resuming the elimination of conventional weapons in accordance with its obligations under the Treaty. I would also like to point out that, by special Presidential Decree, Belarus has declared a moratorium on the export of anti-personnel land-mines for the period from September 1995 until the end of 1997. Our Republic attaches paramount importance to the development of international cooperation in the economic, social and environmental spheres in the interests of the sustainable development of all countries. In this context, we attribute special significance to the series of world forums held under the auspices of the United Nations in Rio de Janeiro, Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing to consider problems in such spheres as those of the environment, social issues, population and human rights, and to search for ways to solve them. It is important that the decisions and recommendations of these forums be duly taken into account and efficiently utilized in elaborating “An Agenda for Development”, which is to determine the avenues and the programme of human development for years to come. We stand for the inclusion in this document of substantive issues related to economies in transition, a notion which would fully reflect present realities. Belarus takes a profound interest in supporting United Nations system-wide activities to promote the integration of these countries into the world economy. We are sure that, in today’s world, such an integration is advantageous to all and in the interests of all. In this connection, I should like once again to recall the Belarusian proposal — supported by the Commission on Sustainable Development at its third session and approved by a decision of the Economic and Social Council at its substantive session — to convene in 1997 an international conference on the sustainable development of countries with economies in transition. This proposal, once realized, would be an important contribution to the preparation of the special session of the General Assembly in 1997 to review the implementation of the agenda for the twenty-first century. Belarus places ardent hopes in cooperation and interaction to implement this initiative, first of all with the European Union, the European Commission, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other European regional and subregional organizations, as well as with interested partners. We also hope that the United Nations Development Programme and the Economic Commission for Europe will provide their competent assistance in preparing and convening the conference. One of the most important directions of the activities of the reformed Organization is, in our opinion, the development of economic dialogue within the framework of the United Nations aimed at the exchange of experience, the strengthening of the multilateral trade system and facilitating non-discriminatory access to world markets. In this connection, we consider that the speedy granting of membership in the World Trade Organization to our country would testify to a fair attitude towards a founding Member of the United Nations with an economy in transition. One cannot but note that, in countries with economies in transition, the effectiveness of tackling 8 social problems is directly linked with the fate of democratic reforms. The new economic and political conditions in which these countries find themselves require large-scale economic transformations and the social adaptation of all population groups. Without effective international support, the achievement of this goal would be delayed for an indefinite period. It is for this reason that Belarus is interested in continuing all programmes initiated by the Organization in the social sphere. The promotion of universal respect for, and the protection of, human rights and fundamental freedoms is one of the goals stipulated in the United Nations Charter as well as an important component of international security. At this jubilee session, it is appropriate to note that significant success has been attained in this field since the inception of the Organization half a century ago. The undisputed achievement of the international community is the adoption of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, the consistent implementation of which will be conducive to securing universal respect for justice, the supremacy of law and human rights. Unfortunately, the path to full implementation of human rights is strewn with many obstacles which, in our opinion, are raised by imperfect social relations rather than by a lack of will to exercise these rights. We are convinced that it is high time today to think of, and act for, the benefit of tomorrow not only by strengthening in every possible way the mechanisms of protection of human rights, but by taking concrete measures to study and expand the list of fundamental universal and categorical human rights. For more than nine years now, the Belarusians have been living under the conditions of an ecological disaster — that of the Chernobyl nuclear-power plant catastrophe. The Republic spends annually more than 20 per cent of its national budget to mitigate the economic, ecological and medical after-effects of the Chernobyl accident. But most horrible is what is happening to the health and psyche of the people. The incidence of thyroid cancer in children has increased manifold. The birth rate has fallen 50 per cent since the period preceding the accident. Genetic diseases are conspicuously on the rise in the most contaminated areas. As time goes by, it becomes more and more evident that the Chernobyl catastrophe has infringed the most sacred of human rights — the right to life. We are glad to note the important catalysing role played by the General Assembly and its specialized agencies in drawing the attention of the donor countries and of the international organizations to the Chernobyl problems. As the day of the catastrophe recedes into the past, the nature of the after-effects of Chernobyl also changes, requiring a strengthened role on the part of the United Nations in the development of Chernobyl-related bilateral cooperation. On its part, Belarus is ready to sign bilateral memoranda on Chernobyl cooperation with the World Health Organization, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and other agencies of the United Nations system. In March 1996, an international conference will be convened in Minsk, with the active participation of UNESCO and the European Commission, to commemorate the lamentable tenth anniversary of the Chernobyl accident. We express our hope that this representative forum will help to step up joint efforts to study the after-effects of the radioactive fallout and make more effective the efforts aimed at mitigating the fatal consequences of the catastrophe, on the basis of the experience accumulated by Belarus. Finally, the manifold and unfair increase in the Belarus rate of assessments to the United Nations regular budget and to peace-keeping operations — caused by the fact that Belarus, along with the economically most advanced countries, was related to group B — has resulted in the rapid growth of our arrears. We note with deep satisfaction the special decision to relocate the Republic of Belarus to group C for the apportionment of peace-keeping expenses which was taken during the resumed forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. On behalf of the Government of Belarus, I would like to express our sincere gratitude to the delegations of all countries that displayed a spirit of understanding and cooperation during the consideration of this issue. I address my special words of gratitude to the Government of Portugal, whose consent voluntarily to relocate to group B opened the way for the adoption of the aforementioned decision. I am confident that such actions are an important contribution to the governance of principles of justice in the work of the Organization, which in itself is very significant on the eve of its golden jubilee. For its part, the Government of Belarus, in spite of the utmost economic difficulties, fully aware of the depth of the United Nations financial crisis and sincerely striving to fulfil its financial obligations to the Organization, has decided to transfer about $2 million dollars to the United Nations budget. 9 In his fifties, a person is no longer at the peak of his physical capacities, but acquires considerable life experience and wisdom. I would like to express a wish that the United Nations, once its 50-year threshold has been crossed, will remain full of strength and health and unsurpassed in wisdom in all its deeds. It is indeed fitting that this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly is being presided over by Mr. Freitas do Amara of Portugal, a distinguished teacher of law, an experienced parliamentarian, and the founder of one of the major political parties that helped to return vibrant democracy to his homeland. He will meet the challenges of this office with the intellect and skill that have marked his service to his country and region. His Excellency, Mr. Amara Essy, who presided over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, has my warmest appreciation of his leadership through a complex agenda. I salute the Secretary-General as well as the women and men of the Secretariat, the specialized agencies and other bodies of the United Nations for their extraordinary work during this difficult time in the Organization’s history. I embrace the representatives of Palau, the newest Member State — our sister in the South Pacific region. We of Solomon Islands, a politically stable democracy, live in peace, but we have known the cruelty and havoc of modern war. Not only did the Battle of Guadalcanal in the Second World War inflict damage on our natural environment, leaving behind untold numbers of dangerous armaments, but it caused adverse effects on human and economic development as well. We number less than 400,000 people of diverse ethnic origins, speak some 87 distinct languages in various dialects, and live together on hundreds of islands spread over 1600 square kilometres of ocean. We live in a part of the world of exquisite beauty with a delicate marine and forest ecology that is critical to our well-being and survival. From the perspective of my country, peace and development are inextricably linked. The Agenda for Development and the Agenda for Peace make this as clear as the brilliant and pollution-free waters of our sun- drenched lagoons. In his latest report on the work of the Organization, the Secretary-General observed that development: “the foremost and most far-reaching task of our time ... must be seen in its many dimensions — in the contexts of peace, the economy, environmental protection, social justice and democracy”. (A/50/1, para. 182) Each is critical for development, but without peace the other dimensions shrink like characters in stories for children. We applaud the Secretary-General’s efforts to implement the Agenda for Peace. The development of a framework for coordinating the planning and implementation of complex field operations is welcome. In its efforts to broker peace, the United Nations has wrestled with seemingly intractable problems. Solomon Islands, one of the least developed countries, living in peace, gladly contributes its financial share to peace- keeping and supports initiatives to protect United Nations personnel and to aid civilian populations. 8 Yet, ethnic strife and armed conflict rage in many places with suffering and devastation beyond comprehension. The violation of human rights continues. Poverty saps the creativity and vitality of thousands of millions. Vast numbers of children, especially female children, do not have their basic needs met and many do not survive infancy or early childhood. Solomon Islands, which reaffirms its commitment to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, applauds the work of the United Nations Children’s Fund. Minimal education, illiteracy, labouring in unspeakable conditions, prostitution and life on the streets are the conditions of many children. The mass media with an educational purpose have a powerful role in changing all of this as Solomon Islanders living in communities separated by the sea have learned. Moreover, many of the world’s women continue to face serious economic and social discrimination as the 1995 Human Development Report to the United Nations Development Programme demonstrates. The education of women in Solomon Islands is critical to them, their children, their families and the nation. Without it, sustainable development and the levelling of population growth are unattainable goals. Solomon Islands applauds the steps taken by the United States of America and the Russian Federation to reduce their nuclear arsenals in accordance with Start I, on the reduction and limitation of strategic offensive arms. We look forward to agreement on and implementation of the Treaty on Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms (Start II). Solomon Islands and its sister States in the Pacific region fearfully watch the ominous nuclear-weapons tests of France and the People’s Republic of China. We especially deplore the fact that France is conducting them in the South Pacific with its fragile marine ecology essential to the lives of island peoples. Recent reports in the French media indicate that the potential danger of these tests is far greater than we have been led to believe. The threats to people, animals and plants — even the genetic foundations of life — are terribly real. Do we need additional evidence of this after Hiroshima and Nagasaki? Why are more nuclear tests really required? How valid is the concept of nuclear deterrence now? If, as France claims, nuclear-weapons explosions on Mururoa Atoll and Fangataufa Atoll in French Polynesia are so safe, why not set them off in the soil of the mother country? Its presence in Polynesia and New Caledonia makes France our neighbour in the Pacific where a post-cold-war redefinition of the region is well under way. Do good neighbours endanger the environment that sustains them? Are we not gambling away the future of humankind at the nuclear- weapons dice table? To the nuclear-threshold States, these tests send the wrong signal. The Pacific is certainly the wrong place; now, today, is the wrong time; and for international cooperation, this is the wrong policy. Global warming, as the intergovernmental climate- change experts are now confirming, continues. The consequences for the small island States are most serious, including the potential impact of sea-level rise. They threaten our agricultural and fish production, thereby endangering our economy and undermining our ability to develop. Clearly, this global problem requires a global solution, but the industrial countries must take the lead if joint solutions are to be successfully implemented. Solomon Islands is contributing to the quest for international peace and security in a number of ways. Towards disarmament, we have ratified the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), and we took an active part in the NPT Review and Extension Conference, joining in the consensus to extend the NPT indefinitely. We ratified the Treaty of Rarotonga establishing the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone. Establishing nuclear-free zones is an important initiative towards creating a non-proliferation regime in cooperation with other States. Solomon Islands, along with others, made two submissions to the International Court of Justice on the legality of the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, a matter now before the Court. Solomon Islands is participating in the process for the completion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty by September 1996. We believe that a comprehensive test- ban treaty is the fulcrum upon which nuclear disarmament will be raised from dream to reality. Ultimately, disarmament is a question of courage and overcoming fear. It begins within, and its achievement must come from within as well — inside them and us, inside you and me. As for environmental issues, Solomon Islands is a State party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and fully supports the Berlin mandate, which includes the Alliance of Small Island States protocol. With so much of our present and future economy based on our forests and marine life, we embrace the Convention on Biological Diversity, which Solomon Islands acceded to this year, the Barbados Programme of Action, the Nouméa Convention, and the International Coral Reef Initiative. We support a global programme of action to protect the marine environment 9 from land-based activities. Concerned about the shipment and importation of hazardous and radioactive wastes in the South Pacific region, Solomon Islands endorses the Waigani Convention recently adopted at the twenty-sixth South Pacific Forum, held in Papua New Guinea, and calls for the rehabilitation of former nuclear-weapon test sites and assistance to the peoples who were forced from those places. We live in a world of disturbing, often cruel, contrasts. These, sustainable development has to address. In his report on the work of the Organization, the Secretary-General states that “development at its core must be about improvement of human well-being, the removal of poverty, hunger, disease and ignorance, ensuring productive employment and the satisfaction of priority needs of all people in a way that can be sustained over future generations; ... the emerging consensus on the priority and dimensions of development should find expression in a new framework for international cooperation”. (A/50/1, para. 182) Solomon Islands views this emerging consensus as the beginning of a new diplomacy that puts people at the heart of development. The new diplomacy should work vigorously to implement the programmes of action crafted at the World Summit for Children, the Earth Summit, the World Conference on Human Rights, the International Conference on Population and Development, the World Summit for Social Development, the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and the Fourth World Conference on Women. After Habitat II, in Istanbul next year, we do not require more large conferences, for the time being at least. Rather, we need international will and partnership, political commitment, and thoughtful, decisive action to ensure that these programmes of action are implemented. As the Declaration of Barbados affirms, “Small island developing nations are particularly vulnerable to natural as well as environmental disasters and have a limited capacity to respond to and recover from such disasters.” (A/CONF.167/9, annex I, part one, section III, para. 1) Limited in size and with vulnerable economies, they must depend on a narrow resource base and upon international trade, without the means to influence its terms. Solomon Islands and the other small island developing States require international partnership and cooperation to achieve and maintain sustainable development. The new diplomacy based on people-centred development has at its heart a spiritual dimension which embraces the ideals of democracy, tolerance, peaceful coexistence, justice and the rights of persons and peoples. It cares for the environment and rejects greed and intolerance. This new diplomacy will be a reflection of an agenda for democracy and tolerance, which Solomon Islands believes should be formulated to complete the triad of agendas. Such an agenda ought to be a basis for reforming the United Nations in general and the Security Council in particular. For Security Council reform to work, it must put people at the centre instead of a dominating nation, group of nations or region. Committed to democracy and tolerance, Solomon Islands calls for renewed consideration of the exceptional situation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the international context, on the basis of the principle of universality and in accordance with the established model of parallel representation of divided countries at the United Nations. The Republic of China’s standing as the fifteenth largest trading nation in the world, with the twentieth highest gross national product and the largest foreign-exchange holdings, its continuing assistance to many developing countries and its efforts to strengthen international economic cooperation are obvious and cannot be ignored by the world’s highest forum. In addition, the Republic of China’s contribution to world peace and its unfailing support of United Nations activities are undeniable evidence of its qualifications to receive proper consideration for having a seat at the United Nations. Solomon Islands therefore calls for a renewed focus on the issue of readmitting the Republic of China as a Member of the United Nations. Solomon Islands believes in a United Nations that calls for tolerance and works to practise it, a United Nations that promotes the values of diversity, tolerance, pluralism, peace, justice, solidarity and responsibility towards others and unknown future generations. Here, differences in race, religion, language and political doctrine are not obstacles, but challenges to understanding, compassion, insight and patience. The only hope for humanity is world peace, to be achieved by a change in attitude from one of “mine and my world” to one of “we and our world”. 10 May I first take this occasion to congratulate Ambassador Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to the presidency of the Assembly in this important fiftieth anniversary year. I should also like to offer a special welcome to Palau as the one hundred eighty-fifth Member. Palau’s accession does signal honour to us as a fellow Pacific State. Here today I want to talk about making our global neighbourhood a safer place for all of us; the progress that has been made in the years since the end of the cold war, and what still needs to be done. Memories are short; it is hard to recall the degree of mutual suspicion that coloured global politics just a few years ago. We have made great strides in recent times. The world community has achieved much in its efforts to make the world safer, and more stable. But we need to move on to reinforce our achievements in controlling, reducing and abolishing the horrific weapons of mass destruction. We have yet to see the dividend we all expected to flow from the end of the cold war. The transition to a post-cold-war world is not easy. We are painfully aware of that. In recent years though, we have been encouraged to believe that a new world order was achievable. One of the reasons for this hope, this optimism, was that the nuclear scourge had receded. For the first time in 50 years nuclear Powers were committed to build down rather than to build up, to decommission and destroy rather than to commission and construct. However, recent events have cast a cloud over that brief period of optimism. New Zealand does not believe 18 that continued nuclear testing, wherever it takes place, contributes to a safer world. On the contrary, nuclear testing sends the wrong message to States which do possess or which aspire to the possession of nuclear weapons. It also tells them that the development of these weapons is still acceptable. The nuclear tests which have taken place since the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons was extended have disturbed the delicate balance achieved at that Conference. New Zealand believed then, and continues to believe, that indefinite extension was the right option. The world needs a strong non-proliferation regime, one that cannot be called into question by changing global circumstances. But the Conference went further than that, the vast majority of participants making it very clear that they were against nuclear testing. They also wanted to move towards the nuclear-free world envisaged in article VI of the Treaty. The cavalier disregard, and dismissal of the views of the many, has led to considerable disillusionment. It will take a long time to restore the trust that had been there. New Zealand and the rest of the South Pacific region have long stood tall and proud in opposition to nuclear weapons and their testing. We abhor testing wherever it occurs. But the decision to resume testing in what we see as our home region has particularly angered the people of New Zealand. The leaders of the South Pacific Forum nations expressed their outrage at their meeting just two weeks ago. They were able to recall the painful memories in the region, going back to atmospheric testing conducted between 25 and 50 years ago. The South Pacific has not been alone in its opposition to nuclear testing. Governments, parliamentarians and peoples from every region of the world have spoken up in anger, alarm and dismay. The two Governments which are continuing to test nuclear weapons must heed the voice of the international community. They are dancing to a tune no one wants to hear. In these circumstances, New Zealand, along with a representative group of like-minded States, will submit an appropriate draft resolution to the First Committee of this Assembly. Testing is a backward step, and I condemn it. It is not too late. All that China and France need to do is listen to international opinion and announce that their testing programmes have ceased. I want to welcome the commitment by three of the nuclear-weapon States — France, the United Kingdom and the United States — to a genuine ban on nuclear testing: a prohibition on any nuclear explosions, no matter how small. This is what we have always called for: a comprehensive ban — where the word “comprehensive” means just that. We are pleased that it is attracting serious support. New Zealand calls on the two nuclear-weapon States that have not yet indicated full support for this approach to do so quickly. Time is short. The deadline for the negotiations is 1996, and the international community is holding the Conference on Disarmament accountable for meeting that deadline and producing a treaty that is genuinely comprehensive in scope. In this regard, the General Assembly has become increasingly concerned about the lack of accountability in the Conference on Disarmament. Limited and unrepresentative membership has been a large part of the problem. Enlargement is long overdue. New Zealand welcomes the progress made in recent weeks in Geneva, and we express our gratitude to Morocco for its efforts in this regard. However, the real test will be whether by the time we meet here again next year the new members will have been able to take their seats. For the moment, the outcome is still not satisfactory. I recall that democratic representation was once at the heart of a tea party in Boston. Let us hope that there will not be a tea party in New York in 1996 on membership of the Conference on Disarmament. I also urge the members of the Conference on Disarmament to look beyond the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty. New Zealand wants to see an international agreement banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. That would be another important step towards negotiations on the total elimination of nuclear weapons. We urge the Conference on Disarmament to resolve its procedural differences and get the negotiations under way. I should add that at the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons we raised the idea of negotiating an agreement to ban the future production of nuclear weapons. That could take us a step closer to eliminating the nuclear threat. 19 But it is also important to address the issues relating to conventional weapons. I wish, first, to address the issue of land-mines. I want to congratulate the Secretary-General and his staff for the way they have picked up this issue and raised public awareness around the world. The Conference organized in Geneva this year was most timely — but more is needed. Both financial and technical resources need to be made available to help dispose of the millions of treacherous life- and livelihood-destroying mines that have already been laid. I pledge New Zealand’s ongoing assistance in this work. Of course, disposal alone is not the answer. Urgent progress needs to be made to deal with these hideous weapons, which go on claiming the lives of innocent people — farmers, their children, shopkeepers, collectors of wood, carriers of water — long after conflicts have ceased. I ask all the participants at the Conference which opened this week in Vienna, which has as its main aim the revision of international law on land-mines, to work together to achieve the tightest possible restrictions on these totally indiscriminate weapons. I want to work to eliminate them entirely from the world’s armouries. This leads one to the broader questions of arms transfers. We are profoundly disturbed at the unnecessary and irrational increase in arms transfers. At a time when, globally, resources are desperately needed for development, for the environment, for health, why is it that even modest measures, such as enhancing the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms are still being resisted? Neither peace nor development is advanced if States put increasingly scarce economic resources into the defence sectors of their economies. Far too much of the global economic capacity is going into armaments when the citizens of the world desperately need better health, better education and a better future for their children. The widespread availability of conventional arms and the resurgence of ethnic nationalism have, together, produced a very dangerous cocktail, which poses a major threat to stability in the post-cold-war era. The need for Member States to maintain a collective approach in addressing these challenges has never been greater. Events in the former Yugoslavia over the past year have presented an enormous challenge to the international community. New Zealand fully supported the firm response made by this Organization and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to the murderous shelling of Sarajevo late in August. The diplomatic efforts now under way, including the very important constitutional agreement reached last Tuesday, offer some prospect for bringing to an end almost four years of a most appalling conflict. Some have been dismissive of the achievements of the United Nations in the former Yugoslavia. That, however, is to overlook the saving of tens of thousands of lives and the substantial relief of suffering. This is why New Zealand, despite its geographical distance from the region, has been willing to play its part. I believe that, one day, the United Nations mission in Bosnia will enjoy recognition of the successes it has achieved so far. It is a little too easy to focus on the problems of the United Nations. We need to remember its successes as well. I think of Cambodia and Mozambique, of El Salvador and Haiti, of Namibia and Angola and of the contributions to peace in various parts of the Middle East over the years. Even in Somalia, where a political settlement proved elusive, massive famine was relieved thanks to the United Nations. The United Nations is unique. It is called on to deal with the most intractable problems — the ones that others put into the “too hard” basket. And it works under the closest public scrutiny of Governments and the world’s media. New Zealand strongly supports practical steps to improve peace-keeping management. We have, in fact, provided additional specialist personnel to the Department of Peace-keeping Operations at our own expense. We have contributed to the strengthening of the Secretariat’s capacity in the demining area. And we shall continue these commitments because we believe that they are so necessary. We also entered into the United Nations stand-by arrangements earlier this year, and we hope that these will provide a clearer focus for peace-keeping and its planning. We have also studied with interest the Secretary- General’s recommendation, in his Supplement to “An Agenda for Peace”, that the United Nations should consider the idea of a rapid-deployment force. I wish to commend the ground-breaking work that has already been done by Canada, the Netherlands, Denmark and others. My discussions yesterday with Ministers from these and other countries were encouraging to me. Progress can and should be made in this area. 20 At about this time last year I spoke to the General Assembly about a number of elements that I consider critical to the conduct of peace-keeping operations. These included a sustainable financial system, transparent political accountability, clear objectives, a credible legal regime that guarantees the security of United Nations personnel and, of course, the availability of resources so that objectives can be met quickly and efficiently. Progress has been made. We were especially pleased to see the Convention on the Safety of United Nations Personnel opened for signature during last year’s session. We urge those that have not signed it to do so, and soon. We owe that to the thousands who have served, and are serving, in the United Nations operations worldwide. The improved procedures for consultation between the Security Council and troop contributors, initiated by Argentina and New Zealand, have now been in place for almost a year. Pleasing as this is, we still have some way to go. It is up to those of us who contribute troops to United Nations operations to ensure there is no slippage in these procedures. Regrettably, however, we do not appear to have a sustainable financial system. I am gravely concerned that, despite all the warnings here in this Assembly last year, delegations have not made any real progress in the Working Group addressing the financial crisis. The United Nations — this United Nations — ran out of cash in mid- August. The arrears of Member States in respect of the regular and peace-keeping budgets have reached unprecedented levels. It is nothing short of a tragedy that on the eve of our celebration of the fiftieth anniversary, the United Nations, this body of ours, is on the verge of bankruptcy. At this critical point in the United Nations history, we need political will, not more words. “Words pay no debts”, as Shakespeare wrote. We need new ideas, not recycled platitudes. And, above all, Members must pay their dues, on time, and in full. We do stand here at a crossroads. In taking stock of the United Nations 50 years, we have much on which to reflect. There have been good times, and there have been bad times. Reform and revitalization must stay on our minds. I wish to assure you, Sir, and all other members, of New Zealand’s commitment to help remould the Organization to that which will be needed to work for all of us as we head towards the twenty-first century. I should like to begin by extending to you, Sir, my warmest congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly. This is not merely a recognition of your long experience and your outstanding ability and diplomatic skill, but also a reflection of the esteem in which your country, Portugal, is held in the United Nations. We are certain that under your able guidance the work of this very important session of the General Assembly will be a landmark in the history of the Organization. I should also like to pay a warm tribute to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the determined leadership which he has demonstrated on vital issues and for his reports on the work of the Organization, which have already resulted in the adoption of a series of measures, providing working tools for the activities of the United Nations. Cyprus is particularly grateful to the Secretary-General and his dedicated staff for their untiring efforts to find a just and lasting solution to the question of Cyprus on the basis of United Nations resolutions. In April 1945, when it was obvious that the world was breaking up into two armed camps, delegates from the then independent nations met to create a world organization capable of building an era of peace and international cooperation out of the chaos and conflict of the Second World War. They drafted the United Nations Charter, a document of principles and norms, aimed at effectively dealing with aggression and improving human rights and economic and social conditions for people everywhere. For five decades the spirit of the Charter was kept alive under very difficult circumstances, even when in many cases the United Nations took the blame for the failings of its Member States. It is an indisputable fact that the United Nations, despite its shortcomings, has managed the transforming of colonies into independent countries, restoring democracies and promoting the rule of law. It has also been successful in resolving conflicts in many parts of the world — in Namibia, in Mozambique, in Angola, in Cambodia, in Central America and in the Caribbean — and it has provided the inspiration for the drafting of major arms-control treaties. Its peace-keepers have saved thousands of lives, fed 1 millions of people, and helped to restore a degree of normality in areas of conflict. Equally, it has played an important role in promoting human rights and stimulating economic recovery, monetary stability and growth in the developing world. Furthermore, over the past 50 years there has been a series of United Nations-inspired conferences which dealt with major issues that vitally affect the peoples of the world. More recently, United Nations-sponsored conferences, including the Earth Summit at Rio, the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development, the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development and the Beijing Fourth World Conference on Women, have left their indelible imprint on the history of mankind. On the other hand, there have been reversals — in Rwanda United Nations efforts failed to avert genocide, and in Somalia the tragedy continues. Equally distressing is the unabated bloodshed in the Balkans, while United Nations efforts on the problem of my country are still to bear fruit. Fifty years of existence provide an important opportunity to look back, to reflect on both our successes and failures. But it is also an opportunity to look forward, to determine where we can and should go from here, especially now, when the cold war, now ended, has regrettably generated a wide range of security problems stemming from economic, political or social tensions or issues of nationalism. The complex nature of the challenges calls for multilateral action and an integrated approach. Drawing from the lessons of the past and the challenges of the present, we must open up new ways to use the mechanisms provided originally by the Charter. In this context, the continuing debate on the Agenda for Peace has stimulated new thinking about the particular changes needed to re-equip the United Nations for its role in this field, so as to vindicate the vision of its founders. From this rostrum I have had the opportunity to present in some detail our views on the proposed conceptual orientations. I do not need to stress that my country is fully committed to these goals. The recent history of Cyprus can be seen as a case study, demonstrating the need for such an initiative and the importance of further expanding its concepts. Under the United Nations Charter disarmament and arms control are integral parts of international peace and security. Though for decades progress towards disarmament and arms control was made impossible by the rigidities of bipolarization, the latter’s demise has now opened up new possibilities. In the last two years we have witnessed major achievements, the most important of which was the decision to extend indefinitely and unconditionally the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, along with the strengthening of the review process for the Treaty and the adoption of a set of principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. Furthermore, we will soon be entering into commitments for the conclusion of the comprehensive test-ban treaty and the negotiation of a treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear purposes. These should be seen as products of the momentum which has built up in the disarmament field since the end of the cold war. We share the view that much still needs to be done in the areas of both non-conventional and conventional weapons, for, as long as military threats to security exist, the disarmament and arms-control process will continue to be an essential element of international security. The reduction of forces and armaments alone cannot provide for or guarantee international security, but it can reduce the risk of an outbreak of military conflict and can contribute to confidence-building and conflict resolution. In this context, I would like to remind this body of my proposal for the complete demilitarization of the Republic of Cyprus: the withdrawal of the Turkish occupation forces, the disbanding of the National Guard of Cyprus, the handing over of all its arms and military equipment to the custody of the United Nations Peace-keeping Force and the placing into a United Nations account of all money saved from the purchase of arms, to be used for infrastructure development projects beneficial to both communities. I feel that our proposal reflects not only our good intentions but also the spirit of the times. Unfortunately, it was rejected by Turkey. Genuine security also includes economic well-being, protection of human rights and environmental sustainability. All these dimensions function together, in an interlocking and mutually reinforcing way, as foundations of peace. There is much concern today that the United Nations should have an agenda and working method of direct relevance to the economic and social needs of societies in which individuals or groups are deprived of their freedom or of the basic necessities on which human life depends. Newspapers and television screens air these needs daily. The international community’s ability to offer a decent and secure existence to all its citizens is called into question by the numerous 2 human tragedies, atrocities of war, terrorism, traffic in illegal drugs and long-term ecological degradation of our planet. It is self-evident that global cooperation and effective action is a sine qua non for effectively combating these and other evils tormenting world society. Our most important goal must be the implementation of our existing commitments, as provided for in the Charter. In placing the emphasis on this, we are setting no modest objective. What we should recognize is that the body of principles and commitments which have been built up over the last 50 years cover the full range of civil, political, economic and social issues. Our task should be to reduce the obvious gap between accepted principles and everyday practice, to apply these principles without discrimination and at the same time to consider ways of strengthening further the existing mechanisms. In this context, we must face up to the problem of holding to full account those who flout the authority of the United Nations, persistently refuse to respect the rights of others and choose to disregard the international commitments which they have freely accepted. When I speak of the need to uphold the authority of the United Nations, I feel entitled to use as an example the experience of my country and its people. Since 1974, when Turkish forces invaded Cyprus, 37 per cent of the territory of the Republic has remained under military occupation by Turkey. The Turkish occupation troops, instead of withdrawing after repeated calls by solemn Security Council and General Assembly resolutions, are increasing in number and modernizing their military equipment, thus posing not only a serious threat to the security of our region but also a challenge to the authority of the United Nations. The Secretary-General has stated in his reports to the Security Council that the area of Cyprus under occupation by the Turkish forces is the most militarized area in the world. Another point of particular concern to us is the massive violation of the human rights of the displaced persons who were forcibly evicted from their homes by the Turkish occupation forces and whose homes and property have been usurped by illegal settlers imported from Turkey to Cyprus in an effort to change the demographic composition of our population and colonize the part of Cyprus occupied by the Turkish forces. All these flagrant human rights violations have been committed against my country despite a number of General Assembly and Security Council resolutions calling on all States to respect the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and unity of the Republic of Cyprus and to avoid any actions which could change the demographic structure of the island. Turkey’s defiance extends also to resolutions calling for the withdrawal of foreign forces from the Republic of Cyprus, the return of the refugees to their homes under conditions of safety, the humanitarian issues of the missing persons and the implementation of the third Vienna agreement, regarding the living conditions and welfare of persons in enclaves in areas under the control of the Turkish occupation forces. On this solemn occasion, I wish sincerely to express, on behalf of the people of Cyprus, the Government and myself, deep appreciation for the solidarity offered us by the Assembly. I ask that its most valuable support be reinforced with added emphasis, for it is high time the resolutions of the United Nations on Cyprus were implemented if a just and lasting solution is to be arrived at without further delay. We must remember that failure to uphold international law and respect for human rights in one situation sets a precedent for similar failures elsewhere, with often catastrophic consequences. Recent experiences have demonstrated this all too blatantly. At every turning point in modern history, nations convene to shape a new world order. This is another such historic turning point, and the United Nations is the forum for the world order we must build. We have, I believe, a collective responsibility to understand the nature of the new, post-cold-war role of the United Nations, to continue our effort towards the institutional reforms needed to re- equip the United Nations for its role and to make commitments of the human and financial resources necessary for the United Nations to carry out effectively its mission. We believe that the topics of prime consideration should include the restructuring of the Security Council, the system of international security as provided for in the Charter, the further development and implementation of the basic concepts of An Agenda for Peace and An Agenda for Development and the finances of the United Nations. It is now generally accepted that the Security Council’s membership must be increased so as to become more representative of the Organization’s membership. It is also recognized that it has to improve the effectiveness of its decision-making to deal with the challenges of international security in the future. Openness in its proceedings, democratization in its decision-taking procedures, and broader consultation by the permanent members with non-permanent members and with those 3 outside the Council whose interests are affected by a particular issue before it, will contribute to the effectiveness of this all-important United Nations body. On the other hand, we should ensure that the General Assembly, the universal organ of the United Nations, where the sovereign equality of Member States is democratically depicted, be fully respected and utilized more, if we are to serve well the peoples of the world. It is of paramount importance to recognize that, for peace and stability to be maintained and for democracy to be rooted, economic and social development is indispensable. That is why we welcome the efforts of the United Nations to answer social and economic problems, though the United Nations was created primarily as a political body to address political issues. Today, however, more than ever, we must face social and economic challenges, for it is not enough to bring forth the end of strife and violence. It has been correctly said that if we contain violence but ignore poverty we will sooner or later discover that we have simply traded one misery for another. The historic Middle East accord offers a good example in this respect, where what has been achieved in the course of the peace process should be cemented by the economic support of the international community, thus ensuring a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. Never in the history of mankind has the awareness of interdependence and globalism been so strong as it is today, and never has mankind had so much technological know- how at its disposal. Building upon the accumulation of 50 years of United Nations experience in multilateral relations and the everlasting principles and ideals of the United Nations Charter, we can and must do everything within our power to bequeath to coming generations a better world, where security, democracy, human rights and prosperity prevail and are shared by all. It will doubtless be understood if, before beginning my statement, I express, as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Portugal, the particular satisfaction which I feel in seeing an illustrious fellow countryman, Professor Diogo Freitas do Amaral, an eminent public figure and a professor at my alma mater, the University of Lisbon, presiding over the work of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. Allow me to convey my warmest and fondest congratulations to you, Mr. President, and, at the same time, my gratitude to all Member States for the vote of confidence in Portugal that this represents. I would also like to pay tribute to my colleague from Côte d’Ivoire, Mr. Amara Essy, for the dedicated and competent manner in which he steered the work of the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. To you, Mr. Secretary-General, I reaffirm my admiration for the way in which you have carried out your functions during a period in which the United Nations is increasingly called upon to intervene ever more actively in many fields of international life. In his statement, my Spanish colleague has already set out, in the name of the 15 States of the European Union, certain positions which are also shared by Portugal. Nevertheless, I would like to refer to some matters which are of particular importance to my country. Peace continues to be the primary objective of, and the biggest challenge faced by, the United Nations. The proliferation of peace-keeping operations launched by the Security Council in recent years and the high levels of human and financial resources committed to them are indicative of the commitment and collective efforts of the United Nations system and its Member States. The results achieved in some countries — and I am pleased to refer here to the case of the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ) and the recent developments in the peace process in Angola — are reason enough to indicate that we should not reduce our level of commitment nor the scope of our activities. We should, however, also be flexible and creative, here as elsewhere, in order to avoid the rigidity of models and adapt peace-keeping operations to the specific conditions of each case. While it is true that the United Nations must not abdicate its mission of helping to restore peace, we believe that we should focus our efforts, above all, on the prevention of conflicts. The Agenda for Peace requires effective coordination of the various Departments and agencies of the United Nations system in order to provide an integrated view of the many factors which contribute to the development of crises. In the search for peace, the question of the complementarity between the United Nations and intergovernmental organizations of a regional nature is also particularly relevant. With this in mind, Portugal has actively supported, since the beginning, the creation and implementation of the mechanism for conflict prevention, management and resolution established by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) at the Cairo Summit in 1993. We have also participated in the search for the means which will permit the strengthening and efficacy of those instruments. Along the same lines, while holding the presidency of the Western European Union (WEU) during the first half of this year, Portugal put the issue of conflict prevention on the agenda of that organization and focused the need for WEU to develop support mechanisms in this regard. 23 Also, in the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), where preventive diplomacy is the foundation of its activities, Portugal has contributed so that the Organization can continue to have a decisive role to play in the maintenance of stability in a region which runs from Vancouver to Vladivostok. Alongside the security model for the twenty-first century, this will surely be one of the subjects that will receive in-depth treatment at the next OSCE Summit, which will take place in Lisbon at the end of next year. With regard to disarmament, as another of the components of the efforts in favour of peace, Portugal welcomes the historic decision taken by consensus on 11 May this year in this very Hall to indefinitely extend the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Also encouraging is the progress obtained at the Disarmament Conference, especially with regard to the increased expectations of rapidly completing a comprehensive test ban Treaty. The results of the high-level meeting, held last July, that resulted in donations towards a voluntary United Nations fund for de-mining should also be stressed here. In that context, Portugal announced that it would be making a bilateral contribution. Equally, I welcome the negotiations currently under way in Vienna for the revision of the United Nations Convention on Conventional Weapons. The enlargement of the Disarmament Conference is urgently required, keeping in mind the need for a strengthening of the negotiation of international legal instruments, as well as their observance by an increasing number of States. There can be no peace in the world while large sections of the world’s population continue to live beneath levels considered fundamental for human dignity. Integrated and sustainable development, focused on people, is therefore the other great challenge which cannot be separated from the search for peace. The Agenda for Development and the Agenda for Peace constitute a single unit — one makes no sense, nor can it be achieved, without the other. In this context, it is necessary to recognize the need to revise the entire system of international development aid, and to reflect on the role that, in this area, should fall to the United Nations. Ours should be a global and coherent vision. The integrated and sustainable development which we desire must be pursued on all fronts: at the economic level, to be sure, but also in the consolidation and deepening of democratic institutions; in the promotion of human rights across the board; in the increasing participation of women in the most diverse sectors of social and political life; in the defence of the rights of children, ethnic minorities and all underprivileged members of society; in humanitarian assistance; and in the protection of the environment. To achieve all these goals, we must implement the decisions taken at major United Nations conferences, for it is at these conferences — those of Rio de Janeiro, Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing, as well as the forthcoming conference in Istanbul next year — that the “Agenda for Development” gradually takes shape. Non-governmental organizations, as well as other groups through which the vitality of civil society is demonstrated, are privileged agents in aid and development, and are our partners in the “Agenda for Development”. This is due to their particular capacity of penetration in the field, of making contact with the people and of understanding their real needs. Of all areas of development, there are two in particular to which I would like now to turn: the protection and promotion of human rights, and the importance of the environment. The protection and promotion of human rights is a constant priority of Portuguese foreign policy. We continue to believe in the importance of critical dialogue in order to reach the fundamental objective of respect for those rights, and we are following the activities of the High Commissioner and the Centre for Human Rights. The fact that protection of the environment is inextricably linked to the notion of balanced development has led it to gain an increasing relevancy in our foreign policy concerns. In this context, I wish to refer in particular to the oceans, especially with regard to the development of a balanced management of fish stocks and marine resources. As Portugal’s territory includes two archipelagos — the Azores and Madeira — I would like to stress our 24 particular sensitivity to the problems faced by small island States in development and environmental issues. Furthermore, I express my hope that the International Year of the Oceans, a Portuguese initiative adopted by the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, will provide an urgently needed opportunity for a full debate on these questions. We will strive in that direction and hope that the holding in the same year in Lisbon of Expo 98 — an exposition on that subject — will result in a fruitful coordination of these efforts. The legislative activity of the United Nations in maintaining the ecological balance and the management of international waterways is of special importance. Portugal intends to follow with particular interest the work on this issue that is being undertaken by the International Law Commission. We hope that in the near future a convention on this matter will be adopted which would include international norms of responsibility — applicable under domestic or international jurisdiction. In the context of an “agenda for development”, I would like once again, to underline my personal conviction and the position of Portugal that Africa must quite obviously be one of the priorities of the international community. We were therefore pleased to welcome the announcement made by the Secretary-General in Lisbon concerning the launching of the “United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s”. The forthcoming conference for the Great Lakes region, convened under the sponsorship of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) to address the tragic situation of a number of countries of that region, will certainly constitute a test of the true commitment of the international community to the African continent: a test of the capacity to identify the objectives of peace and development; a test of the much-needed complementarity between the United Nations and regional organizations. Despite the persistence of disturbing cases of political and social instability in a number of countries of the continent, as well as, of course, the open conflicts and serious violations of human rights which still continue, it is only fair to recognize that in many African States significant steps have been taken towards the peaceful settlement of conflicts and the consolidation of the processes of political and social democratization. I am pleased to be able to say that the majority of these processes were carried out under the aegis of the United Nations, and Portugal is proud to have actively participated in a number of them: in the international structures of support to the process of democratic transition in South Africa; in the negotiations which led to the Peace Accord in Mozambique, having been represented in all the commissions created by that Accord and in the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ); and as part of the troika of observers of the peace process in Angola. With this process in mind, I hope that, following the meetings held at Lusaka, Franceville, and now Brussels, between the President of the Republic of Angola and the leader of UNITA, steps will continue to be taken towards a definitive reconciliation of the Angolan family while strictly complying with the Lusaka Protocol, which restores the spirit of the Bicesse Agreement signed in Portugal in 1991. It is equally important, keeping in mind Security Council resolution 1008 (1995), Lusaka Protocol be adequately encouraged by the international community. I cannot fail, therefore, to express my concern over the delay in the deployment to Angola of all the forces and contingents of the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III), where Portugal is already present with a communications and logistics unit, as well as a number of staff officers in the command structure and civilian, military and police observers. The tragic human suffering and the terrible material destruction brought about by more than 20 years of conflict also require that the international community — following the round table on Angola being held in Brussels under the auspices of the United Nations Development Programme — continues to respond generously to the humanitarian aid needs and the challenge of reconstructing the country, particularly in the areas of demining and the social reintegration of the displaced and the demobilized. The New Agenda for Africa is pressing. It should lead to the promotion of vast integrated programmes of development aid which would coordinate, in the most efficient manner possible, the resources of the international community. It should seek to support and encourage African countries to choose the path of peace, political democracy, stability and social justice, respect for human rights and economic development. 25 The strengthening of the ties which link Portugal to the five Portuguese speaking countries is and shall remain a constant goal of my country’s foreign policy. While talking of the ties that unite the countries that speak Portuguese, I wish to underline the importance of the meeting which, last July in Lisbon, brought together the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Portugal, and Sao Tome and Principe. That meeting permitted the reaffirmation of purpose which motivates those respective Governments with regard to the institutionalization of the community of Portuguese speaking countries. We hope that this next year will witness the formalization of this community, which, to all intents and purposes, already exists in the hearts and souls of its peoples and has become more and more concrete in many ways. At a time such as this, when we are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and assessing its successes and its failures, we cannot but, unfortunately, include the question of East Timor among the latter. The 20 years which have passed since the illegal occupation of East Timor and the denial of the exercise of the right to self-determination of its people, far from allowing the question to be forgotten and the status quo to be consolidated have, on the contrary, worsened the tensions and focused ever more strongly the attention of world public opinion. The lesson of these last 20 years has been that force solves nothing in East Timor nor will it ever resolve anything. Without a solution which, in conformity with the Charter and international law, takes into account the legitimate rights of its people, including that of freely expressing themselves on their political future, there will be no peace or respect for human rights in East Timor. I wish to reiterate here the commitment of Portugal towards finding, through peaceful and negotiated means, such a solution. With that aim in mind, we continue to cooperate with the Secretary-General in the process of dialogue which, under his auspices, we have maintained with Indonesia. Despite the fundamental difference which continues to separate us on the core of the problem, we believe that the process of dialogue, with all its difficulties, registered very significant progress: representative Timorese personalities from various political sectors have now become associated with this process. We have always held that the rights and primary interests at stake in this question are those of the Timorese people, and that their voice and their wishes will have to be heard in order for a solution to be found. I sincerely hope that this first step marks the beginning of a new, more positive and constructive phase of the process of dialogue concerning East Timor, one which will lead us more quickly to the end of this tragic situation. I turn now to Europe. The situation in the former Yugoslavia continues to be a principal motive of concern. We are naturally encouraged by the results obtained at the Ministerial meeting held in Geneva on 8 September, congratulate the members of the Contact Group for obtaining those results and hope that the meeting being held here today in New York will drive the process forward. At any rate, the consolidation of the results still depends on keeping the international community united, on the cohesion of the Contact Group, and on close coordination of the initiatives and actions taken by international organizations. Portugal will continue to participate actively in these efforts and we shall maintain our presence on the ground while it remains useful and necessary. In its relationship with Latin America, Portugal has, as is well known, very strong human, historical and cultural ties: with Brazil, for reasons known to all, but also with the other countries of Latin America, with which we are seeking an ever-closer relationship. Ties with Latin America will always occupy an important place in Portuguese foreign policy. This is made clear by our active participation in the Ibero-American Summits of Heads of State and Government. We welcome the fact that Latin America is today clearly giving new value to its role in the international system. Portugal resolutely supports the projects for regional Latin American integration and, as a member of the European Union, favours the establishment of wide agreements with institutions of regional integration — namely, the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUL) and other processes of integration under way on the American continent. I am referring also to the consolidation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the future establishment of a free-trade area in the Americas. 26 Portugal, both bilaterally and within the framework of a number of organizations such as the European Union, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Western European Union, has promoted the strengthening and deepening of ties with the countries of the Maghreb, a region of fundamental importance today for the security, stability and development of the entire Mediterranean area. Therefore, a number of European Councils, beginning with that of Lisbon, have detailed new ideas and new instruments of partnership that relate to a number of areas and that will bring closer together the two shores of the Mediterranean; they will be decided upon at the forthcoming Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Barcelona in November. Portugal continues to follow closely the progress reached in the Middle East peace process, especially as regards the negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians. We must pay tribute here to the courage with which both sides have pursued the path of peace; they have frequently encountered obstacles — sometimes tragic ones — but they have not remained hostage to them. Proof of this is the important accord to be solemnly signed in Washington in just a few days. I hope that this atmosphere of dialogue will also be consolidated among the other parties. Portugal, both within the European Union and bilaterally, has contributed to the assistance for the Palestinian people and for the support of its structures. Turning to Asia, I must first mention with satisfaction that, as a result of the close cooperation between Portugal and China and in full respect for the joint declaration between those two countries, the process of Macau’s transition continues to be carried out in a harmonious manner. The common objective of both countries in this process remains constant: to guarantee the stability and prosperity of that territory and the maintenance of its special characteristics, in the framework of the transfer of administration in December 1999. Portugal recognizes the increasing importance that the Asian continent is assuming on the international stage. My country feels that it has profound historical and cultural ties to that region. In this context, my Government hopes that the meeting planned for next March in Bangkok will constitute a significant step towards an ever-more-open and wider dialogue on all questions of mutual interest to the European Union and Asia. To achieve the fundamental and primary goals of peace and development, and to face the situations I have referred to, the Organization must undertake a realistic exercise of self- examination. It is, above all, essential for the Organization to have a sound financial foundation. I do not believe I am exaggerating by stating that we are in the midst of a crisis that is without precedent and that, if not promptly and bravely addressed, will surely lead the Organization to rupture. At this point, two stages appear available to us in the search for a solution: strict payment in full and on time of our obligations; the need for corrections which will permit a reduction of expenses or their fairer distribution amongst us. With regard to the first point, I cannot avoid criticizing the attempts to renege on commitments which have already been made, by consensus. How can an expense be adopted by consensus but its payment refused? What kind of credibility can then be expected in what concerns international commitments? As to the second aspect, reforms are necessary that will reflect each State’s capacity to pay and the alterations to that capacity. In this spirit, my Government, responding to an appeal made by the Secretary-General, took the initiative earlier this year to increase voluntarily its contributions to the peace-keeping budget. Thus we have moved from group C to group B on the scale of assessments. The decision will mean a five-fold increase in our initial contributions. We took this decision because we consider that it is a step in the right direction in what concerns the financial reform of the Organization. We took this decision to express our commitment to the importance and success of the work of this Organization. We took this decision because we knew this increase might benefit other countries that are experiencing temporary difficulties. We hope that our move will be followed by other States whose economic situation has, like Portugal’s, improved in recent years. It is not merely in the financial area that the United Nations must contemplate reform. Equally important is the reform of the Security Council, which must in the near future reflect the political, economic and demographic realities of the contemporary world. In this context, an adequate and balanced representation of all regions of the world would confer on the Council greater efficacy in the formulation and implementation of its decisions and would make it the beneficiary of wide support from all Member States, which would, in this 27 manner, feel duly represented on it. It is undoubtedly a complex process, an evolutionary one, in which differences remain profound and which will necessarily be based on a compromise solution. I cannot conclude without reaffirming here the candidature of Portugal for one of the two non-permanent seats on the Security Council attributed to the Western European Group for the period 1996 through 1997. Our candidature is based on a number of reasons. First, because we believe, as a country with a universalist nature accustomed to contact with all regions of the globe for more than five centuries and to understanding and accepting different cultures and civilizations, that we will be able to contribute to the search for solutions in strict compliance with the purposes and principles set out in the Charter of the United Nations. Secondly, having been only once before a member of the Security Council, we understand that countries like Portugal have not only the right, but also the duty, to participate in that body more regularly. In this context, I would like to underline here the situation of countries like Portugal — in fact, the majority of those represented here — that, based on democratic principles such as that of rotation, can, wish to, and should be able to, contribute to international peace and security. And this they can do in a particularly constructive manner, as, by not pursuing geo-strategic interests of hegemonic regional promotion or of any other type, they can, on the contrary, contribute by being accessible, available and moderate in the search for compromise solutions. On the other hand, through our participation in peace- keeping operations, our voluntary increase of our financial contributions to the Organization, our participation in important United Nations organs, we consider that we are ready to carry out the role which we may be called upon to play. We are ready to listen and not to impose. We place our trust in negotiation and not on pressure; we support what is fair and balanced, and do not consider any formula which does not seek to build bridges for the creation of consensus solutions. In candidatures such as this, to achieve the goals set out, some are tempted to adopt attitudes which are of great visibility, but which are of a merely superficial nature. Others are tempted also to promise that which is quickly forgotten, or even to make commitments which in the end are unfulfilled. On our part, we prefer to rely on the inherent merits of our candidature and, in this context, to actively pursue in a committed manner, the defence of our positions, ideas and proposals. We believe, therefore, in the support and warm welcome that the candidature of Portugal for the Security Council will receive in the elections to take place during the next session of the General Assembly. Next month we will celebrate at the highest level, in a solemn session, the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, which will provide an opportunity for reflection on the future of this Organization. Portugal hopes that a strengthened determination of all Member States will emerge to reaffirm the principles and values of the Charter and result in the better adaption of the Organization to the complex realities of international life today. This is certainly a great challenge. New generations hope that we will be able to face these responsibilities. Allow me to begin by congratulating the President on his election at this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. On behalf of the Estonian people, I wish him all the best this year. Fifty years ago this body met for the first time in an effort to unite the community of nations to avoid a repetition of the carnage we saw in the Second World War. For my country, that war finally ended just last year, with the withdrawal of foreign troops from our territory. I am happy to note that tomorrow the final remnant of occupation, in the form of the former Soviet nuclear-submarine training facility at Paldiski, will be turned over to Estonian authorities by Russian civilian dismantling specialists. I take this opportunity to acknowledge Estonia’s satisfaction with the Russian Federation’s having fulfilled its commitment in this regard, as mandated by the agreement signed by Russia and Estonia on 30 July 1994. Turning to the work of the United Nations, the declarations and decisions produced by recent international conferences must be integrated into the work of the United Nations as a whole. Estonia places particular importance upon the implementation of Agenda 21 and the Vienna Declaration. We welcome the extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and look forward to a successful conclusion of negotiations regarding a universal and verifiable comprehensive test-ban treaty. The importance of these and other recently concluded international agreements must be underscored through implementation. There are a number of ways through which the United Nations can improve its performance. One of the most extensive ways in which Member States relate to the United Nations system is by way of the activities of various United Nations agencies and programmes. For this reason, reform of the Economic and Social Council is crucial and should be addressed in earnest. Member States should have greater opportunities to ensure that United Nations resources are used in an effective and efficient manner. I am referring not to a need for the micromanagement of agencies, programmes and projects, but, rather, to participation in agency, programme and project activities. I would like to single out and commend the work of the Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) and other regional commissions. The ECE has worked diligently to provide practical and needed support for the integration of countries with diverse histories into a cohesive regional whole. As part of continuing United Nations reform, Estonia once again urges greater cooperation between the ECE and the United Nations Development Programme. Any discussion of United Nations reform must include the composition and functioning of the Security Council. Estonia welcomes the report of the Open-ended Working Group on Security Council reform, which, among other practical suggestions, calls for developing 31 greater transparency and the inclusion of more Member States in decision making. Within the context of continuing debate over Security Council reform, we reiterate our support for an expanded and more effective Security Council. In the 40 years from 1948 to 1988, the United Nations deployed 13 peace-keeping operations. In the seven years from 1988 to the present, 16 operations were begun, of which a significant number still continue. There are many systemic reasons for such a dramatic increase in peace- keeping operations, and the issues of both peace-keeping and peacemaking call for further detailed examination. Regional peace-keeping efforts that are conducted under the auspices of the United Nations must remain under stringent United Nations control. The Security Council, in turn, must carefully define and monitor any mandates granted to regional efforts and must resist attempts by groups of States or individual countries to wrest authority for such actions. Only in this way can the United Nations ensure compliance with the principles of multilateralism and impartiality in order to conduct peace-keeping operations that are not only effective, but also politically neutral. Estonia is proud to be taking part in peace-keeping efforts. Through generous support, especially that of the Danish Government, Estonian peace-keepers, for the first time ever, took part in United Nations peace-keeping operations. Having participated in the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), and now the United Nations Confidence Restoration Operation in Croatia (UNCRO), we look forward to expanding our role in United Nations peace-keeping activities. I am gratified to support the working arrangement between the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in the former Yugoslavia. Estonia regards the United Nations-mandated NATO air strikes in recent weeks in Bosnia as an unfortunate but necessary means of bringing about an end to the fighting which is still taking place there. Recent cooperation between the United Nations and NATO shows that despite the inherent difficulties in supporting peace in the former Yugoslavia, differences can be overcome and a joint approach to peace- keeping can be agreed upon. We view this cooperation as a harbinger of greater effectiveness in future United Nations peace-keeping efforts. An area to which Estonia attaches particular importance is the work of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mr. José Ayala Lasso, and the Centre for Human Rights in Geneva. In keeping with its open-door policy towards the work of human rights groups, Estonia welcomes and supports the work done by the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights. We believe that information about the work of the Commissioner and the Centre should be made available to a wider audience through more frequent publication of the results of investigations. This would help ensure that the efforts of partisan political concerns that tend to rely on inaccurate information will be countered by factual, impartial reporting of the sort that Mr. Ayala Lasso and the Centre provide. During this United Nations fiftieth anniversary year, it is important for every Member State to affirm its financial commitment to the United Nations. Estonia, for its part, supports recent changes to the methodology used to calculate assessments, changes which have led to reduced distortions and affirmation of capacity to pay as the primary, transparent and universally applied criteria by which assessments are calculated. Agreed upon regular budget assessments and peacekeeping dues are collective responsibilities for the functioning of the United Nations, and should be put ahead of individual partisan interests. We face new challenges on this, the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. I wish all of us the best in meeting those challenges, so that the next 50 years may be even more constructive than the last. At the outset allow me, on behalf of my country’s delegation, to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of this important session of the General Assembly. His unanimous election to this high office attests to the role that his friendly country, Portugal, with which my country has enjoyed centuries of ties, plays in the international arena. His election is also testimony to his ability and wide diplomatic experience which, we are sure, will enable the General Assembly to achieve the results we hope for. I should also like to take this opportunity to pay special tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, the Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, for the skill and constructive manner in which he steered the work of the forty-ninth session. The convening of this session coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the international community’s agreement to establish the United Nations in order to safeguard international peace and security after the experience of two world wars. We are aware of the significant role that the United Nations has played ever since the end of the Second World War in maintaining the balance between the world Powers during what was known as the cold war era. That outstanding role of the United Nations was at the heart of the international cooperation that was given concrete form in enabling the peoples of the third world, with the help of the United Nations, to free themselves from the shackles of colonialism in Africa, Asia and South America. The United Nations bodies and specialized agencies helped the newly independent States to organize their socio-economic resources thanks to the persistent efforts of the Secretaries-General who headed the Secretariat and the respective Executive Secretaries of the specialized agencies. Here it is only fitting to remember Mr. Dag Hammarskjöld, the Organization’s second Secretary-General, who gave his life while working on behalf of the United Nations in the Congo in 1961. We should also remember those who were at the helm of the Secretariat beside Mr. Hammarskjöld — Mr. Trygve Lie, the first Secretary-General, U Thant, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, Mr. Jávier Perez de Cuéllar and the current Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali — who have all played a significant role in strengthening mutual understanding amongst nations and helped the world to find peaceful solutions to its conflicts. The history of the United Nations is full of many other figures who played an important role in promoting its march and in serving international peace and security. By way of example I mention Count Bernadotte, the International Peace Mediator in Palestine; General Burns, the Commander of the International Emergency Force in the Middle East; Mr. Gunnar Jarring, the International Peace Mediator between the Arabs and Israelis after the war of 1967; Mr. James Grant, the late Executive Director of the United Nations Children’s Fund; Sadruddin Aga Khan, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for many years; the late Olaf Palme, former Prime Minister of Sweden; the late Willy Brandt, former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany; Mr. Brian Urquhart, the former Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs; and many other brilliant figures who worked tirelessly and faithfully in these corridors. We should also like to mention in particular the great achievements of the United Nations in the framework of its specialized agencies. Nobody can deny the achievements of these agencies in their respective fields of competence such as food and agriculture, science and education, civil aviation, architecture, reconstruction, health, postal services and telecommunications, meteorology, intellectual property, development, the liberalization of trade, not to mention the brilliant achievements of the humanitarian and development organizations such as the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) as well as the remarkable role played by the other relevant regional organizations and committees within the framework of the United Nations. These achievements constitute part of the rich assets accumulated by the United Nations over the 50 years that have elapsed since it was established with the aim of maintaining international peace and security. We believe 18 that although the Organization has come a long way in laying the foundations of international peace and security, global peace in its broadest sense has yet to be achieved. Therefore, it is incumbent upon us all to support the United Nations in its forward movement in that direction so that the edifice of peace and international security may be completed and maintained. The establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO) with the aim of organizing and coordinating world trade, eliminating the obstacles that obstruct access to foreign markets and encouraging the movement of capital and investment is another milestone on the way towards consolidating the edifice of international peace and security. The WTO should receive every support from the international community. The agreement on its establishment under the auspices of the United Nations should be an incentive and a challenge to the developing countries to promote the level of their economic and social development, increase their productive capacity and upgrade the level of their services in order for them to qualify to integrate their interests with those of the developed countries. By the same token, the establishment of the WTO with the aim of achieving international economic balance on a basis of justice, equality and sustainable development, in no way remits the developed countries’ obligations towards supporting and assisting the developing countries in working for that integration of their economies with the economies of the developed countries. As a matter of fact, those obligations are stipulated in the WTO agreement. In the context of the United Nations action to consolidate the foundations of international peace and security, the Organization has managed, after 14 years of strenuous efforts, to conclude the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in 1982. The entry into force of that Convention on 16 November 1994 is but another example of international cooperation in order to establish an equitable, just international order to govern the ocean space. Also, the recent efforts in this context with regard to Part XI of this important international Convention will no doubt enhance its universality. In the area of disarmament, the United Nations has performed an outstanding role, even at the height of the cold war, as evinced by the signing of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). The signing by more than 159 States of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction is yet another historic United Nations achievement. The Convention was the first to deal with the elimination of this category of overkill weapons on a global scale. It paved the way for agreement on the elimination of all other weapons of mass destruction. As regards the protection of the environment, the international community has witnessed the dedication of world leaders at the 1992 Rio Conference to the task of halting the degradation of the environment. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Convention on Biological Diversity and Agenda 21 that resulted from this unique Conference have laid the foundations of a world partnership that addresses the problems of desertification, poverty and the degradation of the ecosystem which arise from the unrestrained use of natural resources. All these conventions and programmes have gone on the record book as uncontested achievements accomplished by the United Nations. Such achievements apart, however, the United Nations has proved to be unable to cope with regional political issues that have international dimensions and are closely related to risks that could jeopardize international peace and security. When the cold war ended, regional problems erupted on the heels of each other and faced the United Nations and regional organizations alike with a real challenge. With regard to the Middle East question, which we believe to be one of the most significant issues that concern the world at large, an important breakthrough has taken place on 28 September 1995, when the Israeli and Palestinian sides signed an historic accord in Washington D.C. that provides for the expansion of Palestinian self- rule. While we commend the accord, we voice the hope that it will enable the Palestinian people to achieve the objective of extending its authority over its own land and of building its national entity. My country also hopes that the progress achieved on the Palestinian-Israeli track will lead to the activation of the Syrian-Israeli and the Lebanese-Israeli tracks. Lack of progress on those two tracks is a negative signal that does not serve the interests of a just and comprehensive peace. If such peace is to be achieved, we believe that the negotiators on all sides have to put behind them all the residual suspicions and political negativism of the past, free their political will and look at the present with a futuristic vision of a world that no longer knows geographical boundaries thanks to the technological progress we now witness in every aspect of life. 19 In Iraq, the Iraqi Government has yet to respond to all the requirements of the relevant Security Council resolutions so as to allow the lifting of the embargo imposed by the United Nations on Iraq. We, in common with others, were greatly surprised at the serious, important information disclosed recently by the Iraqi Government regarding its programme of weapons of mass destruction. Regardless of the reasons that led Iraq not to disclose these programmes in the past, the confidence of the international community in Iraq has been dealt a severe blow because Iraq had concealed this information in spite of the requests from the Special Commission. In the light of these new developments which necessitate the continuation of the work of the Special Commission for a long time to come, my country appeals to the international community to double its efforts towards mitigating the suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq. By the same token, Iraq is required, now more than ever before, to reconsider its rejection of Security Council resolution 986 (1995) which, in our view, provides Iraq with a good opportunity to reduce some of the suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq. We call on Iraq once again seriously to provide all the information and means still in its possession to the Special Commission. We hope that Iraq’s compliance and cooperation in this matter will give the United Nations access to the crucial information regarding the Iraqi programmes on weapons of mass destruction and pave the way towards the eventual lifting of the embargo from which the Iraqi people have endured record suffering over the past five years. In the context of Iraq’s commitment to Security Council resolutions, in particular resolution 686 (1991), we call on the Iraqi Government to cooperate further with the tripartite Committee that deals with the question of Kuwaiti detainees and the expatriates of other countries detained in Iraq, and to provide the said committee with detailed information on those detainees. Any progress made in this direction will be viewed as a demonstration of the good intentions of Iraq and its desire to cooperate with other States. In Somalia, despite the persistent efforts of the United Nations and other regional organizations, the situation in that country gives no cause for optimism due to the total disregard some Somali leaderships show towards the interests of the brotherly people of Somalia. In Afghanistan, although the United Nations has deployed and continues to deploy special efforts to restore peace to this war-ravaged country, there is no abatement of the hostilities and bloodshed caused by the strife of the different factions in that country. On the other hand, we view with optimism the progress achieved in the peace processes undertaken by the United Nations in Angola, Mozambique, and Liberia, and call upon the international community to deploy all possible efforts towards the mitigation of the suffering of the people of Rwanda who continue to be in the grip of ethnic and political conflicts between the warring factions in their country. In the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, despite the United Nations and the commendable efforts of its peace-keeping forces to halt the bloodshed in this fledgling republic in the heart of Europe, the insurrection of the Bosnian Serbs and their continued defiance of the international community have resulted in frustrating all those concerted efforts. The recent events in Krajina and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) air raids on Serbian positions have restored a certain degree of balance between Bosnia and the Serbs who seem to understand nothing but the logic of force. This has shown the validity of the logical call to enable the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to exercise its legitimate right to self-defence. In this connection, obviously, the Agreement of Principle signed under the supervision of the Contract Group at Geneva on 3 September 1995 by the Foreign Ministers of the Republics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and the former Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) constitutes a significant step towards peace. However, it is the duty of the international community to exert great efforts to overcome the difficulties facing the United Nations and to ensure that the principles agreed on are translated into lasting peace in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no doubt that such regional issues face the United Nations with a real challenge and pose serious threats to international peace and security. In addition, they have created human tragedies as a result of such atrocities as “ethnic cleansing” and the horrors of famine and mass killings, not to mention the heavy financial burden they have put on the resources of the world economy and on the people who have fallen victim to the atrocities. In the light of all this, how can the United Nations face up to all these responsibilities at a time when its ability to deploy efforts is receding because of the over-bureaucratization of its various organs and failure by many Member States to honour their financial obligations? The situation is complex, but it is one that 20 can be dealt with by restructuring United Nations organs in a more cost-effective manner so that the goals set may be achieved over the short-, medium- and long-term in consonance with basic objectives so that the Organization may enter the coming century equipped with firm instructions to make international peace and security the basic underpinnings of social and economic development. With regard to the Security Council, my country feels that while preserving the tasks entrusted to it, we must also find an effective mechanism to enable the General Assembly to make an effective contribution in dealing with crucial international issues so that all Member States may participate in implementing United Nations resolutions and programmes in line with the provisions of the Charter, in the interests of international peace and security as well as economic and social development. Proceeding from this, my delegation calls upon the international community to support the efforts of the United Nations as the principal body entrusted with addressing various crucial questions throughout the world. Those are our policies at all levels. At the regional level, my country seeks to build bridges of dialogue and cooperation between all countries in the belief that this serves the interests of international peace and security. We also seek to encourage and support all regional and international groupings in the same spirit and with the same goals in view. At the national level, my country deeply believes that the maintenance of regional and international peace provides the most important means of implementing our national economic and social plans. With God’s will, we have managed to settle with our neighbours the problems regarding our borders, which has afforded us a golden opportunity to channel our national capabilities towards the implementation of our ambitious national economic and social programmes. Benefiting from the past wealth of economic experience and in pursuit of the economic objective Oman charted 25 years ago, my Government, with the assistance of such international bodies as the World Bank and other economic experts, organized a conference on the future perspectives of the Omani economy by the year 2020, which was held at Muscat, the capital, on 3 and 4 June 1995. With the participation of a broad segment of the public and private sectors of Omani society and a select number of international organizations and world economic figures, that conference laid out the basic lines of the Omani strategy for future Omani development, among which are the development of human resources, the promotion of women’s participation therein, the development of the private sector so that it may become the driving force of the national economy, the encouragement of economic diversity, the encouragement of a suitable economic balance between the economy of Oman and the rest of the world and the conservation of the environment and its exploitation for peaceful purposes. My Government’s peaceful endeavour to implement those strategies represents the best means by which my country will enter the next century on a solid basis, that would enable the Omani people to expand their economic resources and benefit from the technological progress we feel will govern the world economy and all its means of production and marketing. This option, with regard to the means of national development, will surely serve the cause of peace and security. God willing, we look forward to a future filled with promise for our future generations. I congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his assumption of the presidency of the fiftieth regular session of the United Nations General Assembly. We note his laudable accomplishments in the diplomatic service of his country, and feel assured that through his stewardship of this historic session a new paradigm will emerge to direct intercourse among nations of the world. I also wish to convey the appreciation of the Liberian delegation to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, a distinguished son of Africa, for the skilful manner in which he conducted the work of the forty-ninth session. We commend our able and renowned Secretary- General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his unrelenting devotion to charting a new course for the United Nations, in spite of formidable odds. Moreover, we are particularly pleased with the fervent attention that he continues to give to a peaceful resolution of the Liberian civil conflict, as well as to the post-war reconstruction of Liberia. I stand before this body in celebration of the larger freedom that is personified in the survival and success of the United Nations and my country, Liberia. Both were born out of the visions of individuals who dared to stand on higher ground, while others wallowed in fear, hatred, racism, doubts and dismay. Half a century ago my country was proud to be one of three African nations among the 51 States that assembled in San Francisco, California, to participate in the creation of the United Nations, culminating in the signing of its Charter. The United Nations was born because “We the peoples” from diverse cultural backgrounds, represented by our Governments, “determined ... to reaffirm [our] faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small”. To demonstrate our commitment to these fundamental rights, the principle of sovereign equality was enshrined in the Charter of the Organization and later buttressed, in 1948, by the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. One and a quarter centuries before the birth of the United Nations, we the people, from diverse cultural backgrounds represented by individuals and organizations which believed in the larger freedom as a measure of man’s dignity and greatness, gave birth to the Liberian nation in times perhaps more vexing and troubling than the birth period of our United Nations. But we the people, determined to escape the degradation to which we were exposed by the denial of the universality of human rights and the commonality of human nature, fled to freedom in pursuit of the very principles for which this Organization stands. We ought to celebrate the survival and success of the United Nations and my country, Liberia. Symbolically, they represent the higher nature of man, which compels him to acknowledge that no human being is inferior or superior to another. Just as a man’s life “consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth”, (The Holy Bible, Luke 12:15) the greatness of any people or nation is not measured in the abundance of things which they possess. 8 The survival and success of the United Nations for half a century have destroyed the myth that it is Utopian to organize sovereign nations on a global level in the pursuit of international peace and security. Liberia’s survival as an independent State since 1847 also destroyed the myth that Africans were incapable of self-governance. As one of the three African founding Members of the United Nations, Liberia’s independence and involvement in international affairs served as a beacon of hope for peoples of African descent engaged in their legitimate struggle against colonial domination. It lent diplomatic and moral support to the decolonization of Africa and other regions of the world and forcefully voiced its opposition to apartheid in South Africa. As more nations of Africa became independent, Liberia offered them a hand of friendship, brotherhood and solidarity. In particular, Liberia adopted and pursued a policy of peaceful coexistence with its neighbours and was a principal advocate of a functional approach to African unity. This led to the formation of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and other entities fostering economic cooperation between the African peoples. In this connection, my delegation is immensely pleased to celebrate the practical actualization of the vision of three distinguished sons of Africa — Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana, Ahmed Sékou Touré of Guinea and William V. S. Tubman of Liberia — as we note that an independent Africa is observing and actively participating in the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. The fiftieth regular session of the General Assembly is convening against the backdrop of tremendous changes in the international system. The peace euphoria which was inspired by the end of the super-Power confrontation has long dissipated and the world is far from being a peaceful and just place. Simmering inter-State disputes, violent civil conflicts and resurgent nationalism, carried to the extreme, have led to the disintegration of several States and threatened international peace and security. The unfavourable consequences of this situation are the loss of many innocent lives and massive refugee flows, particularly in Africa. Unfortunately, my country, Liberia, has not been spared from this onslaught. The Liberian peace process must be viewed in the totality of Liberia’s history. From the Declaration of Independence in 1847 to the present, the Republic of Liberia has been besieged and buffeted by internal and external forces which hold diametrically opposing views relating to the universality of human rights and the commonality of human nature, as well as to the appropriateness of political and economic utilitarianism, where powerful external forces — Governments, multinational corporations, international organizations and so on — manipulate and exploit human and material resources in Liberia to the detriment of the country. This is a reality that cannot be wished away. Although these views may be based solely on ignorance, it is this same ignorance which fuels the fire of war and destruction around the world, manifesting itself as racism, “ethnic cleansing”, tribalism, religious persecution and so on. Thus, for those who believe that the African is less than human or is incapable of governing himself, the existence for almost a century and a half of a politically stable and peaceful Liberia with strong economic potential is undesirable. Liberia, which was founded — about half a century before the Berlin Congress of 1884, which carved out Africa and institutionalized colonialism — as “an asylum for free people of colour” fleeing the hot crucibles and bitter pangs of slavery, was threatened with partition and trusteeship by the League of Nations, predecessor to our beloved United Nations, half a century after that colonial Congress. Ironically, the charge was slave trading. Although the Liberian Government was grievously at fault, and while we roundly condemn slavery of any kind, that attempt by the League of Nations to undermine Liberia’s sovereignty was a sinister, hypocritical subterfuge whose only purpose was to perpetuate a racist myth rooted in a very destructive ignorance. This was not in the best interests of Liberia or Africa, for no nation, international organization or earthly Power can will Liberia out of existence. Roughly half a century after this unsuccessful attempt by the League of Nations, Liberia experienced the bloody overthrow of its constitutional Government. The political-legal structure had become too rigid and insensitive to the cries of the overwhelming majority of the people, who wanted to be included in the social, political and economic structures of the country. The erstwhile experienced leaders failed to provide the required navigational changes. The execution of these political leaders, who had navigated the ship of State in turbulent times, and the first imposition of military rule affected more than 13 decades of political stability. The attendant dislocations in our national fabric culminated in the civil war that brings us here today. 9 Over the past six years, our country has been at war with itself, trying to right injustices among the people of Liberia while maintaining the sovereignty of the nation, including the right to determine our own destiny. To some on the outside, this war has appeared very senseless — and it may be so in the sense that most wars are senseless. On the other hand, we believe that we will emerge out of this as a stronger and more united people in a nation where we will regard ourselves as human beings first and foremost and where the national identity will take precedence over tribal or ethnic identity. Thus, our efforts to seek peace when agreements are broken should be lauded instead of ridiculed. This reflects our history as a peace-loving nation. We cannot apologize for desiring peace more than war. The Abuja Agreement will hold and usher in a new dawn for Liberia; but even if it did not hold, we would still pursue peace, ignore those who prefer war to peace and strike another deal for peace and democracy. We are optimistic and will not give up on ourselves. We ask the Assembly not to give up on us. We have consistently maintained over the course of this war that a military solution was neither desirable nor achievable; we have consistently advocated a balance of forces and a Government of inclusion. In this connection, we commend ECOWAS for its humanitarian intervention in the Liberian crisis. Although mandated to promote the economic integration of the subregion, its action was a necessary concrete manifestation of unique African solidarity and has afforded Liberians the opportunity to resolve their differences through civil discourse. The primary objective of the Liberian people has been the attainment of a just, comprehensive and durable peace through a political settlement of the conflict. The basic components of the agreements reached by the parties and subsequent resolutions adopted by the Security Council centred around the following objectives: combatants would be disarmed and rehabilitated; sufficient security guarantees would be established to facilitate the resettlement of displaced persons and the repatriation of hundreds of thousands of Liberian refugees; internationally supervised elections would be held in accordance with an agreed timetable; a democratically elected administration would be installed; and the international community would lend the requisite assistance for the economic and social rehabilitation of Liberia. Through the sustained diplomacy of the Economic Community of West African States, complemented by the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations, and the willingness of the parties to continue negotiations, a final agreement was reached in Abuja, the Federal Republic of Nigeria, on 19 August 1995. In celebration of Abuja, we hereby announce our profoundest gratitude to former President Jimmy Carter and current President William Clinton of the United States of America, ECOWAS Chairman President Jerry John Rawlings and his Special Facilitator, Captain Kojo Tsikata, both of Ghana, President Sani Abacha of Nigeria, President Nicéphore Soglo of Benin, the late President Houphouët-Boigny and current President Konan-Bédié of Côte d’Ivoire, President Blaise Campaoré of Burkina Faso, President Lansana Conté of Guinea, President Abdou Diouf of Senegal, President Ali Mwinyi of Tanzania, President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda, President Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali of Tunisia, former President Sir Dawda Jawara, and current Head of State Captain Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh of Gambia, former President Moussa Traoré, and current President Alpha Oumar Konaré of Mali, and former President Joseph Saidu Momoh and current President Valentine Strasser of Sierra Leone. Special thanks also go to all the Presidents and Foreign Ministers of the ECOWAS Committee of Nine, the former Executive Secretary of ECOWAS, Mr. Abass Bundu, and current Executive Secretary Mr. Edouard Benjamin, OAU Secretary General Salim A. Salim, and OAU Eminent Person, former President Canaan Banana, members of the United Nations Security Council, Secretary-General Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali and his Special Representatives, Trevor Gordon-Somers and Ambassador Anthony Nyakyi, all non-governmental and humanitarian organizations in Liberia, the commanders and troops of the Cease-fire Monitoring Group of ECOWAS (ECOMOG), the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL), the member States of ECOWAS, the OAU, the European Union, the United Nations and all the friends of Liberia for helping us help ourselves. We also congratulate the Liberian people for their patience, sacrifice, understanding and maturity as we navigate through turbulent waters to peaceful waters. Unlike previous agreements, the Abuja Agreement to supplement and amend the Cotonou and Akosombo Agreements, as subsequently clarified by the Accra Agreement, provides for a six-man collective presidency comprising the leaders of the principal warring parties and 10 three civilian representatives. They are: His Excellency Professor Wilton S. Sankawulo, Chairman, His Excellency Mr. Charles Ghankay Taylor of the National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL), His Excellency Lt. General Alhaji G. V. Kromah of the United Liberation Movement of Liberia for Democracy (ULIMO), His Excellency Mr. George E. Saigbe Boley of the Liberian Peace Council (LPC), His Excellency Mr. Oscar J. Quiah of the Liberia National Council (LNC), and His Excellency Chief Tamba Tailor, joint nominee of the NPFL and ULIMO, as Vice Chairmen. The very fact that the present collective presidency is functioning and deliberating with unanimity of purpose is reason to celebrate. Each of the six is uniquely and pre- eminently qualified to lead Liberia, but they have relegated their personal ambitions to work collectively as leaders of reconstruction. The Agreement also retained two cardinal principles of the ECOWAS peace plan. The first requires the Government of Liberia to enter a Status of Forces Agreement with ECOWAS regarding the status of ECOMOG in Liberia. This is being worked on at present. The second forbids the Chairman of the Council of State from contesting any position in the ensuing elections. Other members of the Council, the Vice Chairmen of equal status, and officials of the Transitional Government may seek elective office, but are required to resign from the Government prior to the elections. The first signs of adherence to the Abuja Agreement came when, on August 26 1995, a general cease-fire was re-established. On 1 September 1995, the new Council of State was installed in office. Shortly thereafter, a new cabinet of the Liberian National Transitional Government (LNTG) was named and inducted into office. The National Legislative Assembly, the Supreme Court of Liberia and the Elections Commission are functioning in accordance with law. As disarmament is crucial to a complete and timely implementation of the Abuja Accord, I am pleased to report that ECOMOG has begun the deployment of its troops in many parts of the country, and has taken over command of most of the checkpoints hitherto controlled by the parties. Also, most of the major highways and roads in the country are gradually and steadily reopening for the unimpeded movement of individuals and goods. The installation of the Council of State marks a new beginning in the peace process. It points towards a final peaceful resolution of the Liberian crisis and has raised the hopes of Liberians, who believe that the process is now irreversible. Now we must confront the all-engaging task of fostering national reconciliation, unity and the economic rehabilitation of the country. There are clear signs that Liberians earnestly desire to turn the swords of destruction and death into ploughshares of cultivation and rebuilding. They have placed much faith in the democratic option, which will empower them for full participation in the affairs of their country through civil discourse, as opposed to armed confrontation. Like all countries which have had to make the transition from conditions of war and utter deprivation to conditions of peace and development, Liberia now stands in urgent need of substantial assistance from the international community. Help is also required for the rehabilitation of children traumatized by the war and for the reintegration of former combatants into civil society, where their energies can be redirected to productive activities. Beyond these pressing needs the private sector, which is very vital to the long-term economic recovery and development of Liberia, must be revived. Therefore we appeal to our investment partners to return with their expertise and financial resources. We welcome the Secretary-General’s decision to hold a pledging conference for Liberia at the United Nations on 27 October 1995 for the demobilization and reconstruction of Liberia, as well as assistance for ECOWAS in the implementation of its mandate. As we Liberians forge ahead in a determined effort to restore peace in our country and embark on the reconstruction programme, it is imperative that the international community should provide the requisite support and encouragement to the new Liberian leadership. In this connection, we recall that earlier this year the Council of Ministers of the Organization of African Unity adopted resolution 1585 on Liberia which, inter alia, called on the international community to “recognize and give full faith and credence to the current Liberian National Transitional Government and its successors”. It is my Government’s firm belief that the full implementation of this recommendation by Member States 11 will serve to revive and strengthen the bilateral relations between Liberia and friendly Governments by accelerating the reconstruction efforts of the country. To my compatriots let me say that ours is a country that went to war with itself. In the process, all Liberians have suffered or experienced some loss. We empathize with their grief, pain, anguish and frustration. We must now assuage our hurt by rising above our differences and coalesce into a strong, unified nation, determined to move forward to a better and prosperous future. No matter how well disposed to help us our friends and sympathizers of the international community may be, the challenge is ours to rebuild Liberia. I can only appeal to and plead with those friends and sympathizers to be messengers of forgiveness and love. We have a unique opportunity to participate in the redemption of our common patrimony — Liberia, a reality greater than our individual selves. Let us seize this historic moment. Our representation before this body would certainly be incomplete without a reflection of my Government’s position on the many difficulties and the prevailing sense of frustration persisting on the international political scene. However, the recent efforts to reach a permanent solution to the seemingly intractable crisis in the Middle East represent a positive step in the right direction. In this connection, we view the recent signing — on 28 September 1995 — of the agreement reached between Israel and the Palestinian National Authority as a significant milestone. We also salute Israel and Jordan for the Treaty signed on 26 October 1994 regarding mutual reconciliation, and we urge other Arab States in the region to emulate this bold initiative. On the question of limiting nuclear and conventional armaments, my Government believes that nuclear non- proliferation is only the first step to the ultimate goal of complete prohibition. In this connection, we view the recent indefinite extension of the Non-Proliferation Treaty as an act that strengthens the international non-proliferation regime and enhances the maintenance of world peace and security. The conflict in the former Yugoslavia — especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina — and the crises in Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Somalia and Burundi continue to be a source of much concern to the international community. My Government welcomes the important role played by the international community — particularly the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity and the Economic Community of West African States, the European Union, the United States and the Russian Federation. We also call on the parties to the conflict to refrain from further military action and to opt for a negotiated settlement, to the mutual satisfaction of all the parties concerned. With respect to reform of the Security Council, Liberia calls for either expansion of the membership of the Council or modification of paragraph 3 of Article 27 — Chapter V — of the Charter to conform with paragraph 2 of the same Article, to enable the larger membership of the United Nations to participate in the process of decision-making. We believe that either or both of these steps would make the Council not only more representative, but also more democratic and transparent. The proposed reform is also intended to ensure balance between the requirements of efficiency and expansion, transparency in the Council’s methods of work and optimum utilization of the resources of those States that can contribute significantly to peace-keeping operations and development activities. The rationale for our call lies in logic, democracy, equality and the Charter of the United Nations. When we signed the Charter half a century ago there were three African countries among 51 nations. Today the African membership has increased to approximately 52 nations among a total of 185. The five permanent members of the Security Council are from three of the five continents of our world — Asia, Europe and North America. The continent of Africa ought to have at least one permanent member, to be determined by the African countries themselves. In his inaugural address at this historic session the President of the Assembly averred that if the United Nations is to maintain its unique character as an international Organization that is truly universal, efforts should be made to ensure that all States which are not yet Members can be admitted in the near future. My delegation fully supports this position and recalls that when we signed the Charter of the United Nations the five permanent members of the Security Council were the Republic of China, France, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America. Contrary to the principle of universality, the People’s Republic of China was not included. We are happy that 24 years ago the General Assembly restored the lawful right of the People’s Republic of China to membership of this Organization, in keeping with the Charter’s principle of universality and the reality that that country is the world’s most populous nation. 12 Twenty-four years later, we note that 20 Member States from Africa, Asia, the Caribbean and Latin America, in a letter to the Secretary-General, requested that the exceptional situation of the Republic of China on Taiwan be examined by the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. My Government firmly believes that the unification of China should be peacefully pursued and that it is a matter for the Chinese people themselves to determine at some time in the future. However, we note that there were two Germanys in the United Nations until their reunification a little over five years ago and that there are still two Koreas, both of which are now Members of the Organization. We have confidence in the ability of the United Nations to deal properly with this long-standing matter so that the unification of China may be peacefully pursued by the Chinese themselves. We wholeheartedly welcome the recent progressive trends in the world economic spectrum. However, we also remain mindful of the persistent inhibitive factors that continue to account for the slow and unbalanced growth of the global economy. In spite of the increase in the number of developing countries now participating as key players in the world economy, the magnitude of increasing poverty for more than 1 billion people of the world leaves much to be desired. The gap between developed and developing countries continues to widen, not only reflecting the marginalization of the developing countries but also undermining efforts aimed at securing access to international trade, communications and the flow of vital information. Meanwhile, there is also a crisis of official development assistance, caused by stagnation and a reduction in assistance sources. It is worth noting that there is a need for increased cooperation if anything is to be achieved in addressing these distracting issues. One approach would be to reconsider the agreement regarding the developed countries contributing 0.7 per cent of gross national product to the assistance programmes for the developing countries. The economic situation in most African countries is critical and precarious. It is true that the global economic situation affects all developing countries, but its impact on sub-Saharan Africa is tremendous. While we recognize that the development of Africa is primarily our responsibility, concerted efforts by the international community and donor countries will complement the national efforts of African Governments in reversing the negative trend of their economies. As regards the role of women in development, we believe that the full and equal integration of women into the development process at all levels is a central goal. We fully support the Conferences that were held in Cairo and Accra and in Taiwan earlier this year, and we are also committed to the successful implementation of the decisions reached at the 1995 World Conference on Women, held recently in Beijing, with the theme “Action for Equality, Development and Peace”. Liberia — a Founding Member of the United Nations — although encumbered by a fratricidal war, is proud of its modest contribution since the formation of the Organization, particularly in respect of the decolonization of Africa and its aspirations for economic growth and development. As the country emerges from war, it pledges anew its commitment to the Organization. It is our firm belief that the United Nations offers the best hope for a just and more equitable world. Member States are therefore challenged to pool their resources and work together, not as competitors but as equal partners aligned in a common pursuit. Liberia is determined to regain its rightful place, by virtue of its long history and involvement in the struggle for peace, cooperation and the prosperity of all peoples, in the comity of nations. During the past half-century of its existence, the United Nations has endeavoured to maintain international peace and security and remain responsive to the needs of the public that it serves. Today, its responsibilities have increased to cover urgent humanitarian emergencies which require the deployment of tremendous resources. It is hoped that the corresponding support will be forthcoming from Member States. When the United Nations succeeds, the great majority, who depend on the services it provides, are lifted from misery, suffering and deprivation. That is the basic principle we should bear in mind as the Organization enters its fifty-first year of existence. The United Nations, in spite of its perceived shortcomings, which we must collectively seek to overcome, represents mankind’s legitimate aspiration to be truly our brother’s keeper. Let us rededicate ourselves to this important objective to ensure our survival and that of succeeding generations. Forty-five years ago, in 1950, a destructive hurricane battered my island country. It destroyed our small homes, levelled our sugar-cane fields, left death and destruction in its path and made Antigua and Barbuda a destitute colony. It was the very worst hurricane that Antigua and Barbuda had ever experienced. Several hurricanes were to strike us after 1950, including Hurricane Hugo in 1989. Thirty-five days ago, however, Hurricane Luis visited its fury on my small island developing State. For more than 48 hours, its mighty gusts blew the roofs from thousands of homes, schools, churches, government buildings, hotels. Its sustained winds, exceeding 160 miles per hour, uprooted many of Antigua and Barbuda’s old trees, decapitated thousands of stately palms, and deposited the leaves and broken limbs of our evergreen trees everywhere. The swollen sea sent surf and sand swirling into the lobbies and beachfront rooms of our hotels — the source of our national income. Sheets of rain, carried relentlessly by the winds of Hurricane Luis, made everything wet and everyone weary. Our electricity and telephone systems were destroyed when thousands of poles succumbed to the fury of its winds, snapping cables and smashing equipment as they fell to the earth. Our fishermen lost their boats, our farmers lost their fields, and our people lost some of our courage. Nature appeared to have declared war on us. When the ferocious winds of Hurricane Luis subsided, 48 hours after landfall, the verdant, lush, tropical vegetation that had drawn millions to our shores over the years had disappeared; our islands were a mere caricature of their previous glory. The engine of our economy has stalled; tourism, the source of Antigua and Barbuda’s income, has been severely compromised and we may not be able to restart the industry for several weeks. Fishermen and farmers, storekeepers and hotel workers are now without incomes; thousands are jobless. The threat of creeping poverty hangs over a people that, 14 years ago, at the end of 150 years of colonialism, had started to enjoy an improved standard of living, higher than ever recorded in our 350-year modern history. Forty-eight hours after Hurricane Luis had traversed the Caribbean, the vulnerability of small island States was again made manifest. Dominica, Guadeloupe, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Maarten, Anguilla and Montserrat all suffered a fate similar to Antigua and Barbuda’s. Coming on the heels of Luis, Hurricane Marilyn would batter the island of Saint Thomas. Small island States and territories, thriving and robust on one day, were paralysed and incapacitated within 48 hours. Development is not sustainable if 17 hurricanes are to trample through our region each year; yet climate experts have given us notice that the phenomenon known as global warming will generate a greater number of “extreme weather events”, more ferocious and monstrous in each succeeding year. Hurricane Luis was 700 miles wide; its wind gusts reached almost 200 miles per hour; and its sustained winds exceeded 160 miles per hour. It was unique in its size and devilish in its fury. There may never be sufficient evidence to link the global warming phenomenon to any single hurricane; but the pattern is evident. I draw the Assembly’s attention to a study entitled “Confronting Climate Change”, published by the Cambridge University Press. In it we read: “If global temperatures continue to rise in accordance with current predictions, increases in the number and severity of storms, floods, droughts, and other short-term weather extremes may be one of the earliest observed and most dramatic effects.” 8 Carbon dioxide emissions, caused by the burning of petroleum, coal, wood and gas, since the start of the industrial revolution in Western Europe 200 years ago, have begun to warm the planet and to place the survival of small islands in jeopardy. Three years ago, at the Earth Summit in Rio, Brazil, the nations of the world had their representatives sign the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. I read from the Convention: “The ultimate objective of this Convention and any related legal instruments that the Conference of the Parties may adopt is to achieve ... stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous [man-made] interference with the climate system.” (article 2) Earlier this year, the nations of the world met in Berlin, Germany, to consider a proposal matching this objective and linked to this Convention; it was put forward by 41 vulnerable small island States. Many industrialized countries, guilty of emitting into our Earth’s atmosphere billions of tons of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, would not then agree to any reduction in these gases. We cannot stand idly by, experience the deadly effects of global warming, and be satisfied with promises. Harmful production, wasteful consumption and dangerous disposal patterns continue to characterize the behaviour of the largest industrialized States. They sow the wind; small island States reap the whirlwind. In the South Pacific, where defenceless small island States predominate, another large industrialized State chooses to explode several nuclear bombs, euphemistically called “nuclear devices”. We remain opposed to the testing of all nuclear weapons. If those bombs are as harmless and as safe as that State claims, then why not test them on its own soil? The same disregard for the weak and small States holds for the transboundary movement of hazardous wastes, especially shipments of nuclear wastes through the Caribbean Sea. We are dreadfully afraid of an accident and equally fearful of the impact of news of an accident on our development. We have done much of what is required of us to ensure that our development proceeds apace and with few setbacks. Evidence of our intelligent use of our meagre resource base is captured in the annual Human Development Report published by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). For example, my Caribbean country shares a common currency with five other small island States and one territory. We call it the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Its value has remained unchanged since 1976. For almost two decades, self-discipline and probity have been the hallmark of the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank. Hurricane Luis has severely disabled four of the seven economies which share the currency — Dominica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Montserrat, and Antigua and Barbuda. And unfair attempts by Central American banana producers to eliminate the English-speaking Caribbean’s 3 per cent of the world market share threaten to undo the other three economies — those of Grenada, Saint Lucia, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The Eastern Caribbean dollar (EC$) can only remain stable if our economies earn foreign exchange. Unfair trade, just like hurricanes, can devastate our vulnerable small island States’ economies and make the earning of foreign exchange impossible. We share a currency, and we share a university. The University of the West Indies is soon to celebrate its fiftieth year of continued existence, having graduated an overwhelming number of professionals from the 17 States and territories of the English-speaking Caribbean which call it their own. This year my Government provided 73 scholarships to the most deserving youth in Antigua and Barbuda, with amounts ranging from $EC 54,000 to $10,000 each. We intend to build the national capacity to ensure that sustainable human development is more than a wish. We share a currency, we share a university, we share a judiciary. The Eastern Caribbean Court of Appeals has demonstrated that justice and cost-effectiveness can be twin handmaids of small island States. Eight of us also combine our national defence forces to form a Regional Security System (RSS). Though small by any standard, we have succeeded in increasing our defences exponentially, while containing defence costs significantly. The recent invasion of the Comoros Islands by a mercenary band which took its President hostage and seized power there serves as a reminder of the security constraints facing small island States. Our efforts at regional collaboration extend beyond a common currency, a university, a judiciary and a defence force. You have recently pronounced, Sir, on the success of “interlocking, regional building blocks” in Europe. Thirty years ago, before many of our Caribbean countries were independent and free, we commenced that process by creating, in 1965, the Caribbean Free Trade Agreement (Carita). Carita has metamorphosed into the Caribbean Community and Common Market (Caricom), 9 and earlier this year the Association of Caribbean States (ACS) was formed by all the States and territories which share the Caribbean Sea. More than 200 million people form this new market. Antigua and Barbuda has done much of what is required of it to achieve sustainable development. The results of our many and varied efforts cannot bear fruit if, year after year, hurricanes destroy that which we have created. We look to the United Nations to help in persuading the industrialized countries to adopt the Toronto targets, as a first step in our common effort to ensure the survival of this planet which we all share. We have faith in the United Nations because the image of the United Nations in my country and region is positive and good. When a volcano threatened to erupt on the neighbouring island of Montserrat and my country offered safe refuge to half of that island’s population, the United Nations Resident Representative in Barbados led a United Nations team of experts to Antigua; they came to determine how the United Nations could assist. Following the devastation wrought by Hurricane Luis, the United Nations Development Programme Barbados country office, the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, the World Health Organization and several other United Nations agencies and bodies quickly launched an international appeal to help us reconstruct. The most distinguished citizen of Antigua and Barbuda, His Excellency the Governor-General, was also quick to agree to be the Chairman of the UN 50 National Committee. This willingness serves as a measure of the high regard in which the United Nations is held. My small island State can also boast that it has paid its contribution to the United Nations in full; we owe no arrears, despite the burden which membership dues and peace-keeping operations impose on our limited resources. We can only encourage the wealthy and the powerful to pay their obligations. For us the United Nations is more than a symbol; more, too, than an instrument for the narrow national interests of Antigua and Barbuda. For us, the United Nations is the guarantor of international law, an agent for international peace and security, a catalyst for development and prosperity. The Secretary-General has noted that the greatest threats to peace are adverse social and economic conditions within States and among States. As a consequence, during the past three years the international community has convened six global conferences to plot the course of human history in the coming century and beyond. Collectively, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the World Conference on Human Rights, the First Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, the International Conference on Population and Development, the World Summit for Social Development, and the Fourth World Conference on Women collectively create a multifaceted framework of action; this will be completed by the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), in 1996. These conferences act as a guide to Member States as they seek to address the challenges inherent in the interrelated areas of peace and development. States must now seek to implement the several Programmes of Action. We are particularly gratified by the extent to which the last two conferences build on the positions which we took at the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. In particular, my delegation would wish to emphasize the importance of empowering women. The inclusion of women in the councils of the Government of Antigua and Barbuda, and at senior levels in the public service and the private sector, gives credence to the earnestness of our commitment to the advancement of women. Without the full and equal participation of women, sustainable development cannot be achieved. In congratulating you on your election to your high office, Mr. President, my country is very cognizant of the role which Vasco da Gama played in bringing distant worlds together. Today we find in you the same foresight and imagination displayed by your most well-known citizen. These qualities are necessary for leading this historic fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. We congratulate Foreign Minister Mr. Amara Essy, the President of the forty-ninth session, on his sterling stewardship of this Organization. At several junctures in its 50-year history, the purpose and goals of this United Nations have been redefined. In 1945, following the end of the Second World War, the United Nations was created as a policy instrument of the victorious Powers to prevent further large-scale destruction and massive loss of life. For more than a decade the United Nations was focused on preventing a third world war. In 1957 a little country in Africa twisted the tail of its colonial master, and Kwame Nkrumah emerged from jail in Ghana to lead his country and to redefine the purpose of this United Nations. When the United Nations was created in 1945, colonialism defined the relations between the powerful and the weak, between Europe and much of Asia and Africa. The adoption of resolution 10 1514 (XV) in 1960 turned the United Nations into a policy instrument to end colonialism. For more than a decade after 1960 the focus of the United Nations was to destroy colonialism and apartheid. My small island nation did not even enter into the consciousness of the founders in 1945. We are the beneficiaries of the struggle to end colonialism. The presence here of small island States is mere happenstance, since few expected that there could be any such creation as a micro-State, seated in this Hall as an equal of the mightiest and the largest States. In that regard, we would wish to welcome the island State of Palau to membership in this Organization. But by 1970 the United Nations had begun to address inequities in international trade and development, and the search for a more just international economic order displaced the concerns of 1945. In the 1970s, also, the cold war exploded. Regional wars in southern Africa, Central America and the Middle East were fuelled by the two super-Powers. By the end of the 1980s the constraints imposed by the cold war and the demands on our resources for peace-keeping made the United Nations a much more complicated instrument than it had ever been. Today our United Nations must struggle with the unfinished business of earlier decades. Small island States, in the 1990s, aware that their very existence is at stake, have tried to make the United Nations focus on the environment and development, especially climate change. If we fail in this quest, this civilization will destroy us and, in the process, destroy itself. Island States are much like the canary in the coal mine; we are the messengers, signalling the danger to the rest of the world. Having suffered through Hurricane Hugo and Hurricane Luis, we thank the many Governments, institutions and people who have come to our rescue. The people of Antigua and Barbuda are aware of the vulnerability of small islands. We know our history and we know the role played by small States in shaping the present. My Prime Minister, the Honourable Lester Bryant Bird, has applauded the people of Antigua and Barbuda for their resilience and indomitable will in the face of adversity. If we can endure 200 years of chattel slavery, and 150 years of brutal colonialism, then surely we can recover from two nights of a horrible hurricane, he has said. We believe that small island States at this United Nations can also shape the next five decades in human history. We are here for that purpose, and we intend to succeed. I have the honour to make the following statement on behalf of His Excellency Mr. A. S. M. Mostafizur Rahman, the Foreign Minister of Bangladesh, who, though present in New York, is unable to attend this Assembly for reasons of health. “I warmly congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his unanimous election as President of this historic fiftieth anniversary session of the United Nations General Assembly. His election is a tribute, not only to him personally, but to his great country, Portugal. I am confident that he will do great honour to the legacy of his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, to whom we owe deep appreciation, not least for his sponsorship of the establishment, on 14 September, of the Open-ended High-level Working Group on the strengthening of the United Nations system. “Let me also commend our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedicated and untiring efforts to promote the effectiveness of this world body. “In this fiftieth anniversary year, the United Nations has reached a critical turning-point in appraising its past and in charting a viable course for its future, based on the renewed commitment, trust and consensus of its Member States. “The world of today is obviously quite different from that of 1945. Then, the United Nations, in the wake of the devastating global conflagration that was the Second World War, was called upon to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war'. In the wake of the cold war, the United Nations is now called upon to consolidate and secure an uncertain and amorphous peace. 13 “The end of the cold war had fuelled hopes that the United Nations, freed from nuclear and ideological confrontation, would devote its full attention to building a peaceful and more equitable world; tackle the challenge of world poverty; advance regional conflicts to resolution; distribute the benefits of peace dividends; and move towards fulfilling the unrealized premises of the Charter, especially with regard to collective security. “These hopes were belied. The world of the 1990s is more dangerous in many ways than the cold- war era. There is greater tension in more places, a further degradation in the quality of life and many more complex issues of law and ethics, management and practical cooperation. Negative impulses have assumed a variety of dimensions within States, between groups of States and globally. “Within States, nations have come under siege from multiple threats, retarding their capacity to act effectively or independently. Political instability has fuelled an economic breakdown, and economic backwardness has created political upheaval in a never-ending vicious circle. Long-suppressed national, ethnic and cultural rivalries have resurfaced, unleashing bigotry, extremism and violence. They have generated powerful centrifugal forces that have not only threatened to but actually breached established boundaries. Demagogues, political separatists and fringe groups are being encouraged and supported by external forces to challenge the legitimacy of Governments and their capacity to govern. “On another plane, fears are surfacing that the bipolar world of the past 50 years could now assume a North-South configuration, not between opposing political and social systems, but between rich and poor nations. Anxiety is increasing in the South that their interests are being marginalized; that development resources are being diverted or are dwindling; that their potential to act as partners in revitalizing the world economy is being ignored; and that new constraints and conditionalities are being selectively imposed. “Globally, new forces are emerging that no State acting alone can control but which threaten the legitimacy of all States. Pollution, eco-damage, devastating diseases, speculative dealers and money- launderers, organized crime, arms smugglers and terrorists have eaten into all societies, vitiated values and crippled development. Rapid technological and transnational processes are reducing the ability of States to act on their own or to regulate domestic policies affecting the movement of goods, services, labour and capital. Tensions over resources are a case in point. Forty per cent of the world’s population live on the banks of rivers or lakes shared by two or more countries. Dams and irrigation projects cause serious tension and actual conflict. “Ironically, at a time when the United Nations is in greater demand then ever before and its capacity stretched to the limit, a serious campaign of vilification has been launched against it. It has been charged with mismanagement, inefficiency, corruption, excessive costs and over-staffing. Its growing membership, in the wake of decolonization, has been termed irresponsible, obstructive and divisive, and it has been accused of indiscriminately exercising the so-called tyranny of the majority'. This tarnished image, propagated by a few but rejected by many, has left deep scars that have diminished the United Nations. “It is against this background that I now turn to some of the priority concerns facing Bangladesh. “First and foremost is the financial crisis that threatens to undermine the United Nations. The Secretary-General has declared that the United Nations is already technically bankrupt. The financial situation has to be placed on an adequate and sustainable footing and its deterioration urgently reversed. “Bangladesh has consistently held that the current financial difficulties were primarily a cash- flow imbalance due mainly to the failure by some Member States, in particular some major contributors, to fulfil their Charter obligations in full and on time. These Member States must give practical effect to their commitment to the United Nations by paying their assessed contribution in full and on time, including all arrears. Capacity to pay remains the fundamental tenet in determining Member States’ contributions. To proceed on the basis that simply a revision of the scales of assessment would provide a panacea to all financial ills is simplistic and misleading. It will neither change the aggregate amount of revenues available 14 to the United Nations nor guarantee better cash flows or prompt payment. While it is likely that for some time to come the bulk of United Nations revenues will come from assessments and voluntary contributions, Bangladesh supports exploring the possibility of providing independent revenue sources for the United Nations through various international transactions and taxation. “Bangladesh supports the reform efforts that have been initiated to revitalize and restructure the main organs of the United Nations and to achieve a more dynamic interrelationship for them. We intend to participate actively and constructively in the open- ended, high-level Working Group on United Nations reform which is to review the Secretary-General’s Agendas for Peace and Development, respectively, and the report submitted by Member States and independent commissions. While we support the idea that the broad objective of the reform is to strengthen the response and efficiency of the United Nations system in promoting the goals of development, security, justice and equality and to improve accountability and responsibility, we reject pursuit of reforms of a purely mechanical or managerial nature. It seems ironic that the yardstick for determining what should or should not be pruned has been applied selectively in the past, with peace-keeping operations approved by the Security Council proliferating at the cost of development programmes. Catchwords of cost- effectiveness, financial stringency, trimming management, redundancy, waste and inefficiency seem intended more to constrain control and reduce the United Nations role than improve its capability of responding to the needs of the international community. “Our position with regard to Security Council reform has concentrated more on strengthening the transparency and efficiency of the Council’s mandate than on enlargement of the permanent membership. While we fully support enlargement of the overall size of the Council to reflect the growth in membership of the United Nations, we believe that an increase in permanent members should be considered only on the basis of the most stringent criteria, and on the basis of global recognition and consensus. We are opposed in principle to creating new centres of privilege or distinctions that can distort the principle of sovereign equality. “Bangladesh welcomes the consensus achieved in the outcomes of the major conferences in Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing on population, social development and women, which supplement the results of the Earth Summit, the children’s Summit and the Vienna Conference on Human Rights. Together they have forged a meaningful and comprehensive social agenda that has reinforced poverty eradication and people-centred sustainable development. It must be emphasized, however, that social development is dependent on economic growth, which can be fuelled only in an international economic environment which is conducive to it. “The global society is only as strong as its weakest link. The plight of the least developed countries assumes special relevance and importance in this 1995 mid-term review year of the least developed countries’ Programme of Action for the 1990s. Their continuing crises calls for immediate remedial action especially in increasing official development assistance, writing off debts and assuring greater trade access on preferential terms. “Bangladesh has followed closely and supports strongly the evolution and development of the Secretary-General’s Agenda for Peace. We agree with the priority emphasis that has been placed on preventive diplomacy and conflict-prevention measures and recognize especially their cost- effectiveness. We believe that regional efforts and regional agencies should be utilized more frequently and their capacity strengthened. Bangladesh has actively contributed to the peace-keeping mission of the United Nations and has always favourably responded in providing troops. We have closely examined and positively responded to the request for the provision of stand-by troops. We are also favourably inclined to support a rapid-reaction capability for providing humanitarian assistance. “At plenary meetings the General Assembly will have occasion to address in greater depth some of the most pressing and critical political issues on the agenda, including the ongoing conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which prospects for a negotiated solution have considerably brightened on the basis of the Contact Group’s Peace Plan and the Geneva Declaration of Principles of 8 September 1995; the continuing peace efforts in the Middle East and the new interim agreement between Israel and Palestinian leaders as a follow-up 15 to the Oslo Agreement; the status of democracy and human rights in Haiti; and the review of the work of international tribunals established in former Yugoslavia and in Rwanda. Given the fluidity and rapid evolution of events in some of these crises, it is our hope to comment on them at length during consideration of the specific item. “Let me say in conclusion that there is no doubt in our mind that the United Nations remains the only forum where we can meet the challenges of the future by drawing upon our combined solidarity and willingness to confront them together. Bangladesh reaffirms its firm and unwavering commitment to this world body and the pursuit of its great goals.” It is with much pleasure and great satisfaction that I join the previous speakers who have already congratulated the President on his election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. The participation of his country, Portugal, at the United Nations has always been active and constructive. My delegation, therefore, is confident that under the President’s wise and able leadership our Organization will progress further towards its goals. And we assure him of our fullest cooperation and support in the tasks that devolve upon him. May I take this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation to the President’s distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for the admirable and effective manner in which he conducted the business of the forty-ninth session. Let me also renew my delegation’s homage to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali for the efficient and committed manner in which he is carrying out his mission as Secretary-General. Every year, we seize the opportunity of the session of the General Assembly to share our views and concerns about the state of international relations. In this fiftieth year of the existence of our Organization, I particularly wish to address the Assembly from the perspective of a small island State. The end of the cold war and the breakup of the Soviet bloc, the globalization of the world economy and the establishment of the World Trade Organization to oversee international trade, the emergence of China as an economic giant, the liberalization of the Indian economy and South Africa’s return to the community of nations, in such a short span of time, have all contributed to rapid changes in the global economic scene. My country shares the belief that regionalization is a first prerequisite for smooth integration into a global economic pattern. It was natural, therefore, that the region of the Indian Ocean could not remain isolated from the movement towards regionalization, despite the fact that the Indian Ocean countries form a heterogeneous zone with a multiplicity of economic systems, political traditions and cultural experiences. It is in this perspective that Mauritius hosted, in March this year, the Indian Ocean Rim (IOR) initiative. Built on the foundations of historic interchanges between nations in the Indian Ocean, the IOR initiative could be seen both as a geographical reality and a natural economic entity. Its objective, as clearly outlined at the first meeting, is to establish a regional forum, tripartite in nature, that will bring together representatives of Governments, business and academia for the purpose of promoting economic cooperation in the region. Although the IOR initiative has been launched with an initial group, may I hasten to add that the IOR is open to all the countries of the Indian Ocean region. As we go along, the initiative will expand progressively to include other countries, on the basis of a coherent programme and plan of action. Other existing groupings, such as the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), the Southern African Development Community (SADC) — to which organization my country has recently been admitted — and the Indian Ocean Commission, have already contributed significantly to greater interaction in our region, and it is our hope that this new initiative will further pave the way for a dynamic integration of the Indian Ocean region into the global economic pattern. In this regard, we look forward to, and will highly appreciate, the support of major regional groups and countries in the implementation of this laudable initiative. Indeed, while we are making considerable efforts to ensure the prosperity and advancement of our countries, we are also very much aware that this cannot be achieved without the assistance of major players in the global economy. At the same time, it is important that, at a time of growing interdependence among States and economies, efforts must be made to include developing countries in the international economic decision-making process so as to achieve effective management of the global economy. The Bretton Woods institutions — namely, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund — 16 should be able to devise new ways and means of responding to the development needs, priorities and specificities of developing countries by providing adequate resources without stringent conditionalities. I should like here to appeal to the international financial institutions to put aside, when circumstances demand, their first and foremost role of bankers and act more as partners in the global development process. For it is becoming increasingly clear that development problems cannot be solved by countries on their own, whatever be their sense of commitment and purpose. Africa, where countries are afflicted by deep-seated and chronic problems, is one such example. My country, therefore, welcomes the views expressed by the Secretary-General in his Agenda for Development, and in particular supports his démarches to alleviate problems and sufferings on the African continent. We wish in this regard to see the rapid implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development in Africa in the 1990s and the Cairo Agenda for Action on Relaunching African Economic and Social Development, as well as the recommendations of the Bandung Asia-Africa Forum. Africa, we know, is not alone, and we were gratified in September last year by President Clinton’s statement at the reception for African nations to the effect that “The United States has been, and will continue to be, a partner in Africa’s success story”. This is comforting, and we wish to see more concrete steps in this direction. I wish also to seize this opportunity to pay tribute to two decades of partnership between the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific and those of the European Union, through the Lomé Conventions. In a few weeks’ time Mauritius will have the privilege and honour of hosting the signing of the second financial protocol of Lomé IV. While I pay tribute to this concrete example of effective partnership between the North and the South, it is our sincere hope that our partners of the European Union will continue to support its traditional friends despite emerging demands nearer home. Economic and socio-cultural progress cannot be sustained if man does not remain at the centre of development. In this context, education, training and information play a fundamental role. We firmly believe that it is extremely important to invest in human resources. In keeping with this belief, education and training are provided free of charge at primary and secondary levels in my country, to boys and girls and to men and women alike. An educated and trained individual is in a better position to respond and adapt to the changing needs of society and the developments taking place around him. As such, he is able to provide faster and better results. One of the scourges of developing nations remains an inadequate level of education and the lack of training facilities and access to the latest information. Developing countries, in fact, run the risk of being left outside the network of rapidly evolving information technology. And yet can anyone deny the absolute need for small island States like mine to be connected to the rest of the world through up-to-date information networks? Therefore, while the eradication of illiteracy and the provision of education facilities should continue to remain a top priority of the United Nations, we should add to this the transfer of information technology. Women are a major agent of development, and they have often been disadvantaged in their quest for education and training. Of course, to the United Nations, the advancement of women is not a new cause. The year 1975 was proclaimed International Women’s Year, followed by the United Nations Decade for Women. Since then, major United Nations conferences, such as the Earth Summit, in Rio, the World Conference on Human Rights, in Vienna, and others have repeatedly brought the plight of women to the fore, the most significant being the recent Beijing Conference. The agreements concluded at Beijing recognized the pivotal role of women in our society and laid down the foundations for their participation as equal partners in development activities. More important, however, will be the “after” Beijing — the need to get down to the implementation of decisions arrived at and the need to find ways and means of building the bridges to allow for greater involvement of women in national and international matters. The world this year befittingly witnessed two other important United Nations conferences: the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen and the Review and Extension Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in New York. The Summit on Social Development called attention to the impact of the world economic system on the poor and underprivileged and helped to project new ideas for alternative models of social development. It also allowed 17 the renewal of the world commitment to resolve the problems of poverty, unemployment and social exclusion. For its part, the non-proliferation Treaty, which came into force in 1970, is important in several ways. It enshrines an undertaking between the five nuclear-weapon States to begin serious nuclear disarmament negotiations and the non-nuclear countries not to acquire nuclear weapons in return for access to peaceful nuclear technology. It is a major international agreement the aim of which is to curb the spread of nuclear weapons and build confidence among the nuclear-weapon States towards a reduction of their arsenals. The Treaty also provides the basis for legitimate trade in nuclear technology for peaceful purposes. The indefinite extension of the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty in May this year can be considered a landmark in the history of mankind, which has committed itself to free the world from the threat of nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, the optimism generated by the indefinite extension of the Treaty was short-lived in the wake of the resumption of recent nuclear testings. These activities are definitely not encouraging signs for the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty in the foreseeable future. In our region, however, we are confident that the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty, which was recently finalized in South Africa, will go a long way towards contributing to international peace and security. It covers a large part of the Indian Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean, both containing major sea routes of the world. My delegation sincerely hopes to see the speedy entry into force of this Treaty, which, among other issues, encompasses the integrality of the territory of States members of the Organization of African Unity as a nuclear-weapon-free zone. The Vienna Conference was a turning-point for world perception of human rights. We hope that the principles and objectives enshrined in the 1993 Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action on human rights may in time be recognized and effectively respected in all corners of the world. My country has always upheld human rights and favoured their promotion and protection. But at the same time, in the field of human rights, we believe that we have to move with caution lest we run the risk of damaging the interests of those very individuals and societies that we are purporting to protect in the short run. Nevertheless, this should not prevent us from combining our best efforts in all good faith to bring about a just and equitable society by trying to win the confidence of the peoples, societies and Governments rather than by threatening them economically, militarily or otherwise. The upholding of human values and uplift of humanity should continue to remain our main concern at all times and in the best interests of humanity. It is for this reason that we should seize every opportunity to applaud the restoration of human rights and democracy, regardless of other considerations. We are delighted, therefore, at the long-awaited liberation of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi this year, which we feel has opened up new avenues for dialogue in Myanmar. During the past few years in particular, the United Nations has become increasingly identified in the public perception with the Blue Helmets. The growing focus on the activities of the peace-keepers is such that their successes and failures often affect the credibility of our Organization. Peace-keeping is an important tool for conflict resolution; its success depends to a large extent on a strong political will on the part of Member States, a clear mandate to the peace-keepers and solid material, logistical and financial support. However, one of the main factors for conflict resolution remains the early identification of potential conflicts and tensions. While arms and weapons can be used to threaten and temporarily silence those involved in the conflicts, lasting peace can be achieved only through moral persuasion, the removal of fear and despair, and the instilling of hope and security in the minds of people. The need, therefore, to strengthen the arms of preventive diplomacy becomes imperative. In the recent past, the United Nations has been increasingly called upon to carry out peace-keeping and peacemaking operations. In fact, the number of demands made on the Organization is now straining its resources almost to the breaking-point. The erratic and reluctant disbursement of contributions by some Member States has highlighted the shortcomings of such operations and exposed the limits of this approach in ensuring peace and stability. We therefore need more than ever to place much greater emphasis on preventive diplomacy and allocate more resources to this activity. We believe that, in the long run, the cost of supporting programmes in 18 preventive diplomacy would be far outweighed by the actual costs of dispatching Blue Helmets around the world. In this respect, we urge the international community strongly to support regional initiatives, such as the mechanism for conflict prevention, management and resolution of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). The experience of my country as a result of my own personal participation in several ministerial missions organized by the OAU in the context of this mechanism has convinced us to put greater reliance in this approach. My delegation would therefore like to appeal to this body to make a strong commitment to the realization of this very important programme. The establishment of an early-warning system and threat-assessment unit at the United Nations could equally support the proposed OAU early-warning system. This would go a long way towards preparing the United Nations to deal with the contemporary challenges of peace-keeping and peace-building at a more realistic cost. Yet I would appeal for more cohesion and harmonization among the various conflict-prevention and conflict-resolution mechanisms in order to avoid duplication of efforts. (spoke in French) At this point, my delegation should like to refer to the increasing activities of the francophone movement in the areas of conflict prevention and peace-keeping. We welcome the encouraging results of the work of the recent conference of French-speaking countries on conflict prevention, which took place in Canada. Among the recommendations of that conference, we note in particular the one relating to the support of the francophone movement for the pan-African mechanism for conflict prevention, management and resolution. It is true that the movement has no great means at its disposal, but it has none the less been able to lend considerable support in the recent past to certain United Nations programme in the area of human rights and the process of democratization. With respect to those two areas, I also wish to highlight the important activities of the movement over the past two years in the countries of the African Great Lakes region following the tragic events that took place there. In December, at Cotonou, my Prime Minister will be passing on the presidency of the movement to the President of Benin. I wish to take this opportunity to express my great satisfaction at the way in which, during his term of office, the political dimension of the French-speaking movement’s work on the international level has developed. I should like to express the hope that this political facet of the movement will in future be able to play a growing role in international forums in striving for the realization of lasting peace in the world. (spoke in English) We are already witnessing promising developments in conflict resolution in regions such as Angola, Mozambique and the Middle East. We commend the recent initiatives in Bosnia and exhort all parties concerned to continue to intensify their efforts to find a long-term solution, and hope that the long-awaited peace in this region is achieved not under the threat of guns, but through the goodwill, understanding and tolerance of all concerned. My delegation recognizes that the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations provides a golden opportunity for the re-examination and the renewal of the United Nations system, and welcomes the initiative launched in the General Assembly to negotiate a reform of the Security Council. We believe that the present 15-member composition of the Security Council does not reflect the realities of the economic and political changes of the past decades. In its present composition, the Security Council can neither claim to take into account the positions of nations in the next 50 years, nor reasonably pretend to speak on behalf of 185 nations for the maintenance of world peace and security. The Security Council has indeed the main task of maintaining peace and security. However, the concept of world security has itself undergone a huge transformation. We are now more at risk from the threat of economic, social, cultural and religious upheavals and turmoils than from the outbreak of war resulting from conflicts between States or a group of States. Consequently, if the Security Council is to command full respect in all parts of the world and enjoy legitimacy, it should undergo a complete overhaul. In the context of the current exercise on the expansion of the Security Council, we believe that the claim of India, the largest parliamentary democracy, to a permanent seat on the Security Council is legitimate. In the same spirit, countries from other regions, including small island States, could equally aspire to permanent seats in an expanded Security Council. The world has gradually been reduced to a global village. The regions of the world and their peoples, 19 although still widely separated geographically, are fast realizing that the future of the world community lies in a common shared goal. We are increasingly becoming aware that the world is one family, and that if we are to assure a brighter and better future for coming generations, we have no other choice than to continue our efforts towards preserving and promoting a strong United Nations that will be able to pursue a common purpose for a world of equity, justice and shared economic progress. In Mauritius, in spite of the existence of many cultures and religions, we have been successful in promoting peaceful coexistence. We have always believed that no meaningful progress can be achieved in the absence of peace and harmony. We have always believed in our people and have actively promoted the culture of tolerance and mutual respect. We remain deeply committed to the principles of democracy and justice. The path of tolerance and mutual respect for different faiths and religions and the acceptance of unity in diversity laid down under the inspiring leadership of the Father of the Nation, Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam, since independence in 1968 and followed through relentlessly by our present Prime Minister, Sir Anerood Jugnauth have been largely responsible for the harmonious way of life in Mauritius. In conclusion, I should like on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization to share with the international community our rich experience of living in peace and harmony. You have the difficult and noble task, Sir, of guiding the work of the General Assembly at a time when the United Nations is celebrating 50 years of existence and approaching a decisive turning-point in its history. Your election to this high office is cause for joy and satisfaction in the delegation of Benin, on behalf of which I have the great honour of speaking from this world-renowned rostrum. I am pleased to be able to add my voice to those of preceding speakers in congratulating you sincerely and warmly and also in congratulating the members of your Bureau. I am particularly glad in that you represent a country, Portugal, with which Benin is honoured to have excellent relations and valuable cultural ties. It is my belief that your experience and your qualities and abilities will help to ensure smooth proceedings and success here in our discussions. You, Sir, are taking over your office from my brother Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, to whom I would like to extend the satisfaction and appreciation of my delegation on the exemplary manner in which he presided over the work of the forty-ninth session. In an international situation marked by doubt, fatigue and an absence of resources, he endeavoured with lucidity, resolve and perseverance to reconfirm the central and irreplaceable role of this Organization in attaining peace and social progress. I would also wish fraternally to extend a well- deserved tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whom I welcome here with us today, a man of conviction and humanism whom we should support and recognize for his efforts and initiatives to translate into action the purposes and principles of the Charter. Our world has changed considerably, and the wheels of history continue to turn inexorably, throwing up their share of upheaval and change, which makes even clearer the need for a universal forum and an instrument as valuable as the United Nations. It has asserted itself as an essential catalyst for international cooperation based on interdependence and an awareness of the common future of mankind. The ceremonies commemorating 50 years of the United Nations give us an opportunity to evaluate what it has done. I shall confine myself to just a few points. There is a saying in my country that whenever we hesitate about how to proceed in life, we should look back over the road we have travelled. So, in that context, I would like to recall that there should be three pillars supporting this Organization, namely: the maintenance of peace and security; economic and social development; and respect for and protection of human rights. I think I am right in saying that, since 1945, peace has in general been maintained. Most States have now gained their sovereignty and their peoples are exercising their rights, and the fundamental nature of respect for human rights has been universally recognized. Yet, there are such deep cracks in the second pillar that the whole building may crumble. Hence the United Nations is now at a critical turning-point in its history. In a world in which economies and markets are being globalized, a world that is almost entirely characterized and united by the communications revolution and the progress made in transport, we soon realized that peace does not simply mean that weapons are silent. Increasing interdependence has not really created a genuine feeling of solidarity. Although this is often said — some of us speaking before the international community every year from this rostrum — it has not prompted collective action to ensure prosperity for all. The three pillars that symbolize the authority of the United Nations and its ability to carry out its mandate must all be strengthened if the building is to continue to stand. I did not mean to turn my back on Benin’s tradition by allowing myself to turn the thoughts of this Assembly towards symbolism, but rather to highlight the reality of the problems we face and the scope of the challenges they throw down before us. Human dignity is what is at stake here. The United Nations can become stronger only by strengthening its second pillar, by promoting action in economic and social areas, by focusing its concerns on development in order to achieve or maintain peace through the promotion of social development. The Organization therefore has a central role to play in preventing mankind from drifting towards new confrontation and impoverishment, and in enabling man to gain greater control over his environment and his fate. The new dynamic in international relations resulting from the end of ideological confrontation is characterized by a search for a new kind of inter-State relationship. As a result, the hotbeds of tension and conflict that have not been quelled are now approaching a solution or are being contained. And yet, there is still such upheaval in some parts of the world that international peace and security are being threatened. I am thinking here of the negotiations between Israel and Palestine. They are the result of resolute action. We know how difficult was the road leading to the establishment of lasting peace in view of the level of distrust and the acute, accumulated suffering involved. Yet, we have high hopes that bitterness and fear will be overcome so that dialogue may continue. We must all encourage dialogue between Israel and the States of the region, and to that end, the good will of all is essential. In Benin, we welcomed the fact that the weapons had finally fallen silent in southern Africa. For the first time in several decades, the region seems to be able to devote all its energies and resources to development activities. Here, we wish to pay tribute to the maturity of the people and leaders of Mozambique who have helped to establish a State based on the rule of law and political pluralism on the basis of free and democratic elections. I can only congratulate the United Nations on what it has done to promote peace in that country. We are all concerned that peace should be strengthened through stability, reconciliation and national reconstruction. Faced with this situation, the international community must, more than ever before, support Mozambique by providing assistance that can recreate an environment conducive to economic development. I also welcome the agreements signed at Lusaka between the Government of the Republic of Angola and UNITA, and on behalf of my delegation I should like to encourage them to live up to the commitments they have made. The positive developments in Haiti are also most welcome. Benin applauds the reinstatement of the legitimate Haitian authorities and the courage and sense of responsibility shown by the President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who has engendered a spirit of reconciliation. We appreciate the efforts made by the Government of Haiti to strengthen democracy in the country by establishing institutions following free elections. We have high hopes that security and stability can thus be re-established and will help to promote economic and 2 social development, the only guarantee of lasting democracy. Unfortunately, however, in other regions, the course of history is still not running smoothly. This is the case in Somalia, Rwanda, Burundi and Liberia, where events would seem to suggest that the protagonists have learned nothing — but they have forgotten nothing either. In Somalia, the absence of any viable State structure has plunged the country into an impossible situation with momentous consequences. The desire to secure advantageous negotiating positions through the use of force has led to continued suffering for the country. In expressing our sympathy for the people of Somalia, Benin wishes to remind the various factions that they must create the conditions for dialogue and national reconciliation and we would urge them to be tolerant. In Rwanda and Burundi, re-establishing the judiciary and establishing public order would seem to be the only means of putting an end to the spiral of violence and encouraging national reconciliation, which is a prerequisite for establishing trust and encouraging the voluntary return of refugees. We cannot deny that the slow pace and the fragility of developments in the situation in those two countries raise fears that the tragic events we so recently deplored may recur at any moment. In Liberia, we welcome the new situation that has emerged from the cease-fire and the establishment of the Council of State. We urge all parties to strengthen the renewed peace by effectively disarming all the factions. The former Yugoslavia is undoubtedly the world stage on which new types of conflict and efforts to limit them are running at the same time. While taking what may seem a dispassionate look at the situation in the Balkans region, we are not insensitive to the fate of millions of women, children and elderly people who are the victims both of new kinds of exclusion and of the irredentism of the peoples of the region. I should like to take this occasion to reiterate that Benin strongly condemns “ethnic cleansing”, no matter who its perpetrators may be, all violations of humanitarian law and all attacks against United Nations personnel. Benin supports the idea of a comprehensive settlement with respect to the consequences of the disintegration of the former Federal Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia. For this reason, I appeal to all the protagonists to put an end to the fighting and to attacks against innocent civilians. The New York agreements of 26 September 1995 between the three major protagonist groups constitute a decisive step towards general and lasting peace in the region, which, I trust, will soon cease to be the powder- keg of today’s world. The deplorable, indeed tragic, situations that I have just described strengthen my conviction that the protection and promotion of human rights and of fundamental freedoms still deserve our full attention. They justify the drafting of new international instruments to complete the existing legal arsenal, so that those who continue to perpetrate cruel and inhuman acts, genocide and “ethnic cleansing” can be punished. In this spirit, Benin supports the establishment of international tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda. But what will all these efforts mean if we do not put an end to the production, accumulation and international transfers of weapons, and if we do not progress towards general and complete disarmament under international control? In this connection, Benin reiterates its unwavering support for all United Nations resolutions relating to the reduction, limitation and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. One of the mandates of this Organization is to make general development efforts the focus of our concerns. Changes in international relations and the liberalization of trade have made us more aware of the many different sectors and players involved in development. The deterioration of our environment has alerted us to the need to focus our behaviour and actions on ensuring the long-term development of future generations. We are both witnesses to and players in the changes we are experiencing today. And yet we are not unequipped to implement the transition to another kind of development, because we have at our disposal the tools for both diagnosis and prevention. There is only one possible approach: the political will to implement our respective commitments. I should like to emphasize that as concerns implementation of their commitments the developing countries in general, and Africa and the least developed countries in particular, have proceeded resolutely towards 3 qualitative political and economic changes. In so doing, they have required enormous sacrifices on the part of their peoples in order to readjust and adapt to new world conditions. We must acknowledge, however, that the commitments to carry out the duty of solidarity have not yet materialized. Benin, of course, fully appreciates the international community‘s support for the developing countries, and particularly for Africa and the least-developed countries in general. However, the assistance provided is far from meeting either the needs or the expectations. I sincerely hope that the results of the High-level Intergovernmental Meeting on the Mid-term Global Review of the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least-developed Countries for the 1990s, which began here in New York on 26 September, will make it possible to overcome these shortcomings. I urge the international community to live up to its commitment to solidarity with Africa by contributing to the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. At the high-level meetings of the Economic and Social Council held in Geneva from 4 to 6 July last, the international community reconfirmed its commitment to contribute effectively to the development of Africa and to the implementation of this New Agenda. It is therefore urgent — and this cannot be said often enough — to reduce the debt burden to a level that would enable us truly to set development in motion. I should like also to invite all States to speed up their respective constitutional procedures for ratifying the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa. The demonstrations organized worldwide at the time of the first World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought bear witness to the commitment of peoples and Governments to tackling seriously this worldwide environmental problem. This commitment must be backed by the depositing of the 50 ratification instruments needed for the entry into force of the Convention in 1996. The first conference of the parties could thus take place in 1997, the year earmarked for the mid-term review of Agenda 21 and of all the recommendations and conclusions of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. Measures must also be taken to speed up the integration of Africa into the international trade system and to help in diversifying economies and encouraging investment. Only in this way will that continent, which has suffered greatly throughout history, be able finally to emerge from the hellish cycle of poverty. Benin is prepared to contribute to making 1996, the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty, an occasion for us to strengthen the moral obligation and duty of solidarity that underlies the struggle against poverty. But our Governments’ actions can be successful only if they are supported by all our partners in development. The year 1996 will also see the holding of the Ninth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), which is being referred to as the “City Summit”. These two major Conferences, whose importance cannot be overemphasized, will provide to the international community an opportunity to assess the progress made in the context of the commitment entered into at Cartagena in February 1992 and of the Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000. However, the preparatory committees for those two Conferences must focus on finding specific solutions rather than short-lived measures and recommendations. I am convinced that development cannot be achieved simply by transferring one model of production and consumption from one region of the world to another. We must go beyond that cliché and base ourselves on a true partnership for development, in which responsibilities would be shared equally. For this reason, Benin welcomes the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the Fourth World Conference on Women. Benin fully endorses the elaboration of an Agenda for Development with a view to the effective implementation of the programmes of action that have not yet been carried out. In conclusion, I should like to express our firm conviction that this session of the General Assembly will make it easier for us to achieve a consensus acceptable to all on ways and means of revitalizing and strengthening the institutions and structures of the United Nations. Let me first extend my heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to the distinguished office from which he will guide the work of the fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. I am confident that his experience and commitment to the noble principles of the United Nations Charter will guarantee that this session will be marked by new vigour, commitment and determination. I wish to express our gratitude also to his predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, for the fine, skilful manner in which he presided over the work of the last session of the General Assembly. The world we live in has been deeply and positively affected by the end of the cold war and national emancipation in Central and Eastern Europe, and Western Asia. Many hotbeds of crisis have been extinguished or are on the way to being resolved, from Eastern Asia and South Africa to the Middle East. However, many problems having a negative impact on international relations remain unresolved, including the crisis in south-eastern Europe. Most disquieting are the dangers of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, especially nuclear weapons. The world is still faced with various forms of terrorism. There is a grave danger resulting from the illicit trade in narcotics. Widespread abuses of human rights continue as do the problems of racism, anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and national and religious intolerance. The solution to the problem of underdevelopment requires more concerted and coordinated efforts. In order to be able to deal with the many problems facing the world, it is necessary to have a vital and efficient United Nations. Following the end of the cold war there was a period of optimism, renewed hope and expectation that the United Nations would finally play the role which had been envisaged for it at the time of its founding, almost 50 years ago. However, we have recently experienced severe disappointment at the inability of the United Nations to fulfil all these expectations; this has resulted in the loss of credibility by the United Nations. The causes for its loss of credibility are many and varied, and among the most important is the failure of many United Nations peace-keeping operations to achieve their assigned goals. This is not to say that there have not been successful United Nations peace-keeping missions; this is evident from the operations in Cambodia and southern Africa. One way in which the peace-keeping or peacemaking missions of the United Nations could be improved is by the establishment of a United Nations military force of a more permanent nature or one that could be assembled quickly, consisting of contingents from specific countries or regional arrangements. Such a force should be constructed in such a way as to make sure that its national contingents acted to implement Security Council resolutions and not to promote the policies of their States. In this regard I wish to express the Republic of Croatia’s interest in providing troops for United Nations peace-keeping operations. However, in order to make the peace-keeping functions of the United Nations more effective it is necessary to reform the body which is primarily responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security — the Security Council. It is also important that the composition of the Security Council reflect the new political and economic realities which have emerged since its formation after the Second World War. Due regard must also be given to proper geographical balance as well as to the increase in the membership of the United Nations. Making the Security Council more representative and democratic will also enhance its credibility as it will then be a more legitimate body representing the will of the international community. This will no doubt serve to facilitate the implementation of its resolutions. In this regard, the Republic of Croatia supports an increase in the number of both the permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council to a point which will not negatively affect its effectiveness. I wish to reiterate Croatia’s support for the admission of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council due to the actual, as well as potential, contribution of these two countries to the cause of international peace and security and to other aspects of the work of the United Nations. Additionally, serious consideration should be given to the possibility of one or more developing countries from Asia, Africa or Latin America being granted permanent-member status. Despite the various setbacks which I have already referred to, the United Nations still has a critical role to play in resolving many of the world’s problems, especially in regard to the environment and sustainable development. 17 In addition to economic well-being, equal attention should be paid to respect for the human rights of each and every individual. In this regard, Croatia reiterates its support for the work of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mr. José Ayalo Lasso, and commends the manner in which he has been performing his duty. As a further method of combating gross violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, Croatia supports the establishment of an international criminal court in the form of an apolitical legal organ of the international community. By its geographical position, history, socio-cultural features, and political and economic orientation, the Republic of Croatia is a part of both Central Europe and the Mediterranean. As a European country in transition, Croatia has already achieved significant progress in the development of democratic institutions and adherence to internationally accepted standards concerning the rule of law and protection of human rights. It is also worth noting that the economic situation has been stabilized and even improved during the past two years, despite the extremely difficult conditions caused by Serbian aggression. Our national development strategy is outward-oriented, while the social policies and legal framework are based on the principles of pluralistic democracy, including an open-market economy. As a country of European civilization and tradition, Croatia’s strategic, political, economic and social orientation is clearly focused on active participation in the process of European integration. Croatia’s harmonization with European legislation and criteria represents a crucial part of its national development. While Croatia is already a member of various European intergovernmental and interregional organizations, the forging of closer relations with the European Union, as well as full membership in the Council of Europe, are the basic pillars of Croatia’s European policy. However, Croatia will seek to adopt an approach to reflecting a balance between its European orientation and its wider global cooperation on a multilateral and bilateral basis. The Republic of Croatia endeavours to contribute to lasting peace and durable stability in south-eastern Europe, which can be achieved only by the normalization of relations among all States based on full and strict respect for and adherence to the principles of the inviolability of international borders, the territorial integrity of all States and the rights of minorities. Croatia has effectively assumed its role as an indispensable factor in the search for peace, stability and security. In this sense, Croatia will continue to cooperate constructively with the relevant international forums and leading institutions or countries with a view to finding a political solution to the present crisis in the region. In this respect — and bearing in mind the nature of the crisis and that its underlying cause has been and remains Serbian aggression — Croatia will continue to cooperate closely and coordinate its political, military and diplomatic activities with the Republic and Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the basis of the Washington Agreements and other bilateral agreements and arrangements such as the Split Declaration. This is because one of the prerequisites for ensuring long-term stability and progress for Croatia is the settlement of the crisis in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thanks to the clarity and transparency of its national agenda, the decisiveness of its political leadership and its cooperation with the international community in pursuit of its vital national interests, Croatia has succeeded over the course of several years in reintegrating most of its occupied territories, paving the way for the return of some 110,000 displaced persons and refugees to their homes, as well as in revitalizing energy and transport communications throughout the country. Croatia has also managed in very difficult circumstances to reach reasonable stability and to enjoy increased prospects for further development and the strengthening of the democratic system and institutions, combined with a significant level of economic stabilization. Since the outbreak of the crisis in south-eastern Europe Croatia has constantly advocated a negotiated peaceful solution, with the active support and full participation of the international community, and on the basis of the principles of the United Nations Charter and international law. Special emphasis has been placed on the imperative of fully regulating and normalizing Croat-Serb relations. Future relations between these two States are of paramount importance for lasting stability in south-eastern Europe. At the same time, Croatia is actively contributing to the quest for a solution to the issue of the Bosniac-Muslim people, one that would ensure their national rights and provide stability for the region. Furthermore, in the interests of ensuring long-term security and stability, Croatia has advocated the need for the introduction of the confidence- and security- building 18 measures of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). Croatia has always done its utmost to enable the international community to pursue its peace efforts and has consistently demonstrated utmost restraint in resorting to the use of force. When we had to use force, our military always strove to minimize the loss of life and the extent of destruction and to enable the international community to pursue its peace efforts. Croatian military operations have always been in self-defence and in response to the intransigence and non-cooperation of the rebel Croatian- Serb leadership, to the inability of the United Nations peace-keeping forces to fulfil their mandate, to complete deadlock in international mediating efforts, or to direct provocations and terrorist attacks against civilians from the rebel Serb side. In the aftermath of the liberation of almost one fifth of our country in August, isolated instances of unlawful behaviour and human rights abuses have been recorded. My Government strongly condemns all such individual acts and has initiated proceedings against the perpetrators. Croatia believes that its military operations during the first week of August, on both sides of the Croatian-Bosnian border, have substantially changed the balance of power and in so doing have created a window of opportunity for revitalization of the ongoing peace process. Croatia is of the opinion that the joint effects of Operation Storm, the coordinated activities of the army of Bosnia and Herzegovina and HVO (Croatian Defence Council) units, and the actions of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) rapid reaction force against the Bosnian Serbs, coupled with diplomatic efforts, have finally opened the way to serious and comprehensive peace negotiations, which will eventually lead to a realistic, balanced and lasting solution to the crisis. Croatia fully supports the current United States peace initiative and the increased decisiveness of the international community, manifested particularly by the United Nations and NATO rapid-reaction force operations and pressure against the Bosnian Serbs. Croatia’s major interest with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina is in achieving a lasting peace and just settlement of the conflict that would be satisfactory to the constituent peoples and that would ensure stability along Croatian borders; the survival, safety and dignified life of the Bosnian Croats; and mutually beneficial relations and cooperation between the two friendly neighbouring countries. Therefore, Croatia strongly supports the implementation of the Washington Agreements and the Split Declaration and the strengthening of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its association with Croatia at various levels and in various areas of cooperation. The prerequisites for lasting stability, security and cooperation in the region include a just and lasting solution to the crisis, reconstruction and development of the countries in the region, normalization of relations between all successor States of the former Yugoslavia on the basis of equal succession and introduction of a new regional order as an integral part of the new European security system. It is Croatia’s firm position that the solution for the peaceful reintegration of the remaining occupied territories of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem and the former United Nations Confidence Restoration Operation in Croatia (UNCRO) Sector East must be an integral part of the overall peaceful resolution of the crisis in the region, in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, within the time-frame of the current peace initiative and the expiration date of the UNCRO mandate. Without progress in the solution of this issue, progress in the settlement of the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be envisaged, and neither can any real stabilization of the situation in south-eastern Europe. Deeply committed to peaceful reintegration, Croatia is willing to immediately open meaningful and constructive talks with the representatives of the Serb population in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem that should lead to the re-establishment of Croatia’s full sovereignty, the return of forcibly displaced persons to their homes and respect, in accordance with high European standards, for the minority rights of the Serbs and other minority ethnic or national communities — Slovak, Hungarian, Ukrainian and others — in this area. To this end Croatia has already proposed to the local Serbs and the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, through the good offices of the international mediators, a comprehensive, elaborate and concrete peace plan in the form of a draft agreement on the peaceful reintegration of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western 19 Srijem into the constitutional and economic system of the Republic of Croatia. Implementation of the proposed agreement must begin with the immediate withdrawal of all military and paramilitary groups not originally from this region, to be followed by the disarming and disbanding, under UNCRO supervision, of the military and paramilitary groups composed of persons who reside in the area. Upon signing the agreement on the peaceful reintegration of the remaining occupied areas, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Croatia would recognize each other within their internationally recognized borders and diplomatic relations between these two States would be established at the ambassadorial level. This would be followed shortly by the reopening of the Zagreb- Belgrade highway and railways, the river traffic along the Danube and Sava rivers, the Adriatic pipeline’s outlet to Serbia and telecommunications between Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The proposed draft agreement provides ample evidence of Croatia’s sincere will and disposition to find a negotiated and just solution to the reintegration of the remaining occupied territories, providing for the legitimate rights of Croatia as a sovereign State and of all its citizens, including its minorities. Along these lines, Croatia participated in the Contact Group negotiations in Geneva and New York. Following these negotiations, I am moderately optimistic that the resolution of the crisis and peace in the region can be achieved in the near future. However, there is no doubt that progress towards a lasting, just and comprehensive peace is contingent on the continued, determined and coordinated efforts of the international community in the maintenance of a global approach to the current peace initiative and the continuation of the international sanctions against the Belgrade regime. In the next several weeks the parties and the international community have to work out a framework, in the form of a package, for the peace accord, which should include several interrelated steps: a solution for Bosnia and Herzegovina; a resolution of the issue of Eastern Slavonia leading to its reintegration into Croatia; mutual recognition, within their international borders, between Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; and changes in the sanctions regime against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as the international community deems appropriate. Upon the acceptance of such a plan, the road to lasting peace and stability will be opened. On behalf of my Government, I would like to thank again all the countries contributing troops to the UNCRO operations in Croatia and underscore our appreciation of their efforts to aid the peace process. Croatia deeply regrets the loss of life and the injuries sustained by members of the United Nations force during their mission in Croatia. Their noble sacrifice will always be remembered and cherished by the Croatian people. In the name of my Government, I am particularly proud to thank the General Assembly for having supported the cause of Croatia, most of all by adopting resolution 49/43, concerning the occupied territories of Croatia. I kindly ask the Assembly to remain steadfast in the contribution it has made through this important resolution and through the individual and collective engagement of most Members’ Governments to the search for a just and lasting peace for Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as for the whole of south-eastern Europe. In this changed world that came out of the Second World War — more global and interdependent — Uruguay wishes to reaffirm its confidence in the vital role played by the United Nations in the preservation of peace and in solving the main problems affecting the world, and it wishes to confirm the validity of the enlightened principles of the Charter, as sound today as they were 50 years ago. During this period of time, Uruguay has brought the message of its people and its Government to this Assembly and to the peoples and the Governments of brotherly countries throughout the world. The content of that message has never varied: our conviction that international peace can be achieved only through strict observance of international law and resort to peaceful means of resolving conflicts; our certainty that only a democratic system and scrupulous respect for human rights can ensure the full spiritual and material fulfilment of the individual; and our unfailing trust in this Organization, to whose creation Uruguay contributed half 5 a century ago and to which we have given, and will continue to give, its broadest support. Through all these years Uruguay has consistently held to those principles, contributing with its initiatives and its votes to consolidating peace and ensuring that law and justice take precedence over all else. We were the first to accept without any conditions whatsoever the mandatory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. We are a party to most instruments for the protection of human rights. We have contributed to peace-keeping operations since they first began, and Uruguay is the United Nations Member contributing the greatest number of contingents relative to its population and the size of its armed forces. New realities and new international circumstances mark the post-cold-war world, and the United Nations has had to adapt its functions to the new demands, responding to external circumstances through an imaginative application of the Charter, which has kept the Organization alive and valid throughout its history and has saved it from obsolescence. The international community today faces unprecedented situations. Ethnic and religious fundamentalism, international terrorism and drug trafficking may not be new phenomena, but they have taken on fearful dimensions by virtue of their access to powerful sources of financing and the use of weapons of mass destruction. This makes it necessary for the international community to organize itself efficiently to combat them, even on the battlefield of modern technology. In addition, these factors are combined with new political phenomena, such as the dismembering of multinational States, which has unleashed age-old ethnic and religious rivalries. These facts, together with the increase in the number of members of the Organization, most of them developing countries, and the lead roles played by certain States and regions, justify a reform of certain institutional aspects of the Organization. All Charter reform or constitutional development resulting from established practice should tend to increase the effectiveness of the Organization, avoiding at all costs resorting to formulas which limit its response capacity or which enshrine new inequalities among its Members. On previous occasions, Uruguay has spoken in favour of an expansion of the Security Council, seeking greater democratization in that organ, which is vital for the maintenance of balance and world peace. But the changes made must ensure that while achieving greater transparency and representativeness in that body, that do not have a negative impact on its functioning and efficiency. In any event, the need to carry out institutional reforms should not lead us to blame the frustrations and failures of the Organization on the fact that the instruments for carrying out its tasks are not appropriate. Whenever the political will of States was used to resolve problems, the Organization was able to achieve its objectives without there being any need to change its structure or operation. Our efforts at reform, consequently, should not lead us away from our immediate duty, which is to face with our current means, imperfect though they may be, the serious conflicts which are affecting international peace. We cannot but refer in the first instance to that which affects the countries that emerged from the former Yugoslavia. It has been hard for some of the parties to understand that while a negotiated solution is difficult, a military solution is impossible. In the meantime, the civilian population continues to suffer through the years — a population which has become a permanent target of military action and the victim of brutal manifestations of racial intolerance. Behind this tragedy, and to a certain extent explaining it, lies the sad realization that United Nations resolutions are not being complied with by some of the parties. We believe that the Organization should step up its action, making maximum use of the political and legal mechanisms available to it under the Charter, to prevail upon Governments and authorities, directly or indirectly involved in the conflict, to respect and abide by decisions adopted. There is no doubt that the road to peace may present extraordinary difficulties but it is never blocked entirely, as may be seen from the negotiations to put an end to the long and exhausting crisis in the Middle East. We must warmly congratulate those who have decided to replace weapons with constructive dialogue, and express our admiration for the intelligence with which these negotiations are being conducted, especially the persistence and inspiration with which the parties attempt to overcome, not only the extreme complexity of the problem, but also, above all, the violent opposition which has tried to sabotage the peace process, resorting to the most cowardly and inhumane of means. The results are still far from satisfactory but they are also far from being negligible. The international community is also duty- bound to encourage these efforts. This General Assembly 6 can contribute to this by avoiding including in its resolutions on this item language which may have been appropriate in the past, but which may be irritating at a time when a genuine spirit of peace prevails among all the authorities concerned. The instruments for the second phase of the interim agreement on Palestinian self-rule has been another landmark in the peace process, which the parties in question have been promoting with great resolve. With the signing of this historic agreement in Washington, we can say that we are closer to lasting peace in that tormented region. There is a common thread which runs throughout these conflict situations. It is an element which makes those situations possible and which worsens them, and that is the availability and sophistication of weapons. The international community will not be able to prevent breaches of the peace or avoid their far-reaching implications in terms of the loss of human lives and destruction, unless concrete measures are adopted with regard to regulation of the manufacture and traffic in weapons. It is our duty to revitalize the mechanisms which have been established to this end, and to create new negotiating bodies, were that to be necessary, to achieve concrete results. Many developing countries, including Uruguay, a few months ago decided on the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons as a way of consolidating the process of progressive disarmament in this field. We did so in the conviction of the good faith of the nuclear Powers, which argued in favour of the extension. Unfortunately, after that, underground nuclear tests have continued by some Powers, which has led our countries to lose confidence in the instruments we signed, and has left us with a feeling of frustration and perplexity. A few days ago in New York, concerned over the seriousness of the situation with regard to those tests, the countries signatories of the Treaty of Tlateloco in Latin America and the Caribbean and the countries signatories of the Treaty of Rarotonga in the South Pacific, which established nuclear-weapon-free zones, condemned this situation and reiterated the need to put an end to all types of nuclear tests so as to create a favourable climate for the conclusion of the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty, which is being negotiated at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva. While the end of the cold war has reduced political tension and the risk of global confrontation, there are other developments today that are more insidious but no less threatening to the peace and well-being of nations, such as drug-trafficking and terrorism, and a lethal combination of the two. Uruguay, where fortunately we have not seen the worst manifestations of this problem, has taken part and intends to continue to participate intensively in the cooperative efforts to prevent and punish such acts and related crimes, in order to remedy their adverse effects and to attack their social consequences. We support the convening of an international conference on narcotic drugs to focus on a comprehensive approach to the problem, including the consumption, the production and the trafficking of drugs, related crimes and the social and economic aspects of the problem. We are also undertaking maximum efforts to promote concrete national actions to counteract and fight against this problem, which could threaten our peaceful existence and the stability of our institutions. On another subject, for some time now the factors which adversely affect the economic growth of developing countries have been identified and decried. Their nature and causes and effect have been examined, and formulas have been discussed and proposed to solve those problems, or at least to reduce the intolerable gaps which exist in today’s economic world. After so many years of discussion, the overall picture remains unchanged, although mention could be made of some isolated cases where dynamic centres of development have emerged. The situation of the less advanced sectors of mankind, where poverty and resulting hunger prevail, where there is illness and illiteracy, this continues to be an unacceptable idea. The process of globalization of the world economy and the economic opening that has been developing at the global level in recent years have helped us to modernize some of our production structures. Nevertheless, the instability of the world’s financial markets poses a permanent threat to our economies. The transfer of major financial resources to and from our markets causes great instability in capital flows in the world, leading to concern and uncertainty, and threatens the accumulated efforts of our peoples to establish a more just, more orderly and more stable economic system. Given this situation, we need to find new mechanisms to create a more stable international financial system and a way to predict potential financial crises that do not impose regulations that hinder the capital flows needed for growth and investment. 7 The Group of Seven has pointed to the need to update the way in which the Bretton Woods Institutions operate in the financial sphere. Our countries are willing and entitled to participate in alternative strategies to reform these institutions that are vital to a world economy as globalized as it is today. The establishment of the World Trade Organization marked the end of the longest and most complex negotiations of recent years and a new stage of international trade. If this new stage is going to lead to a more equitable distribution of international trade, all States, particularly those with the largest share in trade, must abide by the new rules of the game. Uruguay hopes that these rules will be respected, that protectionist policies and subsidies will disappear and that barriers impeding international trade liberalization and growth, especially trade in agricultural products, will be broken down, as agreed in Marrakesh at the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. We recognize that as the international situation stands our development will largely depend on our own efforts. We attach great importance to international cooperation for development, but are aware that our problems will not disappear merely through external assistance. Today, the major challenge before us is the need to increase know-how and to apply it to development. Today, the only comparative advantages are those derived from scientific and technological progress, and a country’s relative competitiveness will be directly linked to its ability to generate, adapt and apply its know-how and to provide permanent training for the population. In this context, the countries of the Common Market of the South, known as MERCOSUR, are aware that according to the new world scheme integration processes are a fundamental aspect of an ability to compete efficiently with other economic blocs. We are promoting integration in the context of a philosophy of open regionalism. We are not trying to turn MERCOSUR into an ivory tower — quite the contrary, because as we strengthen and expand it we are trying to promote links with other countries of the region and looking for common ground while respecting the particular nature and modalities of each country. We are also trying to strengthen ties with other areas of the developing world, in particular with our fellow countries of the South Atlantic region. In this context, Uruguay reaffirms the importance of the Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic that was solemnly declared pursuant to resolution 41/11 of 27 October 1986. In this framework, we fully share the aims of this declaration and see the zone as an important instrument for promoting cooperation in scientific, political, technical and cultural areas. We are convinced that security and development are inseparable and interrelated, and that any progress in terms of meeting the objectives of the zone will strengthen cooperation between the States of Africa and of the Southern Cone of America. This commitment is all the more evident in the support given by the States of the zone for the peace processes in Angola and Liberia and the Bicesse and Abuja agreements respectively. Unsolved global problems continue to weigh heavily on our agendas. There is general solidarity with regard to environmental protection, because we have clearly seen what is at stake, namely our common destiny, and have recognized that this is a task we must work at together. Unfortunately, this solidarity has still not been translated into concrete and effective action with a real ecological impact. The physical deterioration of the planet continues unabated. Showing its concern for environmental matters and its willingness to cooperate effectively and tangibly with the joint efforts of the international community, the Government of Uruguay has offered to host the second meeting of the contracting parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held during the second half of 1996. As a coastal country in the southern part of the planet, Uruguay is particularly sensitive to certain forms of environmental degradation such as the depletion of the ozone layer, climate change and the contamination and improper exploitation of the resources of the South Atlantic. Uruguay views the results of the Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks as highly auspicious. We hope that the draft convention adopted will be approved in the near future and obtain the ratifications needed to secure its entry into force, in particular by the countries most heavily involved in catching the fish covered by the convention. In this context, Uruguay expresses the hope that the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, to which our country is a party, will be ratified as soon as possible by the countries that have not yet done so. The general application of the new law of the sea embodied in the Convention can only be of benefit to all States. The 8 system of protection and preservation of the marine environment and conservation and exploitation of its resources are just two of the many benefits to be expected from its universal application. In conclusion, Uruguay reiterates its opposition to the unilateral application by one State of economic or trading measures against another State and therefore urges that an end be put to the economic, trade and financial blockade of Cuba. I wish to end by conveying the Government of Uruguay’s pleasure to the President at his election to preside over the work of the General Assembly in the fiftieth anniversary year. We congratulate him on his eloquent address on the assumption of his post and share the views expressed therein. We are aware of the Organization’s financial situation, but let us not make the mistake of thinking that savings should be made by cutting assistance and cooperation in the sphere of development, taking development in the broadest sense of the word. For every dollar we take away from this field, we shall have to spend two on peace-keeping operations. If we wish to speak in economic terms, it is cheaper to prevent conflict than to have to resolve it later. Clearly, the primary responsibility of the United Nations is to resolve conflicts, but it is much more important to prevent and avoid them. Can a price be put on human life? I wish to reiterate that Uruguay, faithful to its peace- loving and democratic tradition, will continue to participate in the task of building a world free from violence, poverty and intolerance — the world envisioned 50 years ago by the founders of this Organization. I should like to begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session. At the same time, I wish to thank your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy. We are meeting this year at a crucial moment in the history of the United Nations. The fiftieth anniversary of the Organization should be an occasion on which to review the first half-century of the United Nations, but also, first and foremost, to prepare the Organization for its future activities and to address the manifold challenges that are ahead of us. While we commemorate the United Nations fiftieth anniversary, Liechtenstein is celebrating its fifth year of membership in the Organization. When Liechtenstein was admitted to the United Nations, the global situation was undergoing fundamental changes. People around the world hoped that the Organization would be able to work in a comprehensive and more efficient way towards fulfilling the purposes assigned to it under the Charter. Many of these hopes have remained unfulfilled. The optimism that prevailed at the beginning of the post-cold-war era has turned into sometimes heavy criticism and a decreasing confidence in the work of the United Nations. This criticism is not always justified and is sometimes based on a lack of understanding of the functioning of the United Nations or, more often, on a one-sided approach to its activities. The achievements of the Organization in the areas of development, humanitarian assistance, the promotion and protection of human rights and the strengthening and further development of international law, to name only a few, are unique and undeniable. However, it remains a fact that events of the recent past have undermined the credibility of the United Nations in the eyes of many people, and we have to make every effort to restore and enhance the confidence of the peoples that we represent. We must only look back in order to make the best use of the experience we have acquired over the past 50 years and to enable the Organization to respond effectively to the new challenges it faces today. The financial situation of the Organization is beyond any doubt one of the issues that need to be addressed urgently. After many years of serious financial problems, we have reached a stage where the work of the United Nations itself is in jeopardy. Drastic measures had to be taken recently to guarantee the continuation of its daily work. It is of the utmost importance, however, that no 9 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 measures be taken which affect the nature and the efficiency of United Nations activities, which are urgently needed. The efforts to improve and to monitor the administrative and management capabilities must be continued and further enhanced. All Member States have to pay their assessed contributions fully and on time if a durable solution to the current crisis is to be found. We are confident that the Working Group that you, Mr. President, will be chairing, will produce fruitful results. The increasing financial burden that peace-keeping operations impose on national budgets must be alleviated. We are of the opinion that a proliferation of peace-keeping operations has to be avoided, and I wish to emphasize that the concept of preventive diplomacy deserves even more attention than it has received until now. It is obvious that the world has changed. It is also obvious that the challenges for the United Nations have changed. For these reasons, changes have to be made within the Organization in order to enable it to cope with these challenges. We therefore support the efforts to reform, modernize and restructure the United Nations and welcome the process that has been initiated to that effect. Many people wrongly identify the United Nations only with the activities of and the decisions taken by the Security Council. While we must work together in order to promote understanding and knowledge of other United Nations activities, which are equally important, we also have to understand that issues of international peace and security directly or emotionally affect people all over the world. We therefore have to make every effort to enhance the effectiveness and the credibility of the work of the Council. A limited expansion of the permanent and non- permanent membership and improved working methods, as well as enhanced transparency, would certainly make an important contribution in this respect. As a small country, we follow the activities of the pertinent Working Group with particular interest. We are of the view that the work done so far has been very substantial. However, many of the sensitive questions require further discussions. Liechtenstein, like many other countries, has to rely on the universal respect for international law. The United Nations has made remarkable contributions to the further development and strengthening of international law. The adoption of new legal instruments in important areas, however, sharply conflicts with continued and sometimes systematic violations of international law, particularly in the field of human rights, and of international humanitarian law. The establishment of the international ad hoc Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda can prove to be an important element in preventing the recurrence of such violations. It is essential that, for the first time since the Tribunals of Nuremberg and of Tokyo, individuals be held responsible for violations of international humanitarian law. We hope that the work of these Tribunals will be effective and will contribute to the early establishment of a permanent international criminal court. The Liechtenstein Government welcomes the historic decision to make the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) permanent. We have come one step closer to the overall elimination of nuclear weapons, and we express our most fervent hope that the NPT will very soon become universal. We therefore appeal to those States which have not yet ratified the Treaty to do so urgently. We further express our hope that the next step will be the early conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty. Liechtenstein deplores the fact that nuclear tests are still going on and urges all nuclear-weapon States to refrain from any further testing. One of the most remarkable and uncontested merits of the United Nations in its first 50 years lies in the field of self-determination. While some people seem to think that these activities of the Organization are a closed chapter that belongs to the past, others, including the Government of Liechtenstein, are of the view that the potential of the right to self-determination has not been exhausted and offers possibilities to cope with many conflict situations all over the world. We are convinced that the right to self-determination deserves further discussion and development within the United Nations. Liechtenstein has therefore, within the framework of its national activities for the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary, organized two international conferences this year dedicated to this subject. We hope that we can continue to count on the Organization’s interest in this matter, which is of crucial importance for the fulfilment of its purposes. The Fourth World Conference on Women, which concluded in Beijing three weeks ago, reaffirmed that the human rights of women and of the girl child are an integral part of universal human rights. The Liechtenstein Government welcomes the fact that the Conference agreed on a wide range of measures to remove the remaining obstacles to women’s full and equal participation in all spheres of life. The Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action contain a comprehensive plan for the international community to promote the status of women, to the ultimate benefit of society as a whole. It gives me 10 General Assembly 22nd plenary meeting Fiftieth session 13 October 1995 pleasure to announce that the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women has recently been submitted to the Liechtenstein Parliament for approval. The fiftieth anniversary cannot be an occasion for self- congratulation. However impressive the achievements, however disappointing the failures, one thing is certain: there is no alternative to the United Nations, and all Member States have to work together to make the Organization stronger and more efficient. The Government of Liechtenstein remains committed to this goal. Mr. President, my Foreign Minister has asked me to read out his statement on his behalf. “Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate you upon your election to the important post of President of this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that, under your skilful leadership, the General Assembly will write one more significant page in the chronicles of the United Nations. I should also like to express my gratitude to your distinguished predecessor, Mr. Amara Essy, for his valuable contribution to the work of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. “I should like to express particular words of gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts to strengthen peace on Earth. “We have gathered here on this fiftieth anniversary year of the existence of the United Nations, understanding as we do the tremendous significance of the role played by our Organization in the world today. All progressive people welcomed the end of the cold war, rightly believing that it would lead to an easing of nuclear confrontation and an improvement of the political climate on the planet. However, the dissolution of totalitarian systems entailed the emergence of bloody armed conflicts and hot spots around the world. “The world has witnessed with tremendous alarm the continuing military confrontations and tension in the republics of the former Yugoslavia, Tajikistan and the Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan. “For seven years now we have seen open aggression from the Republic of Armenia against the Azerbaijan Republic. Twenty per cent of Azerbaijan territory has been under occupation by the armed forces of the Republic of Armenia. More than one million Azerbaijanis have been forcibly driven from their homes. A serious hotbed of tension has been created in the region and threatens international peace and security. “The Security Council has adopted four resolutions on the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict in which it called upon the aggressor to withdraw, immediately and totally, from the occupied territories. However, the Republic of Armenia has completely ignored compliance with the resolutions General Assembly 21st plenary meeting and as a Member of the United Nations is, in effect, refusing to follow the decisions of one of its major organs. “Almost a year has elapsed since the adoption in Budapest by the Heads of State and Government, members of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), of a decision appointing the co-chairmen of the Minsk Conference on the settlement of the Armenian-Azerbaijan conflict designed to ensure the signing of a major political agreement the realization of which should eliminate all the consequences of the conflict. However, in this case the Republic of Armenia is pursuing a policy of putting forward obviously unacceptable conditions and attempting to impose provisions which would impose in advance a political status on the Nagorny Karabakh region of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Here we are faced with attempts to intimidate us with the possibility of the undermining of the peace-keeping operation in the region. It is, to say the least, unethical to accuse the victim of aggression, of not being willing to compromise on the problem of the liberation of its occupied territories. “Azerbaijan, for its part, is continuously displaying its readiness for constructive cooperation with the mediators in order to bring about a peaceful settlement of the Armenian-Azerbaijan conflict. “We have repeatedly expressed ourselves in favour of a multinational peace-keeping operation of the OSCE for the maintenance of peace on the border between Azerbaijan and Armenia and in the region as a whole. “At the present time discussions are taking place on the mandate and parameters of the peace- keeping operations of that Organization. In connection with the fact that the peace-keeping operation in our region will be the first to be carried out by the OSCE, Azerbaijan has agreed to the provision of technical expert consultative assistance from the United Nations for the success of this operation. “Azerbaijan shares the general understanding that peace-keeping operations should be viewed as temporary in nature and should be used to promote a climate to facilitate the settlement of a particular problem. At the same time, however, we must not lose sight of the fact that settlement is the ultimate goal. In implementing any peace-keeping operation we must strictly abide by the principles contained in the United Nations Charter, particularly the principles of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States and non-intervention in internal affairs. “Peace-keeping operations must be based on an appropriate mandate drawn up with the consent of all the parties involved, and they must be impartial, objective and neutral in character. Azerbaijan agrees with the current and established international practice under which the military contingent of any country participating in a given peace-keeping operation should not exceed 30 per cent of the total for the force. It is also important for the international organs involved in peace-keeping operations to furnish all available information to States and to keep world public opinion informed of the progress of the operation. “The settlement of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan entails strict compliance with these principles. Failing the liberation of all Azerbaijani territory occupied by Armenia, there can be no question of any comprehensive settlement of this conflict. Restoration of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan and the return of refugees and displaced persons to their homes in accordance with international practice are the only bases on which a solution can be found to the problem of the Armenian national minority population in Azerbaijan. “In the context of a settlement of the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict I should also like to draw attention to the principle of the right of peoples to self-determination, a principle that the Republic of Armenia is flouting. The world has not yet found a workable balance between the principle of the right of peoples to self-determination, on the one hand, and the principle of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, on the other. Nevertheless, it is clear that the right to self-determination, as contained in the Charter, is not intended to furnish a pretext for flouting the principle of independence and territorial integrity. “The Republic of Azerbaijan, now a full- fledged member of the world community, has undertaken to abide by all universally recognized norms and principles of international law in its relations with other States. The Republic of Armenia, however, has persistently attempted to use 2 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting the principle of the right of peoples to self- determination as a pretext to legitimize and consolidate its territorial claims and to justify its aggression against Azerbaijan and its occupation of Azerbaijani territory. Indeed, the expansionist circles in Armenia have been implementing such a policy for years. In 1988, when the Soviet Union was still in existence, the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic expelled its Azerbaijani population — some 200,000 persons, a national minority. Immediately following that inhuman decision, the Parliament of Armenia, acting counter to all the norms and principles of international law, approved Armenia’s annexation of the Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan — in other words, it decided to annex a part of the territory of a neighbouring State. “Subsequently, 50,000 persons were expelled from the Nagorny Karabakh region, whose total population numbered 170,000, with the financial and military support of the Republic of Armenia. In addition, Armenian armed forces were used to consolidate the annexation of the Lachin and Shusha districts of Azerbaijan, through which the Republic of Armenia maintains direct communication with the Nagorny Karabakh region of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Through this corridor, cynically referred to as a humanitarian corridor, a river of weapons, ammunitions and human resources flows from the Republic of Armenia. Some 20 per cent of the territory of Azerbaijan is now occupied by Armenian armed forces. Again, this armed expansion is accompanied by a thorough ethnic cleansing' of the occupied Azerbaijani territories and a scorched-earth policy. “The world community must condemn the actions of Armenia in Azerbaijan and call for the full and unconditional withdrawal of the Armenian armed forces from the occupied territories and for the return of refugees and displaced persons to their homes. This is clearly a case in which we are witnessing a total disregard for the provision of the United Nations Charter that calls upon all Member States to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State, or in any other manner inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations.' World public opinion must not be misled as to the true motives for the actions of Armenia, which is cloaking its aggression against Azerbaijan in the lofty principle of the right of peoples to self- determination. “Armenia’s aggression against Azerbaijan has caused enormous suffering and grief to the whole of the Azerbaijani people, who have been forced by the military actions and occupation of the Armenian armed forces to leave their homes, abandon their property and flee in order to avoid falling into the hands of the occupiers. The Azerbaijani Government has been forced to convert many schools, dwellings, sanatoriums and rest homes into housing for refugees and displaced persons. In the territory of Azerbaijan, people are forced to take refuge in tent cities. The normal life of the country has been almost totally destroyed. “We are grateful to the countries and international and non-governmental organizations that have lent active humanitarian assistance to Azerbaijan. The United Nations too has played an important role in this assistance. The activities of the 1995-1996 humanitarian programmes, as presented in the United Nations consolidated inter-agency humanitarian assistance appeal for the Caucasus, include relief projects in the food, non-food, shelter, education and health sectors. However, as the Secretary-General indicates in his annual report on the work of the Organization, only 37 per cent, or $12.8 million, of the requirements pledged for humanitarian activities in Azerbaijan had been received as at 31 July 1995. Other projects carried out under the aegis of the United Nations have addressed capacity-building and the transition from emergency assistance to development. “Azerbaijan has always attached great importance to multifaceted cooperation with the United Nations system in the spheres of social and economic development. Following the dissolution of the USSR our country was confronted with the task of radically restructuring the Azerbaijani economy on a free-market basis. No country can be expected to undertake such a radical restructuring unilaterally without the active cooperation of international organizations, and Azerbaijan has been no exception. So far, we can point with some satisfaction to the continued cooperation between the Government of Azerbaijan and such important international financial 3 General Assembly 21st plenary meeting institutions as the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We have had considerable success in stabilizing the exchange rate of the manat, our national currency. The Government of Azerbaijan has received approval of sizeable loans to assist in a number of major infrastructure projects and for drilling and transporting oil. “Although the majority of the contacts between Azerbaijan and the United Nations system have been successful, we must nevertheless mention some current problems. We have not yet been able to resolve the question of a proper scale for Azerbaijan’s contribution to the regular budget of the Organization that would reflect my country’s real ability to pay. “In Azerbaijan’s brief period of independence some important changes have occurred. The Republic of Azerbaijan has begun to build its free democratic society on the basis of a market economy. We shall continue to pursue that path. It goes without saying, however, that the transition from one social and economic system to another requires a certain amount of time and very careful and meticulous work. “We need fundamental changes in many aspects of the life of the Republic, and corresponding changes in the thinking of our people. After long stagnation, the people have achieved civic freedom; now, they must understand that freedom. This is one of our most important areas of activity. A certain amount of progress has been made with respect to the political life of Azerbaijan. The principles of political pluralism, personal freedoms and freedom of expression, of the press and of conscience are guaranteed. Human rights are effectively protected. A multi-party system is at work. We consistently act on the principle of the primacy of law. Irrespective of sex or national, religious, ethnic or linguistic affiliation, citizens of Azerbaijan enjoy equal rights. “Azerbaijan’s highest legislative body, the Milli Majlis, has adopted a new electoral law, which is a milestone in the development of a democratic society in our country. This law is a further example of how Azerbaijan is proceeding with the building of a democratic civil society. Parliamentary elections in Azerbaijan are scheduled for 12 November this year; this confirms our unswerving policy of strengthening independence and sovereignty. Many countries and major international organizations, including the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and others, have already agreed to act as observers of the elections. I take this opportunity to invite States Members of the United Nations to send observers to the elections in Azerbaijan. “In the social and economic sphere, our purposeful reforms in the political area and towards a democratic society have made it possible to create the preconditions for economic and social change, which is proceeding with success in our country and which is laying the foundation for an early transition to market relationships. The Republic has achieved a certain stabilization of macro-economic indicators and is doing all it can to encourage the development of free enterprise. We have begun a conscientious programme of privatization. Inflation, which had in previous years reached 30 to 35 per cent per month, has now been reduced to near zero. We appeal to the international community and to foreign businesses to increase their investment in the economy of Azerbaijan. We have created all the proper conditions for profitable activities by foreign companies. International consortiums are stepping up their activities; in addition to the Azerbaijan State oil company, these include major transnational corporations. These activities are aimed at joint exploration and development of oil and gas deposits in the Azerbaijan sector of the Caspian Sea. “The 50 years of the United Nations have shown that the peoples of the world can achieve a great deal when they combine their efforts and their will to defend world peace and to achieve the prosperity of peoples. We know that it was concern with preventing another world war that ordained the foundation of the United Nations, and this remains the main task before mankind today. For war annuls all that the efforts of peoples have achieved.” I wish to extend to the President the sincere congratulations of my delegation on his election to the presidency of this historic session of the General Assembly. Botswana and Portugal have enjoyed the best of relations over the years. It is therefore with great pleasure that I assure him of Botswana’s support and cooperation as he conducts the deliberations of this body. Let me also take this opportunity to pay a special tribute to his predecessor, my dear brother and colleague the Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for the skilful manner in which he guided the work of the forty-ninth session. His was a most successful presidency, of which, as Africans, we feel proud. We salute our indefatigable Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and his team of dedicated staff for their selfless service to the international community at the most difficult and trying period in the history of our Organization. The Secretary- General’s tenacity of purpose and his untiring efforts in the search for peace are crystallized in his comprehensive and thought-provoking report on the work of the Organization. Five decades ago no one could have predicted with any degree of certainty the future course of events in the aftermath of the most devastating war on the face of the Earth. It was therefore a feat of wisdom and vision that the founding fathers of our Organization accomplished when they conceived and established, from the ravages of that tragic war, a global Organization that has had such a profound impact on the conduct of international relations and diplomacy. That the Charter of the United Nations has been amended only thrice in its 50 years of existence bears testimony to their foresight and diplomatic skill. The formation of the United Nations captured the imagination of peoples across continents, not only because its Charter promised to protect succeeding generations from the scourge of war, but also because it championed the right of the colonial countries and peoples to self- determination and independence, at a time when that was considered antagonistic to the national interests of the 21 colonial Powers. In addition, the Organization made a commitment “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”. This historic session of the General Assembly offers us a unique opportunity to evaluate the achievements and progress made in the fulfilment of the ideals so brilliantly and boldly expressed by the founding fathers in the Charter. It is time for introspection and reflection on the work of the Organization and a time to institute reforms, as necessary, to attune the Organization to a changed world and the challenges ahead. It is regrettable that the military and ideological rivalry between East and West should have hamstrung the role of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security during the first four and half decades of its existence. Although the world was spared the possible destruction that could have been visited upon it by a third world war, the cold war led to the loss of many lives in regional conflicts across continents — on the Korean Peninsula and in Cambodia, Angola, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Vietnam and the Middle East, to mention only a few. In colonial countries, and in Africa in particular, the struggle for self-determination and national independence was perceived through the prism of super-Power rivalry, which perception resulted in bitter liberation wars. The past five years have, however, seen the birth of a new era, an era of hope for the United Nations, characterized by general goodwill and cooperation in international relations. In other words, we are celebrating 50 years of the existence of the United Nations in a new- found atmosphere of relative peace and stability in the world. We should therefore commit and rededicate ourselves to the purposes and principles of the Charter as we draw the road map for the Organization in the next 50 years. The unity and resolve of the United Nations, particularly as reflected in the facility with which, in the post-cold-war era, the Security Council takes decisions pertaining to the maintenance of international peace and security, has dramatically enhanced the efficacy of the United Nations, a United Nations which has been freed from the shackles of ideological confrontation. The Security Council has indeed scored remarkable successes in the maintenance of international peace and security over the past few years. We have witnessed successes in Cambodia, Namibia, Mozambique, El Salvador and, more recently, Haiti. And this very day an agreement of great import has been signed in Washington, D.C., between Israel and the Palestinians. This new atmosphere of international cooperation has, however, not been without problems and setbacks. The tragedies of Somalia, Sierra Leone and Liberia remain a thorn in the flesh and conscience of the international community. The internecine tribal wars in the former Yugoslavia and in the Abkhaz region of Georgia have remained intractable, and the traumatic civil wars in Afghanistan and Tajikistan continue with total abandon. These problems attest to the fact that all is not well in international affairs. The United Nations must intensify current initiatives aimed at addressing these conflicts. The international community can never be at peace when part of its body politic is being ravaged by conflict and war. As we approach the next millennium, the responsibility falls on the generations that have benefited from 50 years of relative peace, 50 years of the United Nations, to prepare the ground for an even better Organization to serve future generations in the next 50 years and beyond. We should establish a new system of collective security in which unilateralism and the pursuance of narrow national interests for undue advantage should give way to multilateralism and collective responsibility in addressing international problems. Complex peace-keeping operations can succeed only where there is multilateral cooperation and the pursuit of policies which can yield long-term results. Concerted efforts must be made to adopt consistent criteria for the resolution of global problems. The question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council has gained currency in recent years, and for good reason. The United Nations of 50 years ago was definitely different from the United Nations of today. The number of Member States has swelled over the years, bringing in countries of divergent national character and historical backgrounds; and membership in the Security Council must reflect this reality. In other words, the Security Council should be a concentrated reflection of the cultural and philosophical diversity represented in the General Assembly. After all, democracy is about numbers, and the United Nations, including the Security Council, ought to be the best school for the teaching and practice of democratic principles. 22 We should exercise great care, however, in addressing the question of the expansion and restructuring of the Security Council, lest we create new problems in our zeal to solve old ones. We should guard against the Security Council’s remaining or becoming an exclusive club for the pursuance of the policies and strategic national interests of the rich and powerful nations. At the same time, we should avoid making the Security Council a big and unwieldy enterprise which would crumble under its own weight. We should strike the right balance between equitable representation and efficiency and effectiveness. The report of the Secretary-General clearly shows that peace-keeping operations are very expensive. Over the past five years the budget of United Nations peace-keeping operations has grown from an annual figure of approximately $600 million to a staggering projection of $3.6 billion by the end of this year. The United Nations cannot hope to sustain this kind of budgetary escalation. Greater attention must be given to preventive action. Here we agree entirely with the Secretary-General when he states in the “Supplement to An Agenda for Peace” that “It is evidently better to prevent conflicts through early warning, quiet diplomacy and ... preventive deployment”. (A/50/60/para. 26) A multifaceted approach is required to develop a capability, including substantial human and material resources, that would enable regional organizations to detect potential conflict situations and prevent them from breaking out. In this context, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution was established in response to the many challenges facing the African continent in the field of peace-keeping. It is an expression of Africa’s readiness to take effective measures aimed at solving conflicts within the continent. We welcome the support of the Member States, international organizations and individuals that have generously made resources available to the OAU Mechanism, and we urge the international community to make similar contributions. We also welcome the conclusions of a series of conferences on conflict prevention and peace-keeping in Africa sponsored by the British Government, the latest of which was held in Gaborone, the capital of my country, on 7 and 8 August 1995. Botswana is convinced that training, planning and preparation, an effective early-warning system and logistic support are fundamental to the OAU’s capacity to predict and defuse conflicts and, once they have erupted, to undertake peace-keeping operations. The financial support of the international community is crucial if the peace-keeping capability of the African countries is to be realized. The United Nations, in general, should be placed on a firm financial foundation if it is effectively to tackle the mammoth tasks facing the world today, including assistance to regional arrangements in conflict prevention and peace-keeping. The question of the financial emergency in which the United Nations so often finds itself, because of failure by Member States to honour their financial obligations to the Organization, should not be allowed to fester into the next century. It seems logical, at least to Botswana, that the decisions and resolutions which we adopt as Member States, and which have financial implications, should be accompanied by a commitment to make prompt and regular contributions to the various budgets, programmes and funds of the Organization. Otherwise there is no sense in adopting such decisions and resolutions. As stated earlier, the resources needed for peace-keeping operations alone are such that every Member State must make its contribution if we seriously expect results from the Organization. We cannot talk about the maintenance of international peace and security without reference to nuclear proliferation, because of all weapons of mass destruction, nuclear weapons pose the greatest threat to international peace and security. In this regard, Botswana is satisfied with the outcome of the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). The States Parties not only agreed to extend the Treaty indefinitely, but also adopted the principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament and committed themselves to strengthening the review process for the Treaty. We were disappointed that some nuclear Powers resumed testing immediately after the conclusion of the Conference. The States Parties further committed themselves to complete negotiations, no later than 1996, on a universal, legally binding and internationally and effectively verifiable comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty. The onus now rests on nuclear-weapon States to honour their end of the deal. My delegation firmly believes that the only way to protect the world from the scourge of nuclear weapons is through their complete elimination. 23 The contribution made by the United Nations and its specialized agencies in the field of health, especially in the developing countries, has been most impressive. Life- threatening diseases such as polio, tuberculosis, smallpox, malaria and river blindness, to name but a few, have largely been eradicated in most parts of the world. The other visible benefit of the work of the United Nations in development has been the transfer of technology, especially to the developing countries, resulting in improved sanitation, education, human resource development and food production and storage. Currently, the United Nations is spending millions of dollars on research and related expenditure on the AIDS pandemic, which is threatening the very existence of humankind and is posing a serious threat to the economic development of many nations. It is our sincere hope that the world will quickly find a cure to save humankind from the scourge of this pandemic. We are concerned that in recent years the resources available to some specialized agencies of the United Nations have been declining. This has negatively affected their contribution to economic development in the developing countries. It is clear from the report of the Secretary-General that the core resources of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have been decreasing since 1992, and this has resulted in national indicative planning figures in developing countries being reduced by 30 per cent from their original levels. This is an unfortunate trend indeed for developing countries, considering that the UNDP is the agency of the United Nations charged with responsibility for the financing and coordination of technical and development assistance. And the negative impact this trend has had in the execution of development projects and programmes in the developing countries cannot be overemphasized. It is imperative that the ongoing dialogue on the reform of the United Nations give due consideration to the important role that these agencies and programmes play in the improvement in the living standards of peoples in the developing countries. The reduction of the administrative costs and the rationalization of the operations of these organizations should be carried out at the expense neither of their capacity to deliver the goods and services nor of the quality of their product. In this regard, I wish to reaffirm the decision the African Ministers of Industry took in Gaborone, Botswana, on 8 June 1995, in which they appealed to the international community, particularly the developed countries, to support the maintenance and strengthening of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) to enable it to continue participating actively in the industrialization of Africa. The past five years have witnessed major developments in the social and economic fields. The international community has made great efforts in addressing issues of international concern in these areas. In this regard, the successful holding of the World Summit for Children, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the World Conference on Human Rights, the World Summit for Social Development and, most recently, the Fourth World Conference on Women are illustrative. While the holding of these conferences in itself deserves commendation, the international community should not be satisfied merely with summitry. It should strive to adopt declarations and plans of action which are realistic and implementable. Above all, there should be a genuine commitment to providing the necessary resources for the implementation of these declarations and plans of action. It is now four years since the General Assembly, in recognition of the difficult social and economic situation prevailing in Africa, adopted the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa. At its high-level- segment meeting held in Geneva from 3 to 6 July this year, the Economic and Social Council concluded that progress in the implementation of the New Agenda had been slow and insufficient, and reaffirmed that success depended on the full support of the international community. It is clear that while the primary responsibility for economic development in Africa rests with the African Governments and peoples themselves, there is still an absolute need for the support of the international community. One of the priority areas of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa is regional cooperation and integration. In this connection, we in southern Africa are engaged in efforts to ensure development through regional cooperation. The Southern African Development Community (SADC), after 10 years of rehabilitating and developing infrastructure, has embarked on closer cooperation and integration aimed at, inter alia, free movement of goods, capital, services and people. One of the recent major developments in the building of the community was the accession of the Republic of Mauritius to SADC at the organization’s summit in August 1995 in Johannesburg, South Africa, thereby bringing the membership of SADC to 12. We are 24 aware that we have set ourselves a difficult task as a region, but there is no alternative to this path of collective self-reliance if our region is to survive in the current competitive international economic environment. We therefore call upon the international community to continue its support for SADC and its programme of action. To conclude, I wish to reiterate that this historic session of the General Assembly offers us an opportunity to evaluate the achievements, review the lessons of the past and chart a course for the future of our Organization. An important component of this introspection and reflection on the work of the United Nations should be the improvement of public awareness of the United Nations, building a wider constituency and demonstrating that the Organization will continue to be relevant in the years to come. 