The delegation of the Republic of the Congo wishes to express to the President its warmest congratulations on his election to lead the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. My country is particularly pleased by this choice, as it attests to the international community’s recognition of the constant and active commitment of his country to ensuring the triumph of the ideals of peace sought by the United Nations. I have no doubt that under his guidance this session will help humankind take new strides towards peace and progress. To his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, I would like to express our great appreciation for all he did in spite of the trying international conditions, which were continually complicated by human actions. Finally, from this rostrum, my delegation wishes to welcome the tremendous efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali over the past five years. All his work has contributed greatly to the specific efforts of Member States to ensure that our universal institution is better able to meet the many challenges of our times and more likely to avail itself of the many opportunities of the coming century to ensure that humanity will prosper. The idea of humankind prospering leads me to wonder whether such a phenomenon can become universal at a time when, despite the efforts of the United Nations there are so many differences between nations around the world, so many contradictions and conflicting interests between rich and poor countries and, in Africa in particular, between those who wield political power and those who seek it, frequently using armed force. However, it must be emphasized that far from being the by-product of a sombre period in the history of humankind, the United Nations remains after more than half a century, the best instrument for achieving and consolidating peace, for the progress of humankind and for preserving diversity around the globe. It also remains a place of legal equality between nations and a crucible of the ideals of humanism in which the interests and the destinies of all continents and all peoples should be fused but not confused. This being said, the vision of the founding fathers of the United Nations is yet to become a reality. This is possible only if Member States are truly committed to striving for such ideals. Is it Utopian for the increasingly fragile nations to do this when they are trying to find their own equilibrium? Unfortunately, it is very tempting to say yes, as our world is increasingly divided between those who have knowledge and wealth and those who are sinking in ignorance, disease, war and poverty. In saying this to this Assembly, I, who come from a continent on the brink of oblivion, am not telling anyone anything new. I beg the Assembly’s indulgence to repeat the same prayer, the same cry of distress, already voiced here, now and in the past, by our eminent predecessors. They have said many times, more eloquently than I can, that Africa, 51 years later, is an ailing continent at whose bedside the commonly held notion of international solidarity should be translated into resolutions and quickly followed by actions. The wealthiest countries will then have helped thousands of human beings to join the modern era through scientific and technological progress. This is a major challenge that calls for foresight, humanism and the mobilization of the richest countries if our world is to be in a better position to deal peacefully with the stakes of the future in the North and the South. In this connection, the process of the democratization and economic integration of Africa should be further encouraged and supported by the international community. This is the basis for liberating all the creative African forces that used to be held in check by dictatorial regimes that were not well disposed to fostering intellectual development. The end of dictatorial regimes in certain African countries and the spread of the democratization process in Africa does not automatically mean the establishment of truly democratic institutions, as the democrats in countries with democratic systems may have wished. Caught between seeking its future and reconciling the present with its past, Africa must, with universal support, find modern institutional means of curbing the political tension that frequently results from tribalistic or 13 clannish view of power, which in turn results in the civil wars that so hamper the continent in its march towards peace. Seen in this way, democratic pluralism should be a measure of our march towards progress and, at this stage, make peace the stabilizing and constant factor of democratic institutions. It should also, and above all, ensure that peace is a decisive factor in human development in Africa. Our continent can no longer take democracy to mean the mechanical imposition of some model of democratic institutions while forgetting our historical baggage or giving in to the temptation to undo with the stroke of a pen the bases of our social and cultural values. It was by seeking a true balance between peace and democratic institutions that the President of the Republic of the Congo was able to restore peace in our country after two years of civil war, following the democratic elections that brought him to power. By this same philosophy, having integrated members of the major opposing political party into the Government of the Republic, Mr. Pascal Lissouba supports the idea of a necessary period of democratic transition. This period is one of adapting the various political actors to the needs of the democratic regime, particularly to the principle of political change-over with the preservation of our values based upon sharing, solidarity and respect for authority. We are convinced that an approach based on the concept of participatory democracy will make it possible to reduce the sources of conflict between those who have been elected by the people and those who have lost in democratic elections without affecting in the least the rules of the democratic regime, particularly the principles of equality, liberty and the right of the people to choose their main leaders. We think that African democracy, freed from the dangers of political individualism, the temptations of power for oneself and the torments of tribalism, even with the legacy of political systems of the past, can become a factor for pacification, a fairer distribution of the fruits of collective efforts and social and economic progress. In this vision, the present weakness of our political systems can be regarded as a phase in the democratic transition to a modern developed Africa only if the international community fully realizes that democracy cannot prosper in poor countries, where politics were for so long the road to social success, without exposing our citizens to the political games of those for whom the advent of democracy and its attendant competitive elections mean the end of the eminent position they enjoy in society thanks to the exercise of political power. The various civil wars that repeatedly cast a shadow over our continent are sad testimony to this reality. Therefore, assistance to promote economic development in African countries that are committed to the democratization of their institutions will result in the emergence of new political classes that are protected from need and that will be more likely to regard politics as a means of governing a community of men and women who are bound by a territory and a common destiny than as the only means to get ahead in an economically poor environment. As the Assembly can imagine, the economic development of Africa is a decisive factor for stability, development, pacification and democratization. The current world economic situation is clear evidence that globalization is inevitable. However, globalization could also have serious drawbacks if measures are not adopted to rectify fundamental imbalances. Increased competition means poor countries, particularly those in the sub- Saharan region, will risk losing more market shares and will be increasingly marginalized. If it is first and foremost up to the African countries to demonstrate that their marginalization is determined only by fate and that their current situation is merely one of those tragic aftermaths with which history has frequently sprinkled the course of human events, then it is also up to the international community as a whole, in active solidarity, to make a special commitment to supporting the efforts of the African countries to deal with the challenges before them. This is why I must emphasize the role of international cooperation and, particularly, the importance of official development assistance for our countries. This assistance, important in principle, should be enhanced with action, in accordance with commitments that were entered into, in order to meet the needs of the poorest populations and to make Governments better able to meet their obligations. Unfortunately, the decrease in such aid runs counter to this view. My country is pleased to note the Secretary- General’s Special Initiative to help Africa, which reinforces the United Nations New Agenda for the 14 Development of Africa in the 1990s. The mid-term review falls far short of our expectations, however. The Congo supports the recommendations emerging from that assessment and hopes that the international community will do its utmost to respect its commitments towards Africa. Earlier I mentioned the tragedies of the African peoples caused by civil war. My country, the Congo, which since March 1995 has presided over the Standing Advisory Committee of the United Nations on Security Questions in Central Africa, would like to say how pleased it is to note that in Angola, as well as in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the parties are endeavouring to implement the peace agreements and are thus enjoying the support of the international community. We must welcome the efforts of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to settle the Liberian conflict, and we are pleased to note the signing of the new peace Agreement, which, in the light of current political developments in that country, gives us reasons for hope. However, we are deeply concerned by the situation in some other parts of the world. The recent, spiralling acts of violence in the Middle East and the number of civilian casualties have weighed heavily on the peace process. The Republic of the Congo emphasizes the importance of an early resumption of dialogue, with a view to continuing the peace process in the Middle East. The Republic of the Congo welcomes progress in nuclear disarmament, particularly the opening for signature last 24 September of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). This historic act strengthens the extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and will promote international relations based upon peaceful coexistence and trust between States. This is the course of action chosen by African countries in the Pelindaba Treaty, which makes Africa a nuclear-free zone. We must express our deep concern over the situations in Africa in which peace is threatened daily, both within national borders and between States. By establishing the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, the General Assembly has established a cooperative framework that will enable 11 States from Central Africa to engage in dialogue in order to build confidence among themselves and establish their own machinery to facilitate the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts in the subregion. The first summit of the Heads of State and Government, held on 8 July 1996 in Yaoundé, Cameroon, led to the signing of a non-aggression pact. We want to express our sincere thanks to the countries, particularly Japan, that have contributed to the special trust fund to implement the Committee’s programme. That fund made it possible to hold in Yaoundé, under the auspices of the United Nations, a seminar for training specialized units of peace operations. I would also like to express the Committee’s thanks to President Julius Nyerere for his role in finding a peaceful solution to the Burundi crisis. The Government of the Congo calls upon all parties to the conflict in Burundi, a fraternal country and a member of the Advisory Committee, to regain control of the situation and to create through dialogue conditions for a return to peace and national reconciliation. Before concluding, I would like to mention some recent developments in the economic and political situation in my country. Since the National Forum for the Culture of Peace organized with the support of United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in Brazzaville in December 1995 and the signing of a peace pact among the various political parties, we are more than ever determined to address the most crucial issues before our country, namely, consolidating peace and combating poverty. At the initiative of His Excellency President Pascal Lissouba, all the Congolese political forces have signed a framework agreement on census-taking with a view to prepare the second presidential election of our democratic era. The recently appointed Government is endeavouring to organize these elections in transparency, peace and respect for deadlines. In order to meet its commitments the Government of Congo will be able to count on the United Nations, friendly countries and all those who promote the consolidation of democracy in Africa. The signing on 20 June of a strengthened structural adjustment mechanism with the International Monetary Fund ensures that our people will support an economic and social recovery programme despite the many sacrifices it will entail. These efforts will be pursued with the same commitment in the hope that our country will receive the support of the international community at the round table of donor countries to be held at Geneva in November. Congo, freed from the burdens that have delayed its development for so long and mortgaged its future, will finally be able to offer its people the peace and progress for which they have been waiting so long.  ﻿Allow me to extend the warmest congratulations of my Government to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session on his election. I would also like to express our deep appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, whose leadership during the fiftieth session was a valuable asset for the Organization. I also seize this opportunity to express my deep appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his dedication to his duties since 1992. The Foreign Minister of Ireland, as President of the Council of the European Union, delivered a statement to which my Government fully subscribes, as it does to the Union’s memorandum. I would like, however, to elaborate further on some issues that are of particular interest to my country. Let us remember the message delivered by the world leaders during the special commemorative meeting of this body: the Organization needs to undergo a serious reorganization in order to be ready to confront the challenges of the years ahead. The political commitment of the Member States and the contribution of adequate resources constitute two fundamental prerequisites for the success of the United Nations. Unfortunately, few noteworthy proposals have been put forward concerning the comprehensive modernization effort to enable the Organization to become more efficient and transparent in the fulfilment of its functions while rationalizing the use of its resources. It is the Member States that have endowed the United Nations with its current features. Even if the Organization’s administrative weaknesses were fully remedied, the power of extensive correction and long-overdue reform lies not in this building, but in our own capitals. At this stage, we are faced with two alternatives: either curtail demands on the United Nations, giving it a reasonable chance of carrying out reduced policies within its existing resources, or recognize the need to improve its capacities and grant it greater functions, as well as the necessary means. Greece strongly advocates the second path, because the need for the world Organization is growing, not shrinking. Year by year, we move closer to menacing demographic, socio-economic and ecological thresholds. The only chance we have to deal with transnational problems is to work out transnational 4 responses. We need to cooperate constructively towards common ends. It would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, for the United Nations to face the current financial crisis if Member States were to deprive the world Organization of the resources and assets that they have contractually pledged of their own free will. In this context, it should be stressed yet again that no amount of savings will, by itself, permit the United Nations to be solvent, and that none of the Member States, in particular those that play a major role in the Organization’s decision-making process and in the definition of its activities, should have second thoughts when it comes to footing their part of the bill. Let us be clear: the whole reform is endangered by the looming atmosphere of imminent financial collapse. Even worse, the United Nations, and all the principles that it stands for, are exposed to the danger of being discredited, perhaps forever, even in the eyes of its warmest supporters. This is a much more fundamental issue than improvements to specific parts of the system, welcome and needed though the latter may be. Earlier this year, the European Union outlined a comprehensive package to address the financial crisis. Furthermore, Greece, on a national basis, responded positively to the Secretary-General’s appeal and decided to increase its annual contribution to the peacekeeping- operations budget, thus moving on a voluntary basis from Group C to Group B of countries that contribute to the financing of the Organization’s peacekeeping activities. As a result, our contribution will increase by 500 per cent by the year 2000, when the process of gradual reallocation will have been completed. It has become increasingly fashionable to argue that the idea of a world community is alive in the human imagination, though not yet in the world of action; that the concept of collective security has failed to take root because it does not reflect the spirit of the age; that the public multilateral approach cannot be effective in conflict resolution, because there are no collective solutions to individual crises; and that behind-the-scenes diplomacy, which pursues relatively modest goals, will always be better at keeping conflict within reasonable limits, because it will compromise between what justice demands and what circumstances permit. In the light of past and recent experience, the Greek people certainly do not have immoderate illusions in this regard. The case of Cyprus is a striking example of the inability of the international community to ensure implementation of clear-cut United Nations resolutions and to tackle the problem of the ongoing occupation of one Member State by another following an act of military aggression. To cite just one other example, Greece is threatened with war in the event it applies the provisions of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which has been signed by all Member States, except for the one that made it clear that it would not hesitate to use force for the maintenance and defence of its vital interests. However, it would be totally wrong to discard multilateralism just because of the persistence of attitudes that assuage consciences without solving the problems. We have to strike a positive balance between vision and reality, because no society, and certainly not the international community, can aspire to human, economic and social development without a stable and legally appropriate framework. Throughout its existence, the United Nations has not just constituted the main, if not the only, incarnation of the global spirit of hope. The principles enshrined in its Charter have established a code of conduct for States, which have the duty to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, to refrain from the threat or use of force, and to settle disputes by exclusively peaceful means and in accordance with international law. Moreover, the Organization itself has often been a successful instrument for the prevention and management of conflicts. If power politics are allowed to be deployed in the pursuit of exclusive and narrow interests in a climate of confrontation, if the world’s resources are shared on the basis of military power rather than of international treaties and conventions, if priority is not given to international law and international cooperation, and if we attempt to evade the responsibilities that we have all undertaken under the Charter, however appealing and convenient that might appear in the short term, we will sow the seeds of chaos, anarchy and rapid disintegration. The United Nations offers the only framework in which to achieve the important objective of enforcing international legitimacy, provided, of course, that it improves its capacity to deal with international problems and especially to create an effective mechanism of collective security. Greek-Turkish relations illustrate the need for such an improvement. The Greek Government sincerely desires the establishment of normal good-neighbourly relations 5 based on the principles of international law and respect for international treaties, which, however, Turkey seems determined to ignore. The Turkish Parliament unanimously adopted a resolution on 8 June 1995, which empowers the Government to use military force in case Greece exercises its legal right to extend its territorial waters in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Moreover, the Turkish Government adopted the contents of this resolution in direct violation of the United Nations Charter, which forbids the use of force or the threat of the use of force in international relations. Even worse, in contravention of the Treaty of Lausanne and the Treaty of Paris, Turkey laid claim at the beginning of this year to the Imia islets in the Aegean Sea, which are Greek sovereign territory, and even supported this claim by military means. This sets a very dangerous precedent for the entire region. Turkey is attempting to subvert the territorial status quo established more than 70 years ago and is backing its claims with the use of armed force. Furthermore, the Foreign Minister, Mrs. Ciller, in her capacity as Prime Minister, claimed in February that 1,000 Greek islands and islets in the Aegean are Turkish, and that if Greece attempted to contest this “fact”, Turkey would consider it a casus belli. A few days later she raised the number to 3,000. Greece has repeatedly called on Turkey to have recourse to the International Court of Justice concerning the Imia islets. Turkey, on the contrary, has lately challenged Greek sovereignty, even over the inhabited island of Gávdhos, south-west of Crete in the Libyan Sea, and despite the outrageous nature of this claim, it has not unequivocally withdrawn it. We see that Turkey wilfully violates the most basic principles of the international legal order and far from exhibiting any self-restraint, puts forth ever more provocative claims against Greece. My country, on the other hand, not only scrupulously respects international law and treaties, but also demonstrates great self-restraint in its relations with Turkey. There is no better example of this than the fact that Greece has chosen not to react forcibly to the massive violations of Greek airspace and the constant overflying of Greek territory on the part of Turkish warplanes. This responsible stance should not, however, be misinterpreted in any way. On the contrary, and despite the absence of any real will on the part of international community to uphold the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter, Greece is absolutely determined to protect its sovereign rights by all legitimate means, and the threat of force will not dissuade it from doing so. As to the Cyprus issue, it is widely admitted that the status quo is unacceptable. Nevertheless, no progress has been achieved in the course of the last 22 years. Turkey, provocatively defying consecutive Security Council resolutions is still occupying by force a considerable part of the island. At the same time, Turkey is flagrantly violating basic human rights and freedoms of the Cypriot people, while engaging in systematic plunder of the island’s cultural and religious heritage. Moreover, Turkey continues to systematically promote the illegal and condemned practice of establishing settlers on the island. The time has come to reach a just and viable solution to the Cyprus problem based on the relevant United Nations resolutions and providing for a bicommunal bizonal federation with a single sovereignty and international personality and a single citizenship, while safeguarding the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Cyprus. The prospect of Cyprus joining the European Union is indeed an important new development, which creates conditions that should facilitate a comprehensive settlement of the issue. The period until the start of the accession talks should in no way be left unexploited. At the same time, the Greek Government welcomes any new ideas and initiatives, whatever their origin may be, which would contribute to a solution within the framework of the United Nations resolutions. A basic factor for achieving a breakthrough, in our opinion, is the coordination of all initiatives by the Secretary-General and his Special Representative. Meanwhile, the tension lingering on the island involves serious risks and creates additional complications which render the efforts for a settlement more arduous. Turkey and the pseudo-state, taking advantage of a peaceful demonstration by Greek Cypriots, proceeded a few weeks ago, with the active involvement of the extremist terrorist Turkish group the Grey Wolves, to implement a meticulously prepared plan which was crowned by the murder in cold blood of two young Cypriots and the injuries sustained by many others, United Nations peacekeepers included. The aim was undoubtedly to demonstrate the existence of an alleged international boundary on the island. It was also to support the Turkish claim that the two communities cannot live peacefully side by side and that the presence of the Turkish occupation forces is therefore necessary for the protection of the Turkish Cypriot community. But the truth is that both 6 communities can indeed coexist peacefully. So it was felt necessary to call in extremist elements from mainland Turkey in order to implement this scenario and to try to create mistrust between the communities. In the wake of those recent tragic developments we steadfastly believe that the adoption of President Clerides’ proposal for the demilitarization of Cyprus, a proposal whose importance has already been widely acknowledged, will decisively contribute to defusing tension and will at the same time meet the security requirements of all communities living on the island. In a broader context, the search for a just and viable solution to this complex international problem requires decisiveness and perseverance. If the bicommunal dialogue is to have any chance of success, a minimum common ground is indispensable, based on the relevant United Nations resolutions. But if the other party does not show the necessary political will, the international community should at last live up to its political and moral responsibilities. It should take action without delay and try to convince Turkey to abide by international law and withdraw its troops from the island. With regard to the Balkans, Greece’s policy in the area is guided by the principles of the maintenance of stability, peace and security, the inviolability of internationally recognized borders and full respect for human rights, including those relating to national minorities, in accordance with the relevant principles of the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Greece supports the establishment of good- neighbourly relations and the development of close economic ties with and among all Balkan countries. At the same time, our systematic cooperation with the countries of the Balkan peninsula contributes to the achievement of their long-term goals of economic and political rapprochement with the European Union and its institutions. We fully support and actively promote the European orientation of these countries. Moreover, Greece has supported all international initiatives aimed at further promoting Balkan regional cooperation, such as the conference of ministers of southeastern Europe — which convened this year in Sofia and which will meet again in Thessaloniki in June of next year — the European Royaumont initiative and the United States southeast European cooperative initiative. We believe that in their complementarity, these efforts contribute to the stability, security and prosperity of the area. In the context of regional cooperation I should also mention the Greek initiative for trilateral meetings of the ministers for foreign affairs of Greece, Bulgaria and Romania, which took place at Ioannina, Greece in 1995, and, after that, in Varna, Bulgaria, on 16 and 17 March 1996. The aim of these meetings is to bolster subregional cooperation, mainly in the fields of transport, telecommunications and energy, as well as in the development of infrastructure. Greece was one of the founding members of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) organization. Greece recently became a member of the Parliamentarian Assembly of the BSEC and participates actively in this initiative that encompasses countries from both the Balkans and the Black Sea area and which can make an important contribution to the development and stability of the wider region. One important achievement among others is the establishment in Thessaloniki of the BSEC Bank of Trade and Development which, is expected to start functioning soon and contribute to the implementation of specific projects of great interest to the region. I will now try to give a brief assessment of my country’s bilateral relations with each individual Balkan country. In its relations with Albania, Greece actively pursues the development of good-neighbourliness and cooperation in all fields, based on the respect of sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as full respect for human rights, including those relating to national minorities, in accordance with the principles of the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The Greek minority in Albania constitutes a bridge of friendship and cooperation between the two countries. To this end, encouraging steps are being undertaken by the Albanian Government. Greece has actively supported Albania in its efforts for reconstruction and development and has backed its association with international organizations. The visit last March of the President of the Hellenic Republic to Tirana and the signing of a treaty of friendship and cooperation between the two countries opened a new chapter in their relations for the benefit of the two peoples. Greek-Bulgarian relations have continued their fruitful and constructive development marked by exchanges of visits at all levels. Recent crucially important agreements — among them one concerning the 7 opening of three new border check-points and another on the waters of the Nestos river — give true meaning to their cooperation in the field of infrastructure, while being of decisive significance for the future development of the region's European orientation. Greece’s relations with Romania have reached a high level during the last years. Visits at all levels, including one by the President of the Hellenic Republic, have taken place frequently and close and broad cooperation in the economic and cultural fields has been achieved. Greece’s goal is the establishment of close and friendly relations with all countries that have emerged from the former Yugoslavia. The traditionally close relations of Greece with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will be further strengthened through enhanced economic cooperation, especially following the suspension of the United Nations embargo, which inflicted heavy losses on the Greek economy also. A multi-faceted development of their cooperation will help to redress the past. Greece’s relations with Croatia and Slovenia have followed a steady upward trend. Greece has a great interest in the dynamic development of its relations with those two countries in all fields, and I am glad to acknowledge their positive response as well. With regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Greece fully supported the Dayton Peace Agreement and has actively participated in the efforts to implement it fully. Timely and full respect of this Agreement is the best guarantee of the preservation of the integrity, sovereignty and multiethnic character of that Republic. The efforts of the international community to achieve peace in Bosnia must succeed. First must come the constitution and proper functioning of the joint organs of the Republic in order to expedite the return to full normalization of life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Greece has established diplomatic relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina and participates in reconstruction plans with substantial economic aid. Greece expresses the wish that negotiations taking place with The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia under the auspices of Mr. Vance on the issue of the name of that Republic will finally meet with success, so as to open the way for a full normalization and the dynamic development of relations between our two countries. The Middle East peace process is currently at a critical crossroads. It is with shock and dismay that my Government is following the latest dramatic developments in the West Bank and Gaza. We express our deepest sorrow at the deaths that have occurred and our grave concern about the future of the peace process. Greece urges all parties to demonstrate the utmost restraint and to refrain from any action which might lead to a further escalation of violence in the occupied territories. In particular, they must step back from any action that is bound to rekindle deep-rooted sentiments of mistrust and enmity on both sides. There is no alternative for the peoples in the region other than a peace based on the principle of land for peace. There is no alternative to the peace process. If this process stagnates, there is a danger that it will unravel. There is an urgency for both parties to resume efforts to fulfil earnestly their agreed obligations. Greece calls on the parties to resume negotiations immediately on the basis of the principles already accepted by them in the Madrid and Oslo agreements. We consider it of the utmost importance that the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement be fully implemented, and that the talks on the final status of the Palestinian territories — including Jerusalem — are speedily concluded together with the solution of the two outstanding problems, namely, security for all and social and economic development. Failure to proceed could lead to grave consequences as far as peace and stability in the whole region are concerned. Peoples of the region should be guaranteed a secure life within internationally recognized and safe boundaries. In this context, Greece believes that the international community must spare no effort to create a solid basis for the political and economic survival of the Palestinian National Authority, thereby providing a source of hope for the Palestinian people. Greece will continue to support this effort actively. We are of the view that the peace process could be substantially promoted if those States of the region which are directly concerned would join forces with those actively participating in it. We urge the implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978) on Lebanon. Greece, who has actively participated in the Middle East peace process since its beginnings in Madrid, will continue to offer every possible support and assistance to the bilateral and multilateral negotiations towards a comprehensive, final and just peace. The expansion and improvement of the representative character of the Security Council constitutes one of the most urgent needs for reform in the United Nations system. While ongoing discussions have been focusing on adding to the permanent membership in 8 order to reflect changes in the global balance since 1945, as well as on the right of veto and its use, we should not disregard the long-term beneficial effects of allowing more nations to participate in the decision-making process of this critically important body. In this context, the Greek Government has decided to present its candidature for one of the two non-permanent seats allocated to the Group of Western European and other States in the Security Council for the period 1999-2000. It should be noted that Greece, a founding member of the United Nations, is one of the very few Western countries that have served only once as a non-permanent member of the Council, and that was more than 40 years ago. Greece is located at a crossroads in the Balkans and southeastern Europe, a region that should be given the opportunity to be represented on and to participate actively in the Council. My country’s firm and unconditional commitment to the peaceful settlement of disputes, in accordance with the fundamental principles of international law and the Charter of the United Nations, offers all the necessary guarantees that its election will indeed serve the cause of international peace and security. On the eve of the third millennium, an affirmation of peace and cohesion among peoples must, more than ever before, constitute the primary legacy to bequeath to future generations. It befits the United Nations to be the depository and guarantor of this legacy. It rests with Member States to make solidarity, security and development their watchwords for concrete action and their battle cry in the fight against discord and injustice.  ﻿It is my pleasure to congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, and to congratulate his friendly country, Malaysia, on his election to that high international post. We are confident that his political experience and diplomatic skill will lead to the success of this session’s deliberations. May I also extend our thanks to his predecessor for conducting the work of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. On this occasion, we should like to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General for his efforts to enhance the role of the United Nations, and our concern that his international standing, and his mandate under the Charter be respected. We also believe that the common interest of Member States requires the support of his candidature for a second term. We live in a region which, because of the injustice, occupation and aggression it has witnessed for decades, has had more than its share of victims of wars and violence. It was impossible to envisage a solution to end such tragedies and to respond to the aspirations of the peoples of the region as long as the Arab-Israeli conflict continued to prevail in the absence of a just and comprehensive peace. Many people do not know how many international endeavours were made, how many meetings were convened, how many parties contributed, how many letters were sent and assurances given before agreement was reached between the parties on the foundations and rules that made up the terms of reference of the Madrid 8 Peace Conference. It is now five years since the Madrid Conference was convened and, in turn, bilateral negotiations set up. Those negotiations survived various periods of tension, interruption, set-back — and progress. They generated thousands of pages of records. Both Syria and Israel agreed on Israel’s withdrawal from the Golan back to the boundary of 4 June 1967. Negotiations then proceeded to the other elements of peace — all under the supervision of the United States of America, and with its participation. Now, after all those international efforts, which were unprecedented in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict, a new Government has taken office in Israel. It has set itself the opposite course to that of its predecessor, and has declared “no” three times: no to withdrawal from the Golan; no to withdrawal from occupied Palestinian lands; and no to a Palestinian State. To anyone who has followed the declarations and practices of the Israeli Government since it assumed power, it is clear that it has not wasted a single opportunity to underline its insistence on changing the foundations and rules of the peace process, to attempt to demolish all the achievements of the past five years and to call for a return to negotiations from square one, without preconditions — in other words, without the Madrid terms of reference, in accordance with the “peace for peace” formula, with the objective of imposing its fait accompli on the Arabs. President Hafez Al-Assad has said: “If this is what the Israeli Prime Minister has in mind, why should Syria want peace? If peace does not return the land to its rightful owners, why should we call for it? Can any thinking person in this world expect Syria to establish peace with the Israeli Government while Syrian land remains in Israeli hands? That is why I say that if Netanyahu stays that course, I do not believe there is any window for a just and comprehensive peace in the region.” One of the dilemmas facing the Middle East peace process is that certain Israeli leaders are encouraging, rather than discouraging, extremism in Israeli society. They are the ones who add fuel to the fire whenever a better climate for the achievement of peace begins to develop. There are many examples of such an attitude, which we do not have time to provide today. It is sufficient to recall that in the aftermath of the Hebron massacre voices were raised everywhere, even in Israel itself, calling for the Jewish settlers, who number less than 400, to move from the heart of Hebron, which is home to more than 120,000 Palestinians. However, the Israeli Government refused to withdraw from Hebron, portraying such a move as the ultimate painful concession. The bloody confrontations that broke out following the opening of the tunnel that Israel dug under the wall of the Al-Aqsa Mosque, as well as previous deliberate Israeli provocations and the unjustified escalation of tensions against Syria and Lebanon over the past few weeks, all confirm that the Israeli Government did not take office in order to resume peace negotiations on the basis of international legitimacy, the Madrid terms of reference and the “land-for-peace” formula, but rather in order to launch new negotiations with no terms of reference, entrenching a fait accompli. During his European tour, Prime Minister Netanyahu announced that his decision to open the tunnel was designed merely to ease the movement of tourists and spare them a walk of a few dozen extra metres. Imagine how guilty those tourists would feel if they believed that, in order to secure their comfort, the Israeli authorities killed about 80 Palestinians, caused the deaths of 15 Israelis, and wounded more than a thousand people. They would not, of course, believe it; we do not believe it — and neither does the head of the Israeli Government, who revealed his true expansionist intentions when he later claimed that the tunnel had been there for two thousand years, and arrogantly declared that it would remain open for ever. Perhaps the huge number of innocent victims who fell in Jerusalem and in the towns of the West Bank and Gaza have hastened the unmasking of such deceit. In this way the Israeli Government appears to public opinion as it truly is: neither desirous of a just peace nor keen to pursue it. This was reflected in the statements made by many Foreign Ministers in the Security Council, where Israel appeared totally isolated, besieged on all sides by statements deploring and denouncing its action, with the voices that usually volunteer to defend it dying away. The Israeli Government’s fuelling of extremism did not stop there. General Sharon, the Israeli Minister for Infrastructure, issued a decision last week allocating three new sites on the occupied Syrian Golan for building 600 housing units. Perhaps a large segment of international public opinion and some politicians are not aware that without the financial aid and huge governmental subsidies given to Jewish settlers, they would not settle in the Golan, especially as they are well aware that the Golan is 9 Syrian territory, which they will have to leave sooner or later. Given my comments, it might be concluded that the Israeli Government has no strategy for peace but has, it seems, chosen the path of confrontation. The path of confrontation, however, is very costly for several reasons. First, Israel can start a war whenever it chooses, but cannot end it when it chooses. Israel might wreak considerable destruction here and there, but it can never destroy the will of a nation that has deep roots of civilization which spread all over the world. Many Israelis may be unaware that all the wars they have fought between October 1973 and April 1996 have gained them nothing except human and political losses and further international condemnation. Secondly, the path of confrontation is very costly because the international community rejects war and aggression and calls for the achievement of a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. Israel knows that the Arabs have opted for peace as their strategic option, including at the summit level. In taking this stand they have been supported by the summit of the States of the Non- Aligned Movement, the summit of the European Union and the summit of the Group of Seven industrial countries, all of which have stressed the need to adhere to the foundations of the peace process, relevant Security Council resolutions and the “land-for-peace” formula, as well as respect by the parties for the agreements and commitments reached so far. Given these facts, it would be unacceptable if peace were not also a strategic option for Israel — indeed, it would be a real catastrophe. The achievement of a just and comprehensive peace, to which the peoples of the region and the world aspire, requires Israel’s withdrawal from all occupied Arab land, pursuant to Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). Syria reaffirms its attachment to the unity of both the territory and the people of Iraq. Syria rejects any attempt to violate the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq’s territory or to interfere in its internal affairs, including the attempt to establish a so-called security zone in northern Iraq. Syria also calls for an end to the suffering of the brotherly Iraqi people, and for a continuation of the implementation of Security Council resolutions, including a solution to the issue of Kuwaiti detainees. With regard to the Lockerbie crisis, Syria expresses its concern for the human and material harm that has been done to the brotherly people of Libya as a result of the continuing coercive measures imposed on them by the Security Council. Syria reaffirms the statement made in the final declaration on the issue of the recent Arab summit, and calls for a response to the initiative submitted by the Arab League for solving this crisis. Syria hopes that the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran can find a peaceful solution to the crisis over the three islands in a way that will preserve good-neighbourly relations and contribute to the strengthening of security and stability in the region. Syria expresses its support for the principles agreed upon by the Governments of Yemen and Eritrea for a solution to their conflict through international arbitration. Our position flows from our desire for good-neighbourly relations between them and our belief in the importance of re-establishing security and stability in the Red Sea region. Syria also expresses its concern at the continuing deterioration of the situation in Somalia and reiterates the call of the Arab summit to the leaders of the Somali factions to achieve national reconciliation and to work towards the establishment of a national authority representing our brothers, the Somali people, as a whole. With regard to Korea, Syria expresses its support for measures that would guarantee peace and stability in the Korean peninsula and for the aspirations of the Korean people to reunification. The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations provided an important opportunity for us to forge a common vision of the future of international relations. On that occasion, we said that the crisis facing the United Nations does not arise from the purposes and principles of the Charter, but rather from the United Nations decision-making mechanism and the selective way in which decisions are implemented. We also observed that the Organization’s serious financial crisis is, in fact, merely the reflection of a political crisis that essentially revolves around the identity of the United Nations and its role in the post-cold-war era. In the light of those comments, the obvious question is: Will it be possible to introduce meaningful reforms into the structure of the United Nations that are acceptable and satisfactory to Member States? That is the true challenge, requiring that we all strive to strengthen dialogue and international cooperation. This will ensure 10 that reforms take place which fulfil, in substance and in form, the aspirations of Member States. Today, as we stand on the threshold of the next century, we are all faced with serious challenges that require us to create an environment that will allow future generations to live in peace, security and cooperation within a system of international relations free from violence and confrontation. That is the hope of our peoples. This is what we must endeavour to achieve as we look forward to a better future, one both more just and more humane that will benefit all mankind.  ﻿A year ago this month, the General Assembly adopted by acclamation the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations. Thus, the special commemorative session of the Assembly, attended by 128 Heads of State and Government, solemnly reaffirmed our commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter. As Ambassador Butler of Australia, the Chairman of the Preparatory Committee, stated, that Declaration must serve as a set of guidelines for cooperation amongst all nations in the years ahead. The fiftieth session, so ably presided over by Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, took the initial step towards translating these new guidelines into practical action aimed at the twenty-first century. In congratulating Mr. Razali Ismail upon his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, I wish him every success in his highly responsible mission to carry further the new tasks and endeavours of the Organization in the course of this session. Last year’s Declaration spelt out four main areas for action in fulfilment of the mission of the United Nations in the coming decades: peace, development, equality and justice. The world of the twenty-first century will confront two great opposing forces: globalization and fragmentation. Bulgaria, as an active member of the international community, has felt both the new opportunities and the new risks. In developing its policies and responses, Bulgaria has proceeded on the basis of its European identity, particularly its association with and prospective membership of the European Union. I would therefore like to state that we share in and attach importance to the European Union memorandum to this session and to the statement delivered by Mr. Dick Spring on behalf of the Union. With the transition from the post-war bipolar system to a world of multi-centrism, the regional format will acquire ever-growing importance. This has been our experience in the Balkans, at least, a region which has sustained the full blast of the forces of both globalization and disastrous fragmentation. In line with its consistently maintained positions, Bulgaria welcomed from the outset the Dayton and Paris agreements. We provided observers as well as police personnel to the international missions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The recent elections in that country, notwithstanding their deficiencies and problems, represent a vitally important step forward. They opened the way for yesterday’s welcome and important Security Council resolution to lift the sanctions imposed on Yugoslavia. At the same time, even during the active phase of the conflict, we have worked for the promotion of the positive trends of good-neighbourliness throughout the region. At last year’s fiftieth session, the Prime Minister of Bulgaria highlighted this priority feature of Bulgaria’s foreign policy, favouring comprehensive regional cooperation. In particular he stated our intention to convene a meeting of Central and South-East European States in order to examine a broad range of issues concerning long-term stability, security and cooperation throughout the region. Today, it is my pleasure to inform the Assembly that such a meeting took place in Sofia on 6 and 7 July 1996 at foreign ministerial level. At that meeting, seven countries — Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Greece, Romania, Turkey and Yugoslavia — adopted a comprehensive document, the Sofia Declaration on Good- Neighbourly Relations, Stability, Security and Cooperation in the Balkans. The text of the Declaration was duly circulated as an official document of the General Assembly and the Security Council. The Declaration was fully supported by all participants in the broader format of the Sofia ministerial meeting, including representatives from Croatia, Slovenia, Italy, Hungary, and the five Contact Group countries — Germany, France, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States of America; Ireland, which holds the presidency of the European Union; representatives of countries chairing the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Central European Initiative, Black Sea 11 Economic Cooperation; and high-level representatives from the United Nations, the European Commission, the Council of Europe, the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The High Representative, Mr. Carl Bildt, was also present, took part in the meeting and made a valuable contribution to its success. I should like to outline very briefly the main spheres of activity launched at the meeting in Sofia in July. In the first area — enhancing regional peace and stability, and building confidence and good-neighbourliness — the point of departure was for the countries in the region to reaffirm their allegiance to the fundamental principles of inter-State relations as spelt out by the Charter, as well as in Helsinki and Paris. In line with these principles, Bulgaria has been actively promoting confidence-building with all its neighbours and has already concluded agreements to this effect with Turkey, Greece and Romania. We stand ready to enter into such agreements with our other neighbours, as well as on a multilateral regional basis. Another important step in this direction will be the convening in Sofia of a meeting of Ministers of Defence as provided for in the Declaration of the Balkan countries. This meeting should contribute significantly towards strengthening security, enhancing confidence and considering future arms-control measures in the region. Recent regional multilateral cooperation in South-East Europe has focused on infrastructure development and upgrading as important factors for economic growth and regional stability. There is an emerging consensus that it should be oriented towards upgrading and linking local infrastructures with trans-European ones, as well as with those in other adjacent areas — the eastern Mediterranean, northern Africa and across the Black Sea and into Asia. Transport infrastructure development is the subject of local cooperation between Albania, the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria, with direct financial and technical assistance being provided by the United States of America; a quadrilateral agreement has recently been signed with regard to this matter. It is also the subject of trilateral cooperation between Greece, Bulgaria and Romania. An important contribution to the cause of good-neighbourliness and infrastructure development are the Bulgarian-Greek cross-border cooperation and water-sharing agreements, which recently entered into force and will be submitted to the OSCE under the Pact on Stability in Europe. Furthermore, in accordance with the agreement between the Balkan countries, the Bulgarian Government began preliminary consultations towards setting up a transregional information and contacts centre for infrastructure development. We expect further contributions to be made to the positive developments in this field from the forthcoming meeting of Ministers of Transportation of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation and Central European Initiative partner countries in Sofia in November 1996. Together with its neighbours in South-East Europe, Bulgaria is building regional cooperation on the basis of the rule of law and full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including those of persons belonging to different national, ethnic, religious and cultural minorities. The countries from the region once again reaffirmed their commitment to these principles and values. They also adopted specific guidelines in the various areas of cultural contacts and cooperation through exchanges and joint programmes. These should add to existing bilateral or multilateral programmes that promote better mutual understanding and the overcoming of negative stereotypes inherited from the past. Joint action in the field of crime prevention and the elimination of international terrorism envisages closer cooperation between central, regional and border authorities through efficient communications and exchange of information; a commitment to accede to all relevant international conventions that prevent and punish international crime and terrorism; joining and participation in specialized regional forums for discussing the problems of illicit drug-trafficking, organized crime and regional anti-terrorist cooperation; and the elaboration of a regional programme to combat organized crime. This already represents a tangible contribution to the implementation at the regional level of a zero-tolerance approach to terrorism. The Sofia Declaration thus set out both the framework and the terms of reference for comprehensive regional cooperation. To this end, follow-up activities are being elaborated in all areas and we hope that all States from the region will take part at the next ministerial meeting in Greece in 1997. Proposals on cooperation in South-East Europe have also come from outside the region. The Florence conference of the Peace Implementation Council last June identified the three initiatives fostering such cooperation: the Balkan conference initiated by the Bulgarian 1 Government, the stability process under the terms of the Royaumont declaration of 12 December 1995 and the South-East Europe cooperation initiative of the United States Government. There is important potential for interaction between the three initiatives, with the process launched in Sofia serving as a comprehensive basis which could link up with the other two initiatives in specific areas of common interest. This regional endeavour represents an integral building block in the development of an all-European system of security and cooperation. We expect the Lisbon OSCE summit in December 1996 to address in a comprehensive manner this set of issues and provide guidelines for future action at both the European and regional levels. Various bodies and agencies of the United Nations system, such as the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme, the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Branch and other bodies could also be highly effective in encouraging and promoting at the regional level the ideas and initiatives that I have outlined. I would like to state Bulgaria’s position on some United Nations-led and other major endeavours at the global level. We fully share the view that the recent conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is an achievement of truly historic proportions. In pursuit of Bulgaria’s long-standing policies in favour of nuclear arms control and disarmament, I had the honour to sign this Treaty on the very first day it was opened for signature. For Bulgaria, a convention on the ban on the production of fissionable material for military purposes would be the next logical stage in the work of the Conference on Disarmament, in which Bulgaria is an active participant. From the point of view of global as well as regional security, another priority task is the early entry into force and implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention. As for the Biological Weapons Convention, Bulgaria is fully in favour of upgrading its control and verification mechanism and is ready to contribute to this end at the forthcoming Review Conference and thereafter. Bulgaria took an active part in the Review Conference of the States Parties to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects, and its Protocol II. During the negotiations, we made special efforts to take into consideration the new technical requirements on mines as an absolute prerequisite for the purposes of mine- clearance and the normal conduct of United Nations peacekeeping and humanitarian operations. Furthermore, by a decision taken on 2 May 1996, the Bulgarian Government imposed a three-year ban on exports of anti- personnel mines. Bulgaria, which currently hold the chairmanship of the Commission on Sustainable Development, attaches particular importance, together with the other United Nations Member States, to the special session of the General Assembly on the review of the follow-up process to the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro. In October 1995, Sofia hosted the third Ministerial Conference on Environment for Europe. The Conference provided further impetus to the Environmental Action Programme for Central and Eastern Europe. The ministerial declaration adopted is an important document in the field of environmental protection in Europe and a further step towards implementing the global concept of sustainability. In recent years, we have witnessed rapid changes in the world economy, changes that can be described by the general trends of liberalization and globalization, both of which are important factors for development. I am happy to inform this Assembly that, after long years of strenuous negotiations, today, 2 October 1996, Bulgaria is becoming a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO). By joining WTO, Bulgaria shall become fully integrated into the world trading system which is essential for us to be able to achieve stable economic growth. Bearing in mind the new challenges in the social and economic areas in today’s multipolar and interdependent world, my country supports the efforts of the international community to enhance and streamline United Nations activities in this field. Bulgaria is a party to all major international human- rights instruments. We believe that international cooperation in the field of human rights is essential for their implementation. It should be conducted in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law, such as the sovereign equality, political independence and the territorial integrity of States. We are in favour of constructive and open dialogue on even sensitive issues related to human rights in individual States. This approach is not directed against any country. The situations in different parts of the world should be examined in a way that takes into account the specific characteristics of individual countries in a 13 comprehensive context and be aimed above all at encouraging positive developments and tendencies. Transnational crime and international terrorism are increasingly emerging, as stated by many speakers in this forum, as one of the major security challenges facing the international community today. They directly affect development and quality of life and erode the very foundations of democratic society. It has become more than obvious that these challenges cannot be addressed effectively by national institutions alone. Today, there is a pressing need to develop new cooperation in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice. Such cooperation could also include more information sharing, including inputs from intelligence sources. At this session, the General Assembly must carefully examine all valuable ideas and proposals in this field put forward by preceding speakers. My country will readily support the efforts of the international community aimed at the elaboration, on a global level, of efficient measures to combat crime and to eliminate international terrorism. Allow me to digress for a moment from the prepared text of my speech in order to share with the Assembly a most regrettable and tragic piece of news concerning a political assassination which took place just over 24 hours ago in Sofia. The target was a former Prime Minister of Bulgaria, Mr. Andrei Lukanov. I would like to inform the Assembly that Mr. Lukanov was one of the principal and personal driving forces behind the democratic changes that took place in Bulgaria after 1989. He staked his personal efforts and future on the successful introduction into Bulgarian society of the values of democracy, the promotion of human rights and economic reform. He was also well-known within the United Nations family, in particular in Geneva, having been an active promoter of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development since its early years and having promoted Bulgaria’s participation in the world trading system and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. In an ironic twist of fate, today marks, as I said, Bulgaria’s accession to WTO. The Bulgarian Parliament adopted a declaration on this occasion several hours ago. It firmly declares the will of all political forces in Bulgaria — Mr. Lukanov having been an active member of Parliament for the last seven years — not to permit this act in any way to divert Bulgaria from the path towards economic and political reform or to infringe on the peaceful and lawful process of political and public life, including the forthcoming presidential elections at the end of this month. I have instructed my Mission to transmit the text of this declaration, with a short covering note, to you, Mr. President, the Secretary-General and Member States. I invite all of you to share our feelings of support and sympathy for the family of Mr. Lukanov and to send messages of support to the Bulgarian Parliament. I invite the Assembly, at this point in time, without rising, to share a minute of silence in remembrance of Mr. Lukanov. Improvements in the effectiveness and functioning of the principal organs, a better balance in their authority and the streamlining of the subsidiary machinery are important conditions for the reform of the United Nations. The issue of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council is a key component of this process. We share the view that some Member States — developed, for instance Germany and Japan, and developing alike — are able to assume the responsibility of permanent membership. A number of proposals for the reform of the Security Council have already been put on the table and should be examined with due attention. In this respect, I would like to mention the valuable ideas presented by Minister Lamberto Dini of Italy just a few days ago. One of the major developments over the past several years has been the fact that the number of States in the Eastern European Group has almost doubled. We reiterate our conviction that such a rise in membership requires one additional non- permanent seat to be allocated to this Group. Some Balkan countries have already indicated their willingness to apply for non-permanent membership in the Security Council. With its consistent regional policies of good- neighbourliness and cooperation in South-East Europe, as well as in the broader United Nations framework, Bulgaria is equally justified in seeking membership on the Council in the years to come. It would be remiss of me, however, not to mention some serious flaws in the United Nations peacemaking machinery. The question of finding an adequate solution to the complicated problems arising for third countries as a result of United Nations Security Council-imposed sanctions is one of them. At its fiftieth session the General Assembly once again expressed concern at the persisting special economic problems confronting States affected by sanctions implementation. It also renewed its invitation to the international financial institutions to continue to pay special attention to these problems and their adverse social impact, and to consider ways and 14 means for mobilizing and providing resources on appropriate terms for mitigating the negative impact of the sanctions on those States. The Assembly also renewed its request to the competent organs, programmes and specialized agencies of the United Nations to take into consideration the special needs of the affected States and to consider providing assistance to them from their special programme resources. Regrettably, few are the practical steps in implementing these recommendations. These problems, since they are long-lasting, will continue to exert their negative impact long after the lifting of sanctions. It would be highly counterproductive if the peacemaking essence of sanctions were to be distorted by major economic dislocation in affected third States. Being among the countries suffering most from the implementation of sanctions, at this session Bulgaria will again submit a draft resolution on the subject and I invite all Member States to give it their unanimous and firm support. The proceedings of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly provide new, important opportunities to continue on the path of reform and increased efficiency. They open up new opportunities to render support to those trends in the modern world, our global village and each of its neighbourhoods, making for societies with greater security and promise in which our children can look forward to a more fulfilling life. Bulgaria is firmly committed to contributing actively and in a constructive spirit to the accomplishment of this new mission of the world Organization.  ﻿Your noteworthy election, Sir, to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session is an eloquent and solemn tribute from the Members of our Organization to your great country, Malaysia. Your intellectual and moral qualities, your faith in the United Nations and your vast experience in international relations guarantee, in our view, success in the work of this session. For all these reasons, Senegal, which enjoys a strong relationship of friendship and cooperation with your country, is happy to convey to you, through me, warm congratulations. We assure you of our full support in the achievement of the lofty mission entrusted to you. To your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, I wish to express our profound gratitude for the effectiveness, competence and the commitment with which he discharged his mandate during a historic and particularly productive session. I would also like to pay tribute to the Secretary- General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, at this fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali is an ardent champion of peace and cooperation among peoples, and his commendable work for the United Nations should be emphasized today, to encourage perseverance along this path. Moreover, the African Heads of State recently adopted at Yaoundé a statement recommending his re-election to a second term of office as United Nations Secretary-General. The international climate today strikes us as one of those special situations that should awaken our consciences, inviting us to enhance our efforts and clarity of vision to ensure humanity a future of peace, solidarity and cooperation. Indeed, we are meeting at a time conducive to major changes in the life of our Organization. The most striking illustration of our common desire for reform was expressed here last year, during the solemn commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. It was in that spirit that during the commemorative meeting of the General Assembly some of the most authoritative voices in the world — those of 128 Heads of State and Government — forcefully reaffirmed their profound faith in the United Nations, its principles and objectives. Furthermore, these leaders unanimously called for in-depth reflection so that we might enter the twenty-first century with a restructured, reinvigorated Organization, equipped with the necessary human, material and financial resources to more effectively accomplish the lofty mission of an Organization that harmonizes the complementary efforts of Member States in order to achieve new goals in a context of freedom and active solidarity. Guaranteeing peace and collective security; developing friendly relations among nations based on shared values; promoting respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms; and developing varied forms of cooperation in the economic, social, cultural and humanitarian fields — these were the dreams of those who, 50 years ago, created the United Nations. They are still today the foundation, the moral basis and the justification for the objectives we must continue to pursue in these final years of the twentieth century, a century that, despite two world wars, was one of prodigious discoveries — a century that saw man walk on the moon, explore the environs of Mars and make significant progress in combating disease. However, we must agree that today’s world is not the world of 50 years ago. This one presents new and widespread dangers but also offers different possibilities. We must therefore close ranks, minimize our differences and combine our efforts, as peoples, nations, States and communities. Today, all nations face an enormous paradox: on the one hand, countries have never been closer to one another due to the increasing globalization of technology; on the 8 other hand, the fragmentation of nationalities has triggered the resurgence of new forms of confrontation and conflict, as well as misunderstandings and serious delays in the evolution of continents. During the cold-war period, it was generally considered that the main threats to peace would come from wars between States, and the greatest fear was that a nuclear conflict would break out and devastate the planet. The end of the cold war gave rise to a sense of trust in the advent of a world free from the spectre of a nuclear cataclysm, which we welcomed with optimism. We shared the belief that the many regional conflicts could be resolved quickly once they were no longer fuelled by unbridled military assistance and by positions of continual escalation in both hemispheres. Today, unfortunately, we are forced to recognize that the state of the world for the most part belies these optimistic visions; many old conflicts continue to resist the international community’s attempts to settle them. Pernicious and persistent intra-State conflicts have broken out. The conflicts in Africa and in the former Yugoslavia illustrate this situation. Indeed, from Angola to Somalia, from Burundi and Rwanda to Liberia, Africa is beset by conflicts whose nature, as we are forced to recognize, prevents the proper and effective implementation of the solutions proposed. It is true that significant progress has been made in some of these conflicts, particularly in Angola and to a lesser extent in Rwanda. We need to continue our efforts in this direction. In other conflicts, the road to peace remains uncertain. In Liberia, the situation is extremely murky due to the difficulty of managing conflicts between rival factions, despite the initiatives of the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the African countries in the area. However, we must not become discouraged. At the recent Ministerial meeting in Abuja, Nigeria, the member countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) took some courageous decisions. These, we hope, will create new conditions conducive to the normalization of the situation in that country through the organization of free and democratic elections, with the full support of the entire international community. Turning to Burundi, it is clear that the measures prescribed by the United Nations and by the OAU have not managed to end the bloodshed, nor did they prevent the military coup de force of 25 July last. This is regrettable and we must take action. However, we must not lose faith. Given this new situation, Senegal, like the African countries of the Great Lakes region, calls for the restoration of constitutional order and reaffirms its conviction that any solution to the crisis in Burundi requires the initiation — despite any feelings of resentment — of a free and transparent dialogue in good faith between the various parties to the conflict. In Europe, the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia represented, before it was torn apart, a successful example of a pluralistic and harmonious ethnic and religious coexistence, which was the pride of the world. It was in the name of these values that, from the beginning of the conflict, Senegal rejected any notion of partitioning Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is why it welcomed with great hope the signing of the Dayton Agreement. It is in this spirit that the momentum for peace of this Agreement must be consolidated. In this regard, the smooth conduct of the elections of 14 September was an important step. The prosecution, arrest and sentencing of war criminals by the international criminal Tribunal remains a major test for the international community. More than that, is it a matter of proving that our community is able to implement Security Council decisions. Against this background, Senegal, my country, will continue, as it has in the past, to do what it can within the framework of the Contact Group of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) to bring about the advent of a Bosnia and Herzegovina at peace with itself, so that the seeds of peace and stability can finally bear fruit in this war-torn land and throughout the rest of the former Yugoslavia. Exactly one year ago we welcomed with relief the signing of the Washington and Taba agreements — important milestones for the establishment of peace and reconciliation between the peoples of the Middle East. The door thus opened must never close again. Today, regrettably, doubts and the fear of returning to a past marked by war and hatred are beginning to resurface. Let us put an end to these threats while there is still time. 9 While my country has always believed, and continues to believe, that some realities are inescapable — the existence of Israel is one of them — it is also of the opinion that the security of that State can, in the long term, be assured only in the framework of respect for, and implementation of, the current peace process, which should lead to the definitive creation of a sovereign and independent Palestinian state, a fully-fledged member of the international community. It is therefore up to the new Israeli Government, elected in May 1996, to make decisive efforts so that the flame of peace, ignited just recently with such courage and clear-sightedness, continues to inspire the leaders and peoples of Israel and Palestine towards a Middle East that builds its future on a spirit of solidarity, cooperation and friendship. Given the changes in the world since the fall of the Berlin Wall and given the new types of conflicts, which require a new approach to the management of our collective security system, our Organization, the United Nations, must be understood, supported and strengthened. Increasingly, the United Nations has been called on to create a new generation of peacekeeping operations. The Blue Helmets have been joined by civil experts who provide political, economic, social and humanitarian assistance, thus contributing to the stabilization of situations and conflicts as well as to the search for a political settlement to conflicts through national reconciliation whenever necessary. Accordingly, my country, Senegal, will continue to take part with resolve in this noble mission in the service of peace, with the conviction that has always inspired our international policy. This same desire prompted its participation, with 36 other countries, in the standby forces system initiated recently by the Secretary-General, as well as its commitment to the establishment of an early warning and rapid reaction system. Guided by these same principles, Senegal continues to make a modest contribution to the attainment of the goal of comprehensive and effective disarmament. Senegal’s recent admission to the Conference on Disarmament, when that body was expanded, attests to its will to work together with all peace-loving nations to build a better future in a world free from weapons of mass destruction. In this respect, I wish to welcome warmly the agreement concluded here on the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, particularly since it meets the concerns of all Member States of our Organization, specifically the African States. In a spirit of remarkable unanimity, African States signed in Cairo last March the Pelindaba agreement on the denuclearization of the continent. In the same spirit, the international community recently took an important step to halt the nuclear arms race with the adoption by the General Assembly on 10 September 1996 of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which my country has just signed on 26 September 1996, here in New York. However, it is a fact that at a time when the international community faces new challenges stemming from the end of the cold war, our Organization will increasingly be asked to play a more central role in world affairs. Naturally this means that meaningful improvements must be made in the work of the Organization; most importantly, the principle of universality should be implemented methodically and effectively. Accordingly, the restructuring and democratization of the Security Council must remain a priority goal. This central body of the United Nations must reflect in its decision-making process the concerns of the entire membership of our Organization. Its reform must lead to increased transparency and a better representation by all regions of the world. Guided by the ideal of the universality of the United Nations, Senegal supports the request of the Republic of China to be admitted to membership in our Organization, and, generally speaking, to membership in the specialized agencies of the United Nations system. It is inarguable, in our opinion, that that State, in view of its socio-economic performance, its development level, its commitment to democratic values and its behaviour in international affairs meets all the criteria and conditions set forth by the Charter of the United Nations for admission to membership. This admission to membership, should it occur, would make an important contribution to stabilizing international relations in that part of Asia and would allow for an unprecedented economic, technical and cultural cooperation among the countries of South- East Asia and Africa. Its admission would in no way jeopardize the efforts made by the international community for peace and development in the world. The values of peace, freedom and economic and social justice, which 50 years ago inspired the creation of our Organization, must now more than ever remain the 10 basis of our common action towards a life of dignity for all. The post-cold-war experience has taught us once again that the many facets of underdevelopment remain a serious threat to international peace and security. Now that globalization and interdependence are phenomena recognized by all, we must understand that the destiny of humankind is one and indivisible. This obvious truth must persuade us to seek, in a spirit of solidarity, joint solutions to the persistent problems of underdevelopment. The series of major world conferences set to conclude next November with the World Food Summit — a positive initiative welcomed by my country — is an encouraging sign of the international community’s resolve to meet these challenges in the best interests of the peoples of the world, on the basis of a comprehensive, integrated approach to human development. We need now to maintain and strengthen that spirit by mobilizing additional financial resources, without which the commitments undertaken will remain a dead letter, which would betray the legitimate hopes to which they gave rise. We must find an early and comprehensive solution to the severe debt crisis. The components of the problem are fairly clear today. The sustained structural-adjustment efforts made by our country will remain futile and ineffective if external factors such as the debt burden and the deterioration of the terms of trade continue seriously to hinder our development prospects. The Agenda for Development gives us a new opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to world peace and stability by defining a comprehensive framework for action based on economic justice, social well-being, the protection of human rights and the preservation of the environment. The development of Africa, and I cannot overemphasize this point, is the primary responsibility of the Africans themselves. That is why in many African countries today Governments continue with determination to carry out bold and difficult reforms, reflected, inter alia, in the improved and more rational use of public funds, in the opening of our economies to international trade and in the creation of conditions conducive to private enterprise and to the transparent management of public affairs with, most importantly, all sectors of society participating in the work of national development, in the interests of all. In this regard, we must pay tribute to the Bretton Woods institutions, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund for the assistance and support they have extended to our countries. For these ongoing efforts to be successful, they must be supported by increased official development assistance, substantial debt relief and by the lifting of barriers and other protectionist measures. These three areas require dynamic action on the part of the international community. Senegal is firmly convinced that we can combat African pessimism if we are resolved jointly to promote a mutually beneficial partnership for the recovery of an Africa with enormous potential, which, if tapped, would offer our partners real opportunities. It was this conviction, let us recall, that prompted the Head of State of Senegal, His Excellency Mr. Abdou Diouf, to take the initiative during his first term of office as Acting Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, to request the convening for the first time of a special session of the General Assembly to discuss the economic situation in Africa. That is the light in which my country sees the two initiatives devoted to Africa: the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the Special Initiative for Africa, launched by the Secretary-General in March 1996. Furthermore, we noted that the mid-term review of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa at this session gave a very frank assessment of what must be done to make this project a genuine framework for multilateral cooperation and a source of inspiration for a fruitful partnership for development. In conclusion, I should like to touch on the United Nations financial crisis, which has become a source of major concern for all our States. Since the causes of the situation have been discussed at length in this very Hall, I do not believe it is necessary to recall them. However, one thing is very clear. At a time when our Organization is committed on several fronts, both to restoring peace and to strengthening its role as the primary framework and instrument for the advent of the new world order, its financial stability is essential to enable us jointly to meet the major challenges ahead. Therefore, my country, Senegal, would like once again to appeal to all Member States regularly to meet their financial obligations. In this regard, it is essential that the credibility of the United Nations not be impugned at a time when, individually and collectively, we have such high hopes for the future of humankind. Once again, the effectiveness of the United Nations will depend upon our common resolve to harmonize our own interests to achieve our shared goals in strict 11 accordance with the fundamental principles of the San Francisco Charter. As our President, His Excellency Mr. Abdou Diouf, has said repeatedly, Senegal will continue, as it has in the past, to work tirelessly for the attainment of the ideals of peace, justice and solidarity, and to reaffirm and seek compliance with all the principles on which a true international community, sharing a common destiny, is based. ﻿May I, at the outset, extend the congratulations of my delegation to you, Sir, upon your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- first session. In your endeavours, based on your rich diplomatic experience, you may count on the assistance and support of the Hungarian delegation. Let me also pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his extremely able leadership throughout our historic fiftieth session. The diversity of challenges facing the community of nations, the difficulties associated with finding proper responses and the importance of building up supportive national and international constituencies are hardly likely to send multilateralism into oblivion. Yet, in this time of change, and despite the forceful tendencies of globalization, interdependence and integration, no single applicable approach is at hand for political leaders. Given its unique role and capacities, the United Nations can be the principal vehicle by which the international community selects and addresses problems requiring a universal response. This Organization, however, cannot and should not micro-manage the solution to all the urgent problems of our contemporary world. Times have changed and so must the United Nations. In several instances, the international community may act much more efficiently through regional organizations or specialized agencies. What is essential, however, is that the nations forming this Organization stand up with one strong voice when the purposes and principles of the Charter are put to the test. Violations of international law, human rights and fundamental freedoms should be matched with legitimate and adequate responses by the international community, acting through the United Nations. The issue of multilateral disarmament and non- proliferation remains a legitimate concern for the United Nations. Last year, we were pleased by the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This important step not only constituted a major building block in the complex web of our non-proliferation and disarmament efforts, but served as a catalyst to forge consensus around the future direction and dynamics of this process. As a result of sustained and responsible work in the Conference on Disarmament, it became possible to finalize the text of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). Hungary stood fully behind this compromise text, which captures the diversity of views and approaches while still constituting a coherent and forward-looking document. Opening the Treaty for signature was, indeed, a landmark. Hungary was among the first countries to sponsor resolution 50/245. I signed the Treaty on the day after it was opened for signature. This Treaty is not the end of the process. There is a need for further systematic and progressive efforts towards nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, and the CTBT must be given its due place in that process. In this context, we join those who call for its smooth entry into force, thereby allowing the disarmament process to proceed. Hungary also consistently seeks to contribute to the strengthening of stability and security through cooperative efforts at both regional and bilateral levels. Building upon our intensified relations with the European Union, we look forward to the early beginning of negotiations on our 7 accession to the European Union. We hold the firm view that the enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) will expand stability and security in Europe and will strengthen trans-Atlantic partnership and solidarity. Hungary, in its bilateral relations with neighbouring countries, is striving to contribute to the establishment of conditions enabling them all to be full partners in the institutions of Euro-Atlantic integration. We remain convinced that, with an enlarged NATO and an expanded European Union, the United Nations will have even more efficient and helpful regional partners. The crisis in the Balkans has proved to be a painful and dramatic litmus test of the resolve of the international community. The United Nations has also had to draw its own conclusions from the tragedy. The mission of the United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium is currently making progress on the road to the peaceful reintegration of the region into Croatia, while securing respect for the human rights of all its inhabitants and the rights of national minorities in the region. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the role and determination of the Implementation Force (IFOR) is indispensable for guaranteeing the implementation of the Dayton Agreement. The cooperation, through IFOR, between NATO, the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe in responding to the different facets of this major challenge is an innovative paradigm for future conflict resolution and crisis-management efforts. We strongly believe that a solid international presence is required to allow democracy and stability to take firm root in the region. Hungary continues to provide the necessary logistical and transit facilities to IFOR forces and United Nations peace-keepers and is contributing to the strength of both IFOR and the United Nations International Police Task Force. The return and reintegration of refugees and displaced persons — including those who found shelter in Hungary — pose a continuing challenge to the international community. The establishment of democracy and the rule of law should be accompanied by reconstruction and rehabilitation, thereby facilitating the conditions of safe and orderly return. Citizens should be assisted by the international community in their efforts to create and activate democratic institutions in which good governance and accountability will force war criminals out of the political mainstream. We see the work of the Tribunal in The Hague as an essential component of the Dayton peace process and the cooperation extended to it as an important indicator of the willingness of the parties to follow through on both their Dayton commitments and their obligations under the Charter. Experience of the recently held elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina suggests that keeping to the schedule agreed at Dayton was a sound decision. We remain concerned, however, at the ethnically divided voting results. This only highlights the urgency of proceeding without undue delay to the building-up of a unique institutional infrastructure for the country and of facilitating the holding of municipal elections in a more stable political environment. We are now in a period of reflection with regard to United Nations conflict-prevention and crisis-management capabilities. In our view, the United Nations, as it continues to live up to its responsibilities under the Charter, ought to craft its response strategies more carefully. The preventive capacity of the United Nations should be further strengthened. A sound early warning system, combining political, military, humanitarian, human rights and economic areas, would broaden the base of options and enhance the chances for success in the early detection of conflict situations. An early international monitoring presence in itself has a major deterrent effect. In-depth information on a given situation would catalyse diplomatic efforts and help trigger a broad consensus on the course of action. Specialized agencies and regional organizations, such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, are of primary importance in defusing sources of tension through creating appropriate and efficient response mechanisms. The United Nations, while fully discharging its responsibilities under the Charter for the maintenance of international peace and security, can authorize and thus give legitimacy to these endeavours as well as to actions to be taken by ad hoc coalitions of the able and willing. The building-up of regional peacekeeping and peace- building capacities, as well as the increase of the operational character of some key activities of specialized agencies, are among the avenues that have to be more fully explored. The reform agenda of the United Nations has been put in motion against the background of these new challenges and opportunities. Despite considerable progress in identifying the main areas of change within the different negotiating structures, we are seriously 8 concerned that the overall reform process has lost most of its dynamics. While we should not allow that individual consensual elements of the reform process be held hostage to progress in unrelated issues, there seems to be an evident need to reach a political agreement, at least on the basic philosophy of the major premises of the reform agenda. Hungary is aware of the difficulties that make real progress so hard to achieve. It stands ready to help reinvigorate the momentum for change and to make genuine United Nations reform an early reality. Promotion of the international protection of human rights is a fundamental component of my Government’s foreign policy and one of the essential tasks conferred upon the United Nations by its founders. Despite the remarkable results achieved in the standard establishment and building- up of implementation machinery, there is still much to do in maintaining our determination to act in defence of human rights, wherever abuses may occur. Chronic underfunding, lack of efficient coordination and the sometimes evasive or uncooperative attitude of several Governments only underline this urgency, which was finally recognized when human rights were made one of the programme priorities of the United Nations. In our view, the United Nations, despite the important advances made, such as the establishment of the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights, is still not sufficiently equipped to deal with the latest and gravest of human-rights challenges: those emanating from ethnic conflict, civil strife, government breakdown and the collapse of the rule of law. The importance of safeguarding and monitoring the observance of the rights of national or ethnic minorities is still too often disregarded and put in the context of political expediency. Lack of full respect for the rights of minorities, together with the absence of necessary political, legal, institutional and administrative guarantees, are among the root causes of many of the conflicts on our agenda. Today, as we witness the growing importance of human-rights operational activities, the timeliness of the concept of preventive peace-building comes to mind. This implies not only an enhanced human-rights preventive and monitoring capacity of the United Nations, but also the right combination and use of the assets at our disposal, from early warning to preventive protection. The practice of financing some United Nations human-rights field operations from the peace-keeping budget and a greater coordinating role for the High Commissioner for Human Rights may be two of the avenues which deserve our full attention. I wish to underline the fact that the way in which the United Nations tackles the crucial global problems mankind is facing will greatly determine the quality of the imminent next century. Let me refer, in this context, to the importance of some of the problems on the agenda of this session. Sustained efforts to combat international terrorism, transnational crime or illicit drug trafficking are required from all of us in order to preserve the international legal order, the present achievements and further potential of democracy and development. The United Nations has an important role in coordinating efforts to ensure that those involved in terrorist activities find no safe haven and expect a vigorous response from the international community. Transboundary criminal activity and drug-related money-laundering require the strict application of the law by strong, independent judiciaries. Our task is to make use of the advantages of multilateral cooperation in this field. The Republic of Hungary stands ready to work in partnership with Member States to promote efficient multilateral action and to translate into deeds the noble ideals set forth in the Charter of the United Nations.  ﻿I should like to extend to the President and to all the delegations of Member States the cordial greetings of the people and Government of El Salvador. I should also like to congratulate the President on his election to preside over this session and to express thanks to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral for the dedication with which he carried out his mandate. At this session, we must adopt very important decisions designed to strengthen the Organization. We are convinced that the President’s pragmatism and experience will help our debate to take a proper course, overcome obstacles and give impetus to the reforms called for by Member States. In October 1995 we celebrated the golden anniversary of the United Nations, an occasion that afforded us an opportunity to assess the work of the Organization, to recognize the importance of this institution in deepening understanding among nations and to ensure that its purposes and principles remain fully in effect. At that time, world leaders agreed to support the implementation of the reform needed to ensure that the international community would indeed have an effective Organization able to meet the requirements presented by a constantly changing world. In the light of that commitment, we believe that at this session debate should avoid unnecessary confrontation and be focused on the formulation of practical recommendations to ensure that the joint efforts of Member States will be in accordance with the Declaration adopted at the fiftieth anniversary. In so doing, important decisions can be taken that will give the Organization the capabilities and resources to meet the challenges of the new millennium effectively. The dynamics of the international system in recent years lead us to an even greater appreciation of the various initiatives that have been discussed with regard to the common problems that affect us all. In solving them, we must act together and share the successful experiences of each individual State in order to improve the standard of living of all our peoples. We commend the successful convening of summits, at which programmes of action on global problems relating to women, children, human rights, the environment, social development, population and human settlements have been adopted. These conferences are a clear demonstration of the political will and the moral commitment of the international community to redefine the paradigms for sustainable development by means of 19 rekindled creativity focused on the individual as well as the family. The complexity and interdependency of our problems oblige each and every Member State to redouble their efforts to participate more actively in finding solutions. Such solutions must emerge from a new vision of the current international situation, characterized by increasingly globalized economies and requiring greater efficiency and competitiveness in the productive sectors in order successfully to confront higher levels of competition. Despite the positive elements of this picture, we must not confound joint efforts with the principal responsibility that each and every government bears in solving the problems affecting its own society. In the global political situation, we note with satisfaction that progress has been made in participatory democracy throughout the world. This is one of the most important phenomena at the end of this century, as it enables individuals to participate directly and creatively in solving their own problems. We are convinced that United Nations efforts to resolve and contain conflicts by means of peacekeeping operations are beneficial to the achievement of world harmony. In addition to having benefited from this process, El Salvador has been an active party to it. Our country’s experience in effectively settling its recent armed conflict can help other countries dealing with similar situations. This makes it possible for us to share our knowledge and experience with the international community, to contribute to solving such conflicts by means of dialogue and common work, leading to the consolidation of peace, democracy and respect for human rights. We have said that there has been a sea change in the international system, but conflicts and problems remain. At this time, we wish to encourage their resolution in an atmosphere of cooperation, dialogue and negotiation by means of frank and objective discussion. In recent years, 25 new States have exercised their sovereign right to self-determination and become Members of the United Nations, thereby reaffirming the Organization’s principle of universality. Unfortunately this principle has not been fully respected and will not be fully respected until all States, including the Republic of China in Taiwan, are represented in the United Nations. The creation of jobs, the rule of law, the security of citizens, access to proper housing, health, education, medical care and nutrition for children, and a clean and life-sustaining environment are all requirements that deserve priority. If at the United Nations we can formulate policies and carry out innovative, effective activities in this connection, people throughout the world, particularly the most dispossessed, can benefit from this important step forward in solving their problems. This is the only way the Organization can truly make a creative and effective contribution to ensuring that democracy is perceived as a positive process for humankind. The financial problems of our Organization are an obstacle to the proper functioning of its programmes and activities, especially those in less developed countries. The needs of development require that the United Nations function more transparently, effectively and, above all, efficiently. For this, our beliefs and our actions must be consistent. The new vision that is emerging in the international system can be explained by the domestic transformations taking place in many countries throughout the world. Central America is a part of this process. Allow me to describe the current experiences of our region. A few years before the start of the new millennium, the Central American countries have left behind our sad history of confrontation and have embarked upon the path to peace, freedom, democracy and development, as shaped by the Central American Presidents in our Alliance for the Sustainable Development of Central America. This Alliance comprises policies, programmes and activities that provide a new system for integral development and are creating progressive change in living standards by ensuring economic growth with social equity, and development that is in harmony with nature, thus ensuring that future generations will have a high quality of life. The Central American Presidents also adopted a series of commitments to work together to meet the objectives of the Alliance for Sustainable Development. In political terms, these include strengthening and consolidating the rule of law and democratic security as well as modernizing the public sector; in economic terms, improving economic integration, harmonizing macroeconomic policies and modernizing regional infrastructures; in the social sphere, systematically reducing poverty, emphasizing job-creation and investment in human capital, giving priority to eduction, health and training; in the cultural area, ensuring the preservation of the values and traditions of the cultural 20 heritage of the Central American peoples; and in environmental terms, preserving and protecting the bio- diversity of the region, promoting reforestation and the appropriate utilization of water catchment areas, biological corridors and protected areas. In El Salvador, barely four years after the signature of the peace accords, we are pleased to note that we have come close to full implementation of the commitments entered into at the time and are moving strongly towards establishing democratic institutions and national reconstruction. Our peace process has been held up as an example, and we are pleased to serve as a model and an encouragement to ensure that situations similar to ours can be solved in other areas of the world. After having solved a prolonged domestic conflict by political means, we Salvadorans have many challenges before us which can be summed up in a few words: the achievement of a lasting, stable and modern democracy based on the rule of law that will enable us to achieve social peace and the building of a new El Salvador. For these reasons, we are determined to expedite actions aimed at satisfying the deepest aspirations of our people: worthwhile and well-paid work; a participatory education stressing the creation of a culture of peace based on civic and moral values; a health system that is not only curative but preventive; the promotion of micro-enterprises and small businesses; full respect for and promotion of human rights, including special emphasis on the rights of women and children; the restoration and preservation of our environment; strengthening the rule of law; and the consolidation of a true system of civil liberties. On this basis, the Salvadoran people will be able to put all of their talents and efforts into achieving the sustainable and integral development of society. We believe that human and economic development are two sides of the same coin, and mutually dependent. Greater human development makes possible conditions under which economic development can increase, which in turn produces increased resources to stimulate human development. Accordingly, the Government of President Armando Calderón Sol is carrying out reforms that will allow for the creation of a country replete with opportunities for all Salvadorans, thereby breaking the vicious circle of poverty in which those born poor are condemned to die poor. This objective can be achieved as long as we, as a nation, have a single vision that goes beyond different ideological or political circumstances. The great task facing this generation in El Salvador is to recognize that society is a whole and to ensure that all the force of history is brought to bear in order to find solutions that benefit the entire population. The people and Government of El Salvador wish to reaffirm their recognition of the contribution made by the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, his representatives and the agencies of the United Nations system, to the consolidation of peace, democracy and reconstruction in our country. We would like also to thank the international community for its material, technical and financial support to complement the efforts of the Salvadoran people to achieve peace and sustainable development, which has enabled us to begin a process of modernization, so as to meet successfully the challenges of the twenty-first century. In conclusion, we would like to express our absolute confidence that, at the conclusion of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, the peoples of the world who are represented here will have reached a greater level of understanding, trust and cooperation, enabling them to deal together with the problems affecting the international community.  ﻿It is a very special pleasure for Brunei Darussalam to greet you, Mr. President, as a close friend and neighbour. Please accept our warmest congratulations, both to you 7 and to all Malaysians, on your election. May I also express our appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Freitas do Amaral for his leadership during our fiftieth session. Our fiftieth anniversary has come and gone. We still remember the many fine statements made last year. Now, however, we have to give them practical substance. In this regard, Mr. President, I was very interested in your recent statements on the role of the General Assembly. I was particularly pleased that you emphasized practical economic and social development. It was also most encouraging to hear you say that you intend to do all you can for the cause of United Nations reform. Like you, I feel that the General Assembly must not be paralysed by the analysis of reform. We need concrete proposals from our working groups. Then we can spend our time on the hard work of building consensus. The need is urgent. Tension and conflict within nations are growing. At the same time, the United Nations is increasingly being asked to solve problems in many new areas of international concern — social, economic and sometimes even criminal — that transcend national borders. It is also expected to address the deep-seated causes of future instability, the widening gap between North and South and the allied problems of overpopulation and urbanization, which have been so sharply exposed by this Organization at recent conferences. Above all, it has to face the results of these problems in the form of mounting intolerance, violent aggression and, all too often, extremism and terrorism. In trying to do all this, its resources are overstretched. For this reason, I would like to thank the Secretary-General, his representatives and all those who are serving this Organization in the field, often in extremely difficult conditions. Their work represents a deep commitment to the cause of peace and stability in the world and I admire and greatly appreciate it. However, I also tend to think that maybe we are asking them to take on new tasks with old or outdated tools. If they are not provided with the means to manage our affairs well, then we in the United Nations are at fault. In this respect, the tragedy of Bosnia is a warning to us. Certainly, we in Brunei Darussalam welcome recent developments and will continue to give our strong support to the new Government in Bosnia. At the same time, I feel that all of us in this Assembly should recognize the extent to which the events of the last five years reveal our own shortcomings. We hope that the Security Council will now begin to insist that all agreements be resolutely kept. We would like to see it acting firmly against political pressure from any quarter and ensuring that nothing is allowed to stand in the way of the peoples’ recovery. I say this with particular concern as we are now facing what could become another emblem of failure for us: the current situation in the Middle East. Until quite recently, this was a problem which had defied solution since the earliest days of this Organization. Then, at last, a peace agreement was reached which gave us a realistic glimpse of hope. Even though we realized that it would be a very difficult process, we felt optimistic. However, a new Government in Israel now appears to be challenging the very basis on which our own hopes for peace were founded. The solutions that appeared to be within the grasp of the parties directly concerned are under threat. Rather than becoming more manageable, the scope of the so-called Middle East problem has now extended to include the people of Iraq. It is consequently with great concern that Brunei Darussalam adds its voice to the many who wish to impress on the leaders of Israel the need to continue the peace process, not just by making statements, but in the full spirit of the agreements reached in Madrid and Oslo. What I have briefly described represents the sum of economic, social and political problems, which in our view calls for a new approach on our part. This can only be developed, we feel, when the United Nations is reformed. I say this because we are seeing the emergence of a new type of international community, far more diverse than the one our founders knew. At the same time, it is one which is being drawn even closer together through the advance of technology and communications — the “global village” of popular description. There are many reasons to welcome this. It could mean that we all learn to acknowledge and appreciate our diversity and to take on the best aspects of a real village. However, there is no guarantee. Villages are not always pleasant places to live in. They have their darker side. Modern technology may well encourage neighbourly cooperation, but it is just as capable of enhancing the hostile elements of primitive village life. It could set up a permanent division between the developed and the developing worlds. 8 That is why I feel it is essential for us to find an effective new approach to the tremendous changes taking place today. As members know, this is what we are trying to develop in South-East Asia. The way we have chosen has enabled us to promote programmes aimed at preventive diplomacy and economic cooperation in our region. It has also meant that we have been able to offer some wider assistance to the cause of South-South cooperation. These are specific measures with practical aims and they are producing clear results, but they also have a broader and deeper effect. They enable us not only to manage the diversity of our region, but also, at a very human level, to learn to appreciate each others’ differences and enjoy the challenge of working together. By way of example, I would like to commend our friends and colleagues in Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar for their intention to join the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN). They are making a lasting contribution to peace and stability in our region. We are therefore delighted to be on the verge of seeing the whole of South- East Asia working together in cooperation. What this has led to in terms of strengthening international peace and security is illustrated by our very extensive dialogue process. One practical result of this in our region was the signing of the South-East Asia Nuclear- Weapon-Free Zone Treaty at the last ASEAN summit. This is a Treaty which we would like all nuclear-weapon States to join as a commitment to peace in our region. It was in this spirit that we endorsed the resolution on the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, passed by this Assembly earlier this month, as a first step towards worldwide nuclear disarmament. What we are trying to stress is the need for inclusion, drawing together all parties to a problem, working towards consensus rather than demanding compromise and bringing everyone into the mainstream of decision-making. The kind of results we hope for were shown just this month in the achievements of the Government of the Philippines and the leaders of the Moro National Liberation Front through the good offices of Indonesia. Their efforts brought to an end more than 20 years of violence and hostility, and I would like to congratulate all the parties involved. We see this as reflecting the need that lies behind the strong calls that many Member States have made for reform of this Organization. It acknowledges that aggression must be dealt with firmly, but it also recognizes what has been tragically impressed upon us all over the past few years in Europe, Africa and Asia. It is what guides all our work in our region and, I suggest, must be the starting point for any new approach to the conduct of international affairs today. It is the knowledge that, if we do not accept and willingly embrace diversity, there is a price to be paid and it is unacceptable.   ﻿Like some others present here, I too have had the opportunity to visit Malaysia. Malaysia is a great country, both in size and because of its outstanding successes in many areas. But it is a great country above all because of the quality of the women and men who govern it and who represent it on the international scene. Ambassador Razali Ismail is without doubt one of its most eminent representatives. I am therefore convinced that he will preside over the work of our 51-year-old Organization with great cheer and efficiency. I convey to him and to all the elected members of the Bureau my congratulations and best wishes for success. I would also like to congratulate his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, whose personal qualities and wealth of experience guided the work of the historic fiftieth session in an exemplary manner. We wish to convey our great gratitude to him. Finally, I pay well-deserved tribute to the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his outstanding efforts to strengthen the role of the United Nations and for the talent and tenacity with which he has guided the Organization in these difficult times. In July 1996, the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity adopted in Yaoundé, Cameroon, a declaration expressing its appreciation for and stressing the work done by Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali at the helm of the United Nations. According to tradition and the rules of fairness, Africa is entitled to a second mandate, which we hope will come about. The current trends on the international scene are disquieting. The sovereign equality of States and the principle of free trade are being damaged by unilateral measures, despite the fact that the General Assembly of the United Nations has reaffirmed these principles and the strict respect that should be accorded to them. Moreover, we are facing a financial crisis that is essentially caused by the default on payments of assessed contributions due to the Organization. The overwhelming majority of speakers who have preceded me have said that this practice is unacceptable, particularly on the part of those who have the capacity to pay. The procedures and decision-making process of the Security Council are still fairly opaque, despite some minor openings. The geographical origins of the permanent members run counter to the principle of equitable geographical distribution. The cause of this is historical, but this perception is now more widespread and stark, 51 years after the creation of the Organization. Yet today, through the deliberations and decisions of the Security Council, a veritable body of substantive international law, armed with sanctions and strewn with ad hoc tribunals, is emerging. After 51 years, the General Assembly, the pedestal and guarantor of this structure, finds itself stripped of its powers and even of its functions. We cannot compare the General Assembly to the Security Council but recent developments in these two bodies have accentuated their differences instead of emphasizing their complementarity, which is not a healthy situation. Ironically, this situation coincides with the vehement, ongoing clamour for transparency and democracy everywhere. The reform of the United Nations system is understood in various ways and we have yet to find the formula that can be supported by everyone. Difficulties arise from the demands of some and the reluctance of others. Clearly, reform must be a joint effort or it will not come about. We are concerned because all of these combined factors might encourage the disturbing trends to which I referred earlier. Indeed, the financial situation of the United Nations is central to the significance and future of our Organization. An institution, a community of men and women, can be created by force — can, for a time, be maintained by force — but it is not force that makes them last. The idea of leadership is based on the ability to take decisions as well as on moral authority. Moral authority is based on the ability to convince the majority in a lasting and complete way. To be followed without conviction is to run the risk of abandonment as soon as short cuts can be safely taken. The joint aspiration of the States Members of the United Nations was, is and must remain that of following a common path beneficial to all. It is no coincidence that in the Charter, drafted at the end of a conflict in which Powers imposed themselves on other Powers, spirit and letter came together so that States large and small could feel involved as much in the responsibilities and decision- making as in the outcome. Hence the principle of the sovereign equality of States, who assumed that, regardless of their size or importance, each should participate to the best of its ability in the functioning of the Organization because, in this way, each worked equally to attain the principles and purposes of the Charter. Nor is it a coincidence that those which bore a greater burden in this respect were given a privilege in the Security Council, though it was to be exercised on behalf of all and for the benefit of all. What is happening nowadays? The United Nations is unique. It is political. Its role and its objectives are very special. How can we, therefore, try to see it as a company whose shareholders want to move it in a particular direction on the basis of the number of shares they hold? How could we continue to call ourselves United Nations? The United Nations has charge over destinies and people. It is also an institution that must be managed, but one in which everyone has a place. I have dwelt at length on this point because Burkina Faso is a community of men that understands, appreciates and supports the fact that the United Nations is irreplaceable. It is an instrument which has no equal and we desire a world of fraternity and progress. Africa is fighting for its development, although beset by crises and conflicts, such as those in Liberia and Burundi. In Liberia, after the events of April 1996, the summit meeting of the Committee of Nine and a certain open-mindedness on the part of faction leaders calmed the situation, permitted the nomination of a new Head of State in the person of Ms. Ruth Perry, opened up prospects for the holding of elections. We encourage this trend. In Burundi, a military coup d’état swept away civilian rule, but the fraternal States of the subregion rejected fait accompli by ordering sanctions. We are therefore concerned by the situation in that country, which has already been traumatized by numerous ethnic conflicts. The international community should pay heed to that and provide resources. Turning to the subject of Taiwan, Burkina Faso would refer to the principle of universality in the matter of representation of 22 million people. We hope that an ad hoc committee will be established. Poverty is on the rise. It is the result of the policies of the countries that control the markets. Poverty is also the consequence of unequal distribution among the developing countries. In all cases, statements on both sides very often sound like incantations crashing against the wall of cold implacable reality. The idea of globalization, paradoxically, goes hand in hand with that of fragmentation, both political and economic. The world conferences held over the past six years have promoted the concept of partnership. We still need to give that concept real content and weight. Unfortunately, we still possess neither of these despite real efforts by some partners of the North. Invective, tirades of complaint and exhortations have not advanced the debate nor brought us closer to the right solutions. From 16 to 20 September 1996, we held the mid- term review of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. We thank Ambassador Owada and his country, Japan, for their 3 interest in the development of Africa. However, we must acknowledge that the results of our negotiations with our other partners continue to fall short of our expectations, needs and priorities, although Africa has largely met its commitments. The same goes for the mid-term review undertaken by the United Nations Children’s Fund on the outcome of the World Summit for Children. Increased resources are necessary and expected. Self-control is the beginning of wisdom, but it is not enough without an enabling environment. From the discussions in the Uruguay Round to the creation of the World Trade Organization, this point is constantly being borne out. Solidarity, the key word, must prevail and guide our actions if we want a global village, not just a series of enclaves that are more or less fortunate and in the long run condemned to mutual destruction. Multilaterlism could prevent that fate, especially since we are now seeing that the State is surrendering control over certain elements of its sovereignty. Everywhere, structures and organizations with varying degrees of legality are transcending States and establishing transnational networks and relations. It is therefore imperative that we keep pace with these trends and adapt now and in the future our special instrument, our common instrument: the United Nations at the service of peoples. Political will is what will make the difference.﻿On behalf of the Government and people of Thailand, I should like to extend my warmest congratulations to Your Excellency upon your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, which marks the beginning of the next half-century for the United Nations. I am confident that, with your leadership and guidance, this session will mark a successful beginning for the work of the United Nations in the next 50 years and in the new century. From what we have seen so far, you are already off to a good start. By insisting on beginning our meetings on time over the past three weeks and not succumbing to the traditional half-hour delay before starting the meetings, you have, in effect, prevented the wastage of both time and money for the United Nations and its Member States. This act is truly an admirable display of leadership. My delegation looks forward to seeing more such constructive initiatives in the future. As a close neighbour of Malaysia and a fellow member of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, Thailand is particularly pleased to see you in this important office. You can count on my delegation’s fullest cooperation in all your endeavours at this session. My delegation also wishes to take this opportunity to express its sincere appreciation to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, the President of the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly, for his most commendable efforts in making the fiftieth session and the fiftieth anniversary year of the United Nations truly monumental and fruitful. My delegation is especially grateful to Mr. Freitas do Amaral for his role in facilitating the work of the General Assembly’s working groups on the reform of the United Nations, particularly the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and other matters related to the Security Council. Under his stewardship, that Working Group was able to adopt, for the first time, a substantive and comprehensive report which was acceptable to all. As we enter the next half-century of the United Nations and the closing years of the twentieth century, it is becoming increasingly clear that we, our children and grandchildren will soon be living in a new era that is very different from today’s. The last decades of this century have set the stage for a major shift in global paradigms that will forever change the way in which we live and work. In recent years, events such as the population explosion, the ebbing of the ideological tide and the technological and communications revolution have brought to the fore such issues as the management of food and resources, preservation of the environment, the need to improve income distribution, education and health care, and the promotion of civil rights and equalities, democracy and good governance. In the United Nations and elsewhere, there is a clear indication that the prominence of such issues will continue into the next century and beyond. If we are to be able to address these issues, deal with them in an efficient manner, go through the transition and adjust ourselves to the paradigm shift, we need a concerted and comprehensive approach. This approach should be proactive rather than reactive and should be able to provide a new course of action for future generations. The development and implementation of such an approach require leadership at the global level. As the only international body that deals with a vast array of global issues on a daily basis, the United Nations is in a unique position to provide that leadership. Thailand is convinced that, in order to be able to assume a leadership role, it is imperative that the United 3 Nations first be reformed and revitalized at all three levels — intergovernmental, organizational and managerial. It is for these reasons that Thailand attaches great importance to the work of the General Assembly’s five working groups on United Nations reform. Thailand believes that, if given the necessary political will and cooperation from Member States, each of these working groups will soon be able to make specific recommendations to the General Assembly that would serve as salient elements of a single comprehensive reform package. It is unfortunate, however, that, in spite of the fact that most of these working groups have been in existence for two to three years, a compromise on crucial issues is nowhere in sight. Furthermore, should this trend continue, it is unlikely that we will see any substantial achievement from these working groups in the near future. This desolate scenario is certainly detrimental to the future of the United Nations, especially when we are merely a few steps away from the next century. It is the belief of my delegation that, if we are to make any progress in the work of the working groups, the time is now. The more we hesitate and bicker, the less chance there will be of any meaningful reform of the United Nations. Due to the lack of progress in the work of some of the working groups, some Member States have begun to suggest that deadlines be imposed on their work. Thailand does not believe that such deadlines are necessary. In fact, Thailand believes that, within a year or two, if no serious compromise is to be found, the momentum for reform efforts will simply wither away. At that point, we will no longer have to worry about deadlines or the efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations in managing itself and in dealing with twenty-first-century issues. Without the necessary reforms, the fate of the United Nations is sealed. My delegation therefore wishes to call upon all fellow Member States to redouble their efforts, in the spirit of cooperation and compromise and for the benefit of the greater whole, to help facilitate the work of the working groups in the hope that, in the very near future, they will be able to come up with practical recommendations to the General Assembly and that, eventually, a comprehensive reform package can be formulated. What is indispensable for the twenty-first century is a more capable, more representative, more accountable and better managed United Nations. Year after year, we speak about the need to reform the United Nations. Year after year, we come back to the same problem: the willingness or, to be more precise, the lack of willingness of Member States to see the United Nations become what they themselves said the United Nations should become. The United Nations cannot be reformed simply by lip-service. No meaningful reform of the United Nations can take place without the political, material and financial support of its Members. The failure of Member States to meet their financial obligations to the United Nations, in particular, not only undermines the United Nations ability to reform but, more importantly, in actuality is the root cause of some of the United Nations current inefficiencies. It is for this reason that my delegation finds it politically and legally unacceptable for Member States intentionally to withhold their assessed contributions to the United Nations on any grounds whatsoever. When my delegation speaks about United Nations leadership, we are referring specifically to two sources of leadership. The first is the General Assembly, as it is the most universal and, undeniably, the most important organ of the United Nations. The other is the Secretary-General as the chief administrative officer of the Organization. As far as the General Assembly is concerned, my delegation believes that it is essential that the pre-eminence of the General Assembly vis-à-vis other principal organs of the United Nations continue to be emphasized. This pre-eminence should be not only in words, but also in reality. The General Assembly must be the ultimate decision-making body on all important questions, as specified in the Charter, and not simply a rubber stamp for decisions or agreements concocted elsewhere. The General Assembly must truly be the voice of and moral compass for the international community. As for the Secretary-General, my delegation is of the view that the twenty-first century demands that the chief executive officer of the United Nations be someone with exemplary courage and vision. That person must have the courage to take bold initiatives, to stand up for what he or she believes is right as well as to promote and defend the interest of the greater whole. He or she must have the vision and the managerial adeptness to turn the United Nations into one of the most efficient and purposeful international institutions of our time. Due to the increasingly demanding responsibilities of the Secretary- General, Thailand is inclined to support the idea that the posts of Deputy Secretary-General be created and that these deputies be empowered to act on behalf of the Secretary-General in certain areas of his or her overwhelming responsibilities. Moreover, in order to be able to perform his or her functions with full efficiency 4 and without the interference of undue external pressures, a United Nations Secretary-General should serve only one term in office, be it of five or seven years. Through close coordination and cooperation between the General Assembly and the Secretary-General, a comprehensive approach for the future can be developed and implemented with efficiency. The development and implementation of this new approach should be guided by the main purposes of the United Nations, namely, the maintenance of international peace and security and the promotion of global economic and social development. These dual responsibilities are the raisons d’étre of the United Nations. They have come to symbolize the efforts towards global cooperation and my delegation believes that their goals should continue to be pursued with vigour and the fullest cooperation from United Nations Member States. In this connection, my delegation wishes to commend Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General, for his initiatives on “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development”. By having the foresight to come up with these very important documents in the early years of this decade, the Secretary-General has provided us with blueprints for the future upon which we can plan and visualize a new direction for a new United Nations. As I pointed out earlier, there is a clear trend that the main issues that will confront us in the future are those of economic and social development. The key concepts for the twenty-first century are sustainable economic growth and sustainable human and social development. For this reason, my delegation believes that now is the time for greater attention to be given to these issues. This belief does not stem from the fact that Thailand herself is a developing country, but rather from the realization that a solid economic and social foundation is an indispensable prerequisite for sustainable peace and prosperity. At the international level in particular, functional cooperation in these areas could create a network of interdependence based on goodwill and mutual interests, which could help eliminate conflicts and misunderstandings. It is with this belief that Thailand has consistently been a strong advocate of United Nations activities in the field of economic and social development, as well as humanitarian activities, and has been an active participant in the efforts to reform the mechanisms of the United Nations in these areas. A good example of Thailand’s commitment to the United Nations development effort is her agreement to host the tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in the year 2000. In the meantime, we are pleased that the five major international summits organized by the United Nations, ranging from the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 to Habitat II in Istanbul earlier this year, have proved to be useful in enabling Member States to focus on the various aspects of development and to cultivate a common vision and a comprehensive strategy for cooperation among themselves. We hope that the outcome of such conferences will help convince Member States of the need to render all necessary assistance and cooperation to the United Nations for its efforts in these areas. But while we believe that international cooperation could stimulate and promote development, we also believe that development efforts should, first and foremost, begin at home. As a developing country, Thailand has always attached high importance to both economic growth and social development and has aspired to achieve an equilibrium between the two. This is evident in all of Thailand’s national development plans. Currently Thailand is entering its eighth five-year national economic and social development plan. We are particularly proud of this plan, since, for the first time, the main focus is on human development: it is a human-centred national development plan. It is not by chance that the focus of this plan coincides with recent efforts of the United Nations and with the United Nations development strategy spelt out in the Secretary-General’s “An Agenda for Development” (A/48/935). In fact, the plan has been drawn up so as to complement and respond to development efforts at all levels: local, national, regional and global. As a country of 60 million people, Thailand sees that human and social development are the keys to national development, since without any doubt a nation’s most precious resource is its citizens. For this reason, through the years the Thai Government, often under the direct royal guidance of His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej, has been implementing hundreds of royal national development projects, ranging from environmental protection to education, from agriculture to public health care. Some of these projects, such as narcotic suppression through the introduction of crop substitution, are internationally recognized and are being implemented in close cooperation with the United Nations and other international agencies. As this is the year that the Thai nation celebrates the fiftieth anniversary of His Majesty’s ascension to the throne, we are more determined than ever to continue on this path and to rededicate ourselves to advancing the cause which is so close to the heart of 5 our beloved monarch. Therefore, in the years ahead Thailand will continue to work hard and to cooperate closely with the international community in order to realize the goals of sustainable economic, human and social development. An important instrument through which States can realize their economic and social development goals is international trade. It is therefore essential that all States be treated with fairness and be given the same opportunities in the international marketplace. This is the basic principle behind the establishment of the World Trade Organization. However, what we see now is a disturbing tendency on the part of some States to use non-trade issues, such as human rights and labour standards, as leverage in trade negotiations. Even more alarmingly, we are seeing an effort by some to exercise extraterritorial powers through domestic legislation, impinging upon the freedom of other States to pursue independent foreign policies and trading practices. My delegation cannot emphasize strongly enough the importance of keeping trade separate from other issues. Trade must remain free and open and not be held hostage to dissolute motives. Non-trade issues must not be brought in to be used as a smokescreen disguising neo-protectionist policies and practices. To allow such a phenomenon to continue would only undo the gains that we have made over the past half century. As mentioned above, Thailand believes in the time- proven notion that the benefits of functional cooperation in the field of economic and social development could have a positive spillover effect on efforts for the maintenance of international peace and security. However, this does not mean that Thailand is idly waiting for such an effect to materialize. On the contrary, as in the past, Thailand has continued to be active in the field of international peace and security and follows with vigilance the political and security developments in various parts of the world. We are keeping a watchful eye on, among other things, the peace process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the fragile peace efforts in the Middle East and the unfolding situations in such diverse places as Angola, Haiti and Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium. In particular, as a member of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations and the coordinator of the Non-Aligned Movement for this issue, Thailand is very much in support of the idea that the United Nations overall policy on peacekeeping should be re-examined. We believe that there should be clear guidelines and principles with regard to the scope, depth, objectives and mandates of United Nations peacekeeping activities in order to ensure that United Nations involvement in conflict situations will be practical, meaningful and cost-effective. At a time when the United Nations is facing a financial crisis, Thailand also supports the notion that there should be clear time-frames for United Nations peacekeeping operations. Of the existing 16 United Nations peacekeeping operations, two date back to the 1940s, one to the 1960s and two to the 1970s. These five peacekeeping operations, which have been running for decades, have thus far cost the United Nations and its Member States almost $240 million and, more importantly, the lives of 461 peacekeepers. Looking at these figures, one cannot but wonder whether it is the United Nations that is not keeping the peace, or the parties involved that are not willing to have peace. Whatever the answer is, the international community is paying a high price for these operations, without any end in sight. As international and internal conflicts rage on, the armaments business continues to prosper. My delegation is gratified that the Disarmament Commission, at its 1996 session, was able to adopt the guidelines for international arms transfers. Despite their lack of legal force, the guidelines are an important step towards eliminating illegal armaments, especially small arms, which in our lifetime have caused too many losses and too much suffering to peoples in all corners of the world. My delegation believes that, parallel to this effort to regulate the flow of arms, there should also be methods of bringing to justice the perpetrators of crimes and violence against humanity. It is in this belief that my delegation welcomes the Economic and Social Council’s United Nations Declaration on crime and public security as well as the efforts to establish an international criminal court. Even though these mechanisms will not make our lives more secure, they nevertheless give us hope that from now on there will be punishment to suit the crime. 6 As far as human destruction is concerned, nothing is more terrifying than the threat of a nuclear holocaust. For this reason, my delegation is pleased that the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) has now been adopted by the General Assembly and is currently open for signature by interested States. Once in its operational phase, the Treaty will be an important complement to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), which was extended indefinitely in 1995. However, neither the CTBT nor the NPT are adequate guarantees against the threat of a nuclear holocaust. My delegation believes that the only practical way to safeguard the world against a nuclear catastrophe is to eliminate all nuclear weapons. This can be done on a step-by-step basis within a definite time-frame. As a starter, in the spirit of the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice earlier this year, we could deny the legality of the use or the threat of use of nuclear weapons. Eventually, we can make the total elimination of all nuclear weapons and their delivery systems, as well as of other weapons of mass destruction, a top priority for the twenty-first century. Last year, our Heads of State and Government gathered here to pay tribute to the United Nations for its 50 years of service to humankind and to renew their pledge to continue to work with the United Nations to realize the hopes and dreams of the framers of the United Nations Charter. Through the Declaration adopted on that occasion, our leaders also promised to “give to the twenty-first century a United Nations equipped, financed and structured to serve effectively the peoples in whose name it was established”. (resolution 50/6, fifth preambular paragraph) Today, I am here to reaffirm that pledge and to propose further that the United Nations assume the leadership role that would help guide us into the next century. In providing this leadership, the United Nations need not depart from what it has been doing for the past 50 years. The United Nations should continue to do what it does best in areas such as the maintenance of international peace and security; economic, human and social development; humanitarian emergencies; promotion of democracy and human rights; environmental protection; and technical cooperation. The only differences are that in future the United Nations will have to do these things much better and in a more effective and efficient manner. And, more importantly, the Organization will have to project a clearer sense of purpose and direction, which will help Member States and their peoples formulate a universal and comprehensive approach to cope with the emerging paradigms of the twenty-first century. We are about to cross the threshold into a new and challenging era. Through the leadership of the United Nations, we can turn the challenges into rewards and opportunities.  ﻿It is with profound pleasure that I salute the President, a diplomat of experience and stature and one worthy to preside over the functions of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I wish to recall that it was his country and mine that brought the question of Antarctica to the United Nations, and our countries have worked closely together for a number of years. We have made progress as countries from various parts of the world have joined us in an effort to preserve Antarctica as the last natural heritage of mankind. His country’s efforts in regard to the betterment of the global community are deeply admired by my countrymen, and it is with a sense of genuine cordiality that we refer to Malaysia as a friendly and brotherly country. Permit me also to extend sincere thanks to the outgoing President, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, who so ably led the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. On 7 July of this year Hurricane Bertha passed perilously close to Antigua and Barbuda, and our twin- island State sustained some damage. Small island developing States like ours are subject to various natural disasters — earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and hurricanes. In 1974, we experienced an earthquake that measured 7.8 on the Richter scale and caused considerable destruction. A volcano on the island of Montserrat, some 50 kilometres from our shores, has been active for the past 15 months. Our people live in constant fear of fall-out and tidal waves from a major eruption. The natural phenomenon presently plaguing Montserrat could be a prelude to a disaster that can destroy small islands globally. Evidence of the warming of the planet has clearly emerged, and extreme weather events have become more frequent and intense. Last year, Hurricane Luis unleashed its fury on our country for 48 hours and was declared to have been the worst storm of the century. Hurricane Marilyn followed in its wake, intensifying the damage. Indeed, we remain grateful to the countries and institutions that provided various forms of assistance to help in the reconstruction. In addressing the General Assembly of the Organization of American States this year, our envoy noted that development is not sustainable if a score of storms and hurricanes are to trample through our region each year. Carbon dioxide emissions caused by the burning of petroleum, coal, wood and gas since the start of the Industrial Revolution in western Europe 200 years ago have begun to place the survival of small islands in jeopardy. Harmful production, wasteful consumption and dangerous disposal patterns continue to characterize the behaviour of the largest industrialized States. We must therefore reduce carbon dioxide emissions to the agreed Toronto targets. Together, let us address the challenge so that we may bequeath to future generations a better and a safer world than we inherited. Our demise will only signal the beginning of the end of a marvellous civilization, more creative and more inventive than any that has gone before. Between 1 and 15 July Antigua and Barbuda played its part at the human settlement Conference, Habitat II, at Istanbul, and we urge that the Istanbul Declaration and Plan of Action be adhered to. It must be recognized that it is in the cities and towns of the new urban world, where most of us will ultimately live and work, that most economic activity will take place and goods be produced. It is where most pollution will be generated and national resources consumed, with an impact felt far beyond city limits. Moreover, it will be in the cities and towns of this urban world that growing social tensions and conflict, rooted in poverty and the maldistribution of resources, will be resolved, and where the key to true human security will be found. The problems of urbanization are not limited to the more endowed countries. We too, despite our small size, have to cope with the varying patterns and outcomes that demand responses that have at times threatened to overwhelm us. Nevertheless, I am happy to report that in Antigua and Barbuda we have made considerable progress towards control and adequate regulation. 1 Under the guidance of the Development Control Authority and the Central Housing and Planning Authority major initiatives have been undertaken, with assistance from the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements and the United Nations Development Programme. The Government, in partnership with other sectors of society, is playing a multiple role in improving living and working conditions on an equitable basis to enable all its citizens to enjoy adequate shelter, affordable basic services and sustainable human settlements. The Government of Antigua and Barbuda not only performs the functions of a national policy-maker and housing administrator, but also serves in the capacity of lender and developer. In those roles, it has ensured that interest rates are kept at reasonable levels and that repayment periods for loans are as long as 20 years. In its regulatory role, the Government of the Labour Party has put forward development standards, stipulated building procedures and integrated land and shelter policies with programmes for reducing poverty and assuring employment, for environmental protection, for improvement in education and health, and for providing clean water and sanitation facilities. This is indeed a strange and puzzling world. With reference to sustainable development, a myth has gathered momentum that maintains that the developing world is making significant forward strides. World Bank data, however, demonstrate that over 60 per cent of the countries in which the United Nations and other bodies have development assistance operations have witnessed declines in real per capita income over the decade ending in 1994. James Gustave Speth, the Special Coordinator for Economic and Social Development, in a forceful and moving presentation at the opening of the 1996 substantive session of the Economic and Social Council, noted two major ironies of the current situation. He declared that now that the world is freed from distorting effects on development cooperation, just when the development assistance community has learned so much more about how to succeed and do its job well, just when the needs of the developing world are growing rapidly and dramatically — just at this precise time, the resources that are needed for development cooperation are shrinking rapidly and dramatically. In the past four years, real development assistance has declined by 20 to 25 per cent. The other irony is that just when there is a better understanding of the essential links between peace and development cooperation, just when the United Nations is called upon to assume much greater responsibilities in the follow-up to conferences and in post-conflict peace- building and other areas, just when the United Nations is reforming and strengthening itself to do these things, the Organization finds itself threatened by a financial crisis that afflicts both its assessed and its voluntary contributions. Indeed, Speth sees the above as not only ironies, but as tragedies of our era. This, the major international Organization, is restructuring itself and endeavouring to undertake meaningful reform. While it may be true that the existing financial crisis is primarily a crisis of payment, there is no denying the fact that there is unnecessary waste being generated here, whether in regard to the duplication of work detail, the excessive copying of documents, the scheduling of numerous meetings destined to accomplish nothing or to a myriad of other undesirables. Financial concerns are not, however, the only issue of which the world body is seized. Reform is being undertaken in a multi-pronged manner, which in itself will be a long process that can be justified in a Benthamite way by emphasizing the greatest good for the greatest number. At present, even though the discussions have been considered to have made progress, there is not even the glimmer of a discernible outcome in regard to the “Question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council and related matters”. Although consensus exists on expanding the Council, the manner in which that can be achieved equitably remains to be resolved. Antigua and Barbuda is firm in its declared position that any expansion should include developing countries and that both the African and the Latin American and Caribbean Groups should be represented. Similarly, Antigua and Barbuda would like to see certain restrictions placed on the use of the veto. We understand that all efforts at restructuring and reform in the United Nations, however, should be focused on economic growth and development. In this whole process of misunderstandings, the regional commissions are being placed under attack through cut-backs and in some instances calls for their dissolution. This is particularly hard on those of us who are being served by the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC). We see ECLAC as a regional organization that has already reformed itself and should not be penalized by calls for further reforms. ECLAC has rendered valuable service through subprogrammes on economic development, social development, international trade, development financing and transport, industrial, agricultural, and technological modernization, environment, natural resources and human settlements, statistics and economic projections, the integration of women into development, regional integration and cooperation, economic and social planning and population. In all of these fields, ECLAC collaborates with the Governments of the Americas in the investigation and analysis of public policy, provides technical assistance and training, and promotes regional cooperation. For those of us in the Caribbean it is imperative that ECLAC be fully sustained to continue to assist us in these and other areas. This is set against the backdrop of the pressures that are being brought to bear on the Caribbean region, which Prime Minister Lester Bird described at the meeting of Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) on 6 July. He spoke of the right- wing voices that are ready to impose upon the States of the Caribbean Community a new colonialism under a variety of guises, such as those of limited sovereignty and extraterritoriality. Indeed, the very economic survival of some Caribbean States is threatened as a result of pressures brought against countries whose sustenance depends almost entirely upon the production of a yellow fruit. Most of the countries affected by the banana dispute are former European colonies, and the continuation of their historic access to European markets is crucial to their economic survival. Without some form of protection, the banana industry in the CARICOM States would collapse, leading to severe social dislocation that would ultimately manifest itself in political catastrophe. Recognizing the significance of banana production to some of our economies, the European Union has a programme in which a small portion of its market is reserved for Caribbean producers, a portion that is less than 10 per cent. This has certainly not been a major problem for the big companies, for a handful of multinational concerns still controls 60 per cent of the European market and 70 per cent of the overall market. However, it appears that Bob Herbert, in an editorial of 13 May, was correct when he asserted: “for the multinationals, enough is never enough”. (The New York Times, 13 May 1996, Section A, p. 15) Indeed, for countries where literacy rates are in the ninetieth percentile and where political prisoners are unheard of, it would be disastrous if the economies of their societies were to be destroyed through the destruction of the banana industry. The bleakness of the aforementioned situation is, however, offset by the ideas expressed at the Tokyo Conference on Development Strategy in March of this year, where it was posited that there is the will to sustain a new global partnership and make it effective. There was consensus that the issues that stretched beyond mathematical economics, that is, issues such as those incorporating poverty, the environment, the advancement of women and food security, had to be tackled at both the national and international levels. It was nonetheless brought out that many developed countries are experiencing harsh financial difficulties that are imposing severe limits on their capacity to contribute to the international organizations. Thus, the nations of the world had first to respond to the challenge of poverty by striving for its eradication. Secondly, the key to success clearly lies in nations working together to build and implement a development strategy to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. Thirdly, in the process of working out and implementing a new development strategy, it is crucially important to reinvigorate the roles of the international organizations, and in particular that of the United Nations. Of significant concern to developing countries was the statement that in efforts to secure sufficient resources it is important to take steps in other policy areas such as trade or technological transfer. In addition, the globalization of the world economy makes it important to promote the development of human resources and the capacity for institution-building in developing countries. In its Human Development Report 1996, the United Nations Development Programme acknowledged that, although some countries are experiencing unprecedented economic growth, the quality of human development does not always reflect that progress. While many countries of the developing world are struggling with the implications of trade liberalization and globalization, individuals within these societies are faced with a complementary struggle. The sad fact is that as long as selective liberalization between countries remains, individuals within countries will find it more difficult to escape the downward spiral into the depths of poverty. It hardly takes a stretch of the imagination to recognize, therefore, that an early investment in building human capacity is incumbent upon 3 any society wishing to achieve economic and social development that is both equitable and sustainable. While it can truly be said that the 1990s signalled the end of the cold war and witnessed the dissolution of a bipolar world, the conflicts we are witnessing today are localized and appear to be gathering momentum as a result of ethnic, religious and civil considerations. There is clearly an upsurge of micronationalism, which fosters separatist considerations. There is much social disruption, mass starvation and the spread of contagious diseases. Of an extremely frightening nature is the fact that access to victims is often rendered difficult or impossible. There is clearly a deepening lack of security for relief personnel and supplies. Clearly, there is a need for the demobilization of paramilitary groups, for demining and for an intensification of peacemaking, peacekeeping and peace-building. It must be recalled that the United Nations came into existence to ensure peace among nations. With that in mind, we should be prepared to take steps beyond a Non- Proliferation Treaty and a Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and move towards the elimination of weapons of mass destruction within a time-bound framework. Responses to the myriad of desperate problems have to be interdisciplinary in nature, for there is no single United Nations agency that can control, pacify, and rehabilitate effectively. Recognizing the dangers of increased international criminal activity in the region, Antigua and Barbuda is working with its neighbours and expects to receive additional assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources to initiate a national drug and money-laundering control policy. Priorities of the policy include legislative and regulatory reform, increased interdiction activities, technical training, preventive health and public education and training. Given its multidimensional nature, the drug problem is one that the United Nations system is particularly well equipped to address. However, working alone, the Organization is helpless to tackle this scourge that cuts across all sectors of society, impacting on families, health and economic activity. There needs to be greater coordination among nations if the blight of narcotics is to be tackled in a meaningful way. Strong and determined efforts within certain countries will be seriously undermined if there is not a united global approach to manifestations and practices that will destroy not only the fabric of our societies but the lives of countless individuals. The plague of terrorism must be controlled. The appeals of two South Asian nations to have an international convention against terrorism must be heeded. Often, terrorism is linked to narcotics. Not only do the States of the eastern Caribbean have fears of subversion, they are also concerned by the intense violations of ports and harbours and the corresponding graft as their countries serve as transit points. In concluding, I would like to say that as the representatives of the global community we have to live up to the trust placed in us by our constituencies. Multilateralism must be paramount as we strive toward ways and means for better management of our planet. We must agree on common values for common survival. Our constituents are calling for an end to senseless violence and for the re-emergence of concepts of compassion and equity. They are asking for our dialogue to be creative and forward-looking. The peoples of different regions must be prepared to make sacrifices and to suppress the barriers that divide — barriers such as hatred, selfishness and bitterness. Let us not forget the words of Philip Vundla, an executive of the African National Congress, who said: “What you achieve by violence, you will need greater violence to maintain. Those who say the answer is bloodshed have other people’s blood in mind, not their own.” However, the fundamental need in regard to advancement remains that of economic reality. Michel Camdessus of the International Monetary Fund reminded the leaders of the G-7 countries on 24 June that: “Too many refusals to grant development assistance have the alibi that such funds are wasted. This slippage, as well as the so-called donor fatigue, must be vigorously combated if the international community wishes to be in a position to keep the poorest countries from marginalization and to steer the world away from the tensions and crises that extreme poverty cannot but engender whenever it occurs. Marginalization is not inevitable, and every country has its opportunity in this globalized world.” 4 My country recognizes the fact that we are in an era of unprecedented change and opportunity, a period in which scientific developments and technological achievements seem almost miraculous and offer an improved quality of life. The United Nations should become embedded in reality and push the critical issues involving destitution and social injustice to the centre of both national and public debate. Antigua and Barbuda takes pride in and cherishes the United Nations and we believe that it has been judged, unjustly, more by its failures than by its successes. But the work done in regard to health, human rights, peacekeeping activities, disaster mitigation and assistance to developing countries presents an enviable record. The United Nations has the capacity for achievements in areas beyond the reach of national or regional authorities. Subsequently, the nations that comprise this body must redouble their collective commitment to translating vision into reality. In this way, we will thrust the United Nations manfully forward into the dawning twenty-first century.  ﻿On behalf of the Nigerian delegation, I convey to Mr. Razali Ismail our congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. His election is a recognition of his wide-ranging experience, candour and diplomatic skills. It is also a tribute to his great country. We are confident that, under his presidency, the work of the General Assembly will be highly successful. May I also convey the appreciation of my delegation to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas Do Amaral of Portugal, for the admirable manner and great sense of commitment with which he conducted the affairs of the fiftieth session of the Assembly. Nigeria also commends Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali for the energy, sense of purpose and direction which he has brought to bear on the office of the Secretary-General in the meritorious service of our Organization. When we met last year to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we observed that a number of developments on the political and economic scene had affected relations between States and modified the configuration of power at the global level. We 9 recognized that the United Nations continues to be a viable instrument for the conduct of relations amongst States. We rededicated ourselves to the principles and objectives of the United Nations Charter, including, in particular, the promotion of social and economic development and the maintenance of international peace and security. In this endeavour, the United Nations has a central role to play. Member States, in line with their obligations under the Charter, have a duty to assist the United Nations in carrying out this responsibility. This requires the political commitment of all Member States and in particular of those upon which the Charter confers special status. Some of the developments which have occurred on the international scene include the globalization of the world economy, the upsurge in market economies, the rise in economic growth in a number of countries and the growing trend towards political pluralism and democratization. However, new forms of conflict, new nationalisms, terrorism, an increasing incidence of poverty and global social decline have cast a sombre shadow on international peace and security, as well as on economic growth and development. The growing incidents of conflict, whether in Europe, in Africa or in the Middle East, and the slow pace of their resolution, are helping to exacerbate international tension and undermine confidence among States. The United Nations has a duty in this regard to redefine its role and sharpen its peacemaking and peacekeeping tools in order to effectively address them. Peace is indivisible. The burden of peace, therefore, should be shared by all in a mode of global responsibility and partnership. Let me add also that the maintenance of international peace and security is not an exclusive responsibility of the United Nations. Regional and subregional arrangements have important roles to play and have demonstrated their commitment. Although many regions of the world are now witnessing one form of conflict or another, with varying degrees of implications for the United Nations system, no region perhaps is more afflicted by this menace than Africa, both in the number of conflicts currently raging and in their unimaginable negative effects on the people. The individual and collective efforts of African States to achieve socio- political transformation have been threatened by these conflicts. In spite of this, the States of Africa have continued to make concerted efforts at regional and subregional levels to address this situation. The unique role being played by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Mechanism for Conflict Prevention Management and Resolution is important and should be supported by the international community. Nigeria welcomes the cooperation between the OAU and other regional organizations and the United Nations in the field of preventive diplomacy, peacekeeping and peacemaking. In our own subregion, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) undertook an unprecedented initiative in crisis management by establishing a peacekeeping force, the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG), in Liberia six years ago. In spite of the difficulties we have encountered in the process, we remain committed in our endeavour to help the Liberian process reach its logical conclusion. In this regard, Nigeria shares the view of many observers who have described the revised Abuja peace agreement of August 1996 as providing the best legal framework for the resolution of the Liberian crisis. I am pleased to report that the implementation of the Agreement revised at Abuja last August is now on course. A new Council of State, headed by Mrs. Ruth Perry, has been installed. Since her installation, Mrs. Perry has enjoyed the considerable confidence of the other members of the Liberian National Transitional Government and indeed of most Liberians. I take this opportunity to appeal to all Liberians to extend cooperation to the new leadership in the interest of peace in their country. Let me assure the Assembly that it is the determination of my Head of State, General Sani Abacha, Chairman of ECOWAS — in collaboration with other leaders in our region and with the support of the international community as a whole — to ensure the resolution of the Liberian crisis. It is our expectation that the Liberians themselves will assume their destiny in favour of peace, national reconciliation and national reconstruction. We therefore renew our appeal to the international community to provide much-needed financial, material and logistic support to enable ECOMOG and the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL) to effectively discharge their respective mandates. Meanwhile, we acknowledge with appreciation the renewed cooperation and assistance with the ECOWAS effort of some of the members of the international community. Of great importance to the search for peace in the various troubled spots of the world is the urgent need to control the instruments of war. It is a matter of deep regret that the end of the cold war has not ushered in in its wake any appreciable reduction in the global arms build-up. As the arms build-up and the proliferation of conflicts are mutually reinforcing, there is an urgent need for the international community to contain the trend. The 10 threat posed by existing stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction and conventional armaments is yet to be removed. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), a priority item on the disarmament agenda of the United Nations, has been adopted. In spite of the imperfections of this Treaty, the Nigerian Government was able to support it and will be signing it in due course. Its adoption, which puts an end to the further qualitative improvement of nuclear weapons and arsenals, represents a significant first step towards the goal of nuclear disarmament. It is our expectation that the Conference on Disarmament, the single multilateral negotiating body on disarmament, will now take the next logical step to negotiate such disarmament within a time-bound framework. The nuclear-weapon States have a clear responsibility and duty to cooperate with the Conference on Disarmament to negotiate such a treaty. The adoption of the Treaty of Pelindaba creating a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Africa has been an important contribution to confidence building in Africa, in addition to being a collateral disarmament measure. In view of the overwhelming support enjoyed by the Treaty beyond the African continent, it is recommended that other regions undertake similar efforts by establishing nuclear-weapon- free zones or zones of peace. While it is commendable to observe that the majority of nuclear-weapon States have since signed the protocol to the Treaty, we take this opportunity to urge other States that have not yet done so to do so, in order that the full objectives of the Treaty can be achieved. Peace and development are mutually reinforcing. A just and enduring peace can only be founded on the general welfare and socio-economic progress of all peoples and all nations. It is indeed disconcerting to note that while the countries of the North are becoming more affluent, the countries of the South, which contain the majority of the world’s population, are getting more impoverished. We must collectively recognize and accept the fact that the deepening crisis of development faced by developing countries can only undermine the new world order which we seek to create. Africa, in particular, has continued to experience the crippling impacts of external debt, deteriorating terms of trade, increasing barriers to trade, declining investment and financial inflows, and capital flight. African countries recognize that the primary responsibility for finding a solution to the economic difficulties facing the continent lies with themselves. Hence they have sought to put in place sound macro-economic policies and adopted very painful programmes of economic reform. However, their best endeavours have continued to be constrained by the prevailing unfavourable international economic climate. We believe that development cooperation should engender genuine interdependence, mutual interest and benefits in the context of global partnership, rather than the old mode of a donor-recipient relationship. We must recognize the central role of the United Nations in engendering the process of global development. In this regard, my delegation calls for faster progress in the ongoing work on the Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development. In the same spirit, we of the African continent urge the international community to deliver on its promises under the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN- NADAF). We have just taken part in the mid-term review of its implementation. We recognize that UN-NADAF has had a poor record of implementation. None the less, the United Nations system and the international community at large must deliver on their various commitments. Nigeria considers as complementary the Secretary- General’s United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa, particularly as it envisages collaboration and coordination of efforts between the international community, the Bretton Woods financial institutions and the United Nations development agencies on the issue of development. In recognition of its role as the centre for the harmonization of the actions of nations, the United Nations successful hosting of major global conferences on development — from New York in 1990 through Rio in 1992, Vienna in 1993, Cairo in 1994, Copenhagen and Beijing in 1995, to Istanbul in 1996 — deserves our special commendation. The faithful implementation of the decisions and programmes of action of these conferences would assist in bridging the yawning gap between the developing and the developed economies and constitute a substantive benefit to development. Accordingly, we endorse and will continue to give our unqualified support to the hosting of a special session of the General Assembly in 1997 to review the implementation of Agenda 21. It is hardly necessary to recall that contemporary international relations were founded on the basis of respect for the principles of sovereign equality of States, non-interference in the internal affairs of other States and peaceful co-existence. It is therefore a matter of great concern that these hallowed principles are increasingly being eroded by some powerful States. The United Nations should serve as the bulwark against the imposition of the will of the strong over that of the weak. Today all countries are engaged in a universal quest for human dignity. It is no longer sufficient for us to be content that our nations have been liberated from oppression and foreign domination. It is now universally acknowledged that the full meaning of national sovereignty cannot be realized unless the individual citizen is free to exercise his true conscience. The rise of this new international conscience is a legitimate extension of the earlier emergence of the new international morality which threw colonialism into disarray. There ought to be no conflict between national sovereignty and the fundamental rights of the individual. We welcome the growing international concern with human rights, but unless we are careful to strictly define the parameters of what actions justly constitute human rights and what are excesses threatening the security of the State as well as the safety and well-being of the citizens, we could unwittingly be doing a disservice to the essence of human freedom and dignity. We must therefore guard against the use of human rights as a pretext for advancing the individual or collective interests of one section of the international community against those of the other. In today’s world, the collation, delivery and management of information has become an essential component of development. Countries which are better endowed technologically have tended to use that endowment to the disadvantage of the less endowed. There is a need therefore to establish a New World Information Order, which respects the mutual sensitivities of States and protects the values of their differing cultures. Most developing countries lack the resources and technological capacity for the requisite information delivery. This, in no small measure, constrains their ability to project news of events in their society promptly and effectively, avoiding the tendentious reporting of the media in the developed countries. Nigeria’s desire to be friends with all nations, our commitment to the maintenance of international peace and security and our abiding faith in the principles enshrined in the charters of the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and our subregional organization, ECOWAS, are demonstrable and beyond question. It was therefore a matter of surprise to the Nigerian Government that this Assembly, in December 1995, adopted resolution 50/199 of 22 December 1995 on the human-rights situation in our country. We believe that this action was based largely on media reporting and without any investigation of the facts of the matter. In spite of the fact that the Nigerian Government was not happy with that action, we subsequently took the initiative to invite the Secretary-General to send a fact-finding mission to Nigeria to ascertain the realities on the ground. That mission visited the country from 28 March to 13 April 1996, and conducted its work unfettered. While the mission’s report identified areas of progress in our domestic situation, it also made constructive recommendations. I would like to take this opportunity to express the appreciation of the Government and the people of Nigeria to those Governments which took a principled position of not supporting the resolution against us. We note with satisfaction that since the United Nations visit, a growing number of countries have reconsidered their position on the matter in favour of Nigeria. We therefore urge the Assembly to take cognizance of these positive developments. The present Administration in my country has continued to make steady progress in the implementation of its programme of transition to democratic rule. The fundamental difficulties which faced our nation in its previous efforts at building a viable democracy are being progressively addressed, taking into account the objective realities of our national situation, so as to ensure an orderly transition and the establishment of durable democratic structures of governance at all levels in our country. We are encouraged by the successful outcome of the elections which were conducted at the local government level in March this year. The impressive turnout of voters nationwide and the general atmosphere of tranquillity prevailing in our country have elicited goodwill and support from within and outside the country. Political parties have now been registered and full political activities have resumed nation-wide. Our transition to civil rule is now fully on an irreversible course. In our resolve to ensure that the evolving democratic institutions take root in a fertile economic environment, the Nigerian Government has undertaken economic reforms aimed at promoting rapid growth and sustainable development. The overall macroeconomic performance of the economy has improved with the implementation of deflationary fiscal and monetary measures. Efforts are ongoing to establish a conducive environment for the promotion of investment, both domestic and foreign. Additionally, in recognition of the vital role of finance in the attainment of greater economic efficiency, a wholesale overhaul of the banking and financial services sector has been undertaken to sanitize this important sector of the 12 national economy. It is also worthy of mention that necessary instruments have been put in place in order to intensify economic deregulation and create a conducive environment for domestic and foreign investment. In the year 2010, Nigeria will be 50 years old as an independent and sovereign nation. It is envisaged that by that date, Nigeria will have achieved economic prosperity, political stability and social harmony. In order to realize this objective, our Government announced, a few weeks ago, a new socio-economic campaign, “Vision 2010”, to provide insights into and articulate the goals and objectives of our national economy in a macroeconomic format. It is also intended to focus on the contribution of the private sector as the engine of growth of our economy. We urge the international community to give this programme the necessary support and encouragement. In order for the United Nations to respond fully to the purpose for which it was established, there is need to strengthen the Organization and to reform its principal organs. Such reform must be system-wide and must be undertaken not for its own sake but to achieve efficiency and effectiveness. It should aim to enhance rather than weaken the capacity of the United Nations to respond effectively to the legitimate aspirations of all its Members. A vibrant and responsible United Nations requires an assured financial base. The failure or unwillingness of Member States to pay their assessed contributions as and when due is a dereliction of Charter obligations and a threat to the survival of the United Nations. For our part, Nigeria has continued to pay in full and without conditions our assessed contributions to the regular budget including, in particular, for the year 1996. We therefore call on all Member States that have yet to do so to pay their assessed contributions promptly, in full and without conditions. For several decades, the Middle East question has engaged the attention of the international community. Nigeria has been concerned with the various wars and acts of terrorism which have brought incalculable loss of life and property to that region. There can be no question but that we will continue to support the just struggle of the Palestinian people for their inalienable right to a homeland. There is an increasing awareness, even among the countries of the region, that the right of Israel to live within safe and secure borders can no longer be denied. We call on all parties to intensify their efforts to ensure that the peace process in the Middle East remains on course. For some time now, the world has been faced with a new upsurge in terrorist incidents. Nigeria condemns unreservedly all acts of terrorism in all its manifestations, as terrorism cannot be a substitute for dialogue and peaceful negotiations in resolving conflicts and misunderstandings between nations. We call on the General Assembly to take additional steps to eradicate the scourge of this menace, which also constitutes a threat to international peace and security. As the principal organ of the United Nations, the Security Council is in dire need of reform. Its composition must reflect the principle of equity, balance and equitable geographical distribution. It must seek to correct the current anomaly of the non-representation of Africa in the permanent membership category. We should, however, be mindful that reform of the United Nations, particularly in a period of transition, is an onerous undertaking. My delegation recognizes the vital role of the office of the Secretary-General in overseeing this reform process. In spite of the difficulties the United Nations is passing through and the fluidity of the international situation, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali has shown uncommon and unrelenting commitment to meeting the challenges of his office. He deserves our gratitude and continued support. We therefore wish to see him complete the laudable changes he has initiated, some of which are already yielding useful results. In this connection we reiterate and support fully the collective African position that Africa should be given the opportunity to serve two terms in the office of Secretary-General. For that purpose, Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali is the only candidate recommended by the Organization of African Unity. Like his predecessors, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali should be given a second term to serve our Organization. It is the only credible thing to do. This is a matter of principle in our country. My delegation recognizes the enormous tasks facing the Organization as it seeks to concretely address the challenges of the twenty-first century, and we wish to reaffirm Nigeria’s commitment to continue to contribute effectively to the realization of the Organization’s twin objectives of global peace and prosperity. ﻿Mr. President, please accept our heartfelt congratulations on the assumption of your high office. Your unanimous election is a tribute to your great country, with which we enjoy friendly and fraternal relations. It is also a testimony to your diplomatic skills and personal standing in this world forum, where, on so many occasions, you have articulated most persuasively the concerns of the international community, particularly those of the marginalized and vulnerable. You are assured of the unstinting support of my delegation in the discharge of your very heavy responsibilities. I should like to convey to your predecessor, the President of the General Assembly at its historic fiftieth session, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, our appreciation for a job well done. I should also like to pay a special tribute to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. In a very real sense, he is the first Secretary-General of the post- cold-war period, and has had to contend with issues and problems that were perhaps furthest from the minds and intentions of the founding fathers of our Organization. To his high office he has brought to bear clarity of vision and purpose, and a remarkable ability — as we have seen from two seminal reports, on the Agenda for Peace and the Agenda for Development — to present complex analyses and facts in a simple, distilled form. For nearly half a decade, he has handled what was once described by one of his predecessors as “the most impossible job on this earth” with verve, dignity and integrity. Over two decades ago, the father of our nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, addressed the General Assembly at its twenty-ninth session, soon after Bangladesh’s entry into the United Nations as a fully- fledged Member. In his speech he outlined some cardinal tenets, the basic focus and thrust of our foreign policy, and our domestic priorities. These hold good even today, in a world that has undergone radical transformation. As Bangabandhu stated, our foreign policy is based on the principles of peaceful coexistence and friendship towards all. Our political party, the Awami League, has only recently been returned to office, through the process of general elections, after a gap of more than 20 years. As was stressed by our leader at the twenty-ninth session of the General Assembly, our total commitment to peace is born of the realization that only in an environment of peace can our people concentrate their energies and resources in combating the scourges of poverty, hunger, disease, illiteracy and unemployment that still beset a large proportion of humankind. We naturally place special importance and emphasis on the development of good- neighbourly relations with the countries of our region, on the basis of universally accepted principles of peaceful coexistence, mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity and non-interference in each other’s internal affairs. We identify wholeheartedly with the aspirations and hopes of developing countries in general, particularly those belonging to the Non-Aligned Movement, and share a special affinity with the fraternal member States of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC). We share with our development partners the goal of improving the quality of life of our people, and our relations with them are of the greatest significance to us. 5 The existence of friendly and good-neighbourly relations does not necessarily preclude the emergence of problems. What these can ensure, however, is that the best of political will, goodwill and good intentions are brought to bear in seeking solutions to any outstanding problems or any new ones that may arise. Such an approach would go a long way towards resolving any differences or disputes. Our outstanding problem with India over the sharing of the waters of the Ganges River is not unknown to this forum. Water resources play a predominant role in the socio-economic development of a country. For Bangladesh, the availability of fresh river water in adequate volumes is indispensable for purposes of agriculture, irrigation, fisheries, river traffic, maintaining ecological and environmental balance and preventing the intrusion of salinity. The importance that we attach to this issue cannot be overemphasized and we have resumed bilateral discussions with India, in an atmosphere of mutual confidence and trust, to resolve this vexed problem amicably and equitably so that our legitimate concerns can be met. On the subject of water resources, I should like to digress a little from the purely national and also bilateral context, because the shortage of fresh water resources is not, let me emphasize, unique or peculiar to Bangladesh or our region. Even from the international perspective, it is an issue of primal significance. According to a recent strategy paper of the Committee on Natural Resources of the Economic and Social Council, by the year 2025, 52 countries with a total population of more than 3 billion people will be water-stressed or face chronic water scarcity. The problem has as much to do with the availability of fresh water in the overall global context as with the fact that such resources, even when available in abundant quantities, may be found in the wrong places or are available at the wrong times. The problem, therefore, is intimately and intricately linked to efficient water management. The question of water is not new to the global agenda and, since the Mar del Plata Conference in March of 1977, there have been international programmes on water-related issues. It has not, however, in our view, received the priority that it deserves. An international code of conduct for water-sharing was provided for in the Mar del Plata Action Plan and, as the strategy paper of the Committee on Natural Resources suggests, an international code of water ethics is needed more urgently today than ever before as a guide to help countries in their efforts to reach bilateral and multilateral agreements. The paper also suggests an international convention on freshwater resources along the lines of those that already exist on biodiversity, ozone depletion and climate change. In particular, the paper stresses that the United Nations should develop principles and ethics on sharing the joint planetary freshwater resources. These are ideas that, in our view, warrant serious consideration by the world community. Reverting to the subject of our Government’s priorities, let me just add that, in the domestic sphere, like all other developing countries, we are striving for a human development paradigm that will prioritize people, especially the most vulnerable and disadvantaged sectors. We will pursue a programme of reforms with emphasis on our domestic considerations: poverty alleviation and economic growth with social justice. The social sectors will receive special attention. The 1990s has been a period of democratic renewal. Our Government firmly believes that it is as important, and perhaps more difficult, to live up to great principles and ideas as to fight for their realization. That is why we shall strive to strengthen our polity through institutions and laws. Through constitutional amendment, an important innovation for democratic institutions and practice was effected in Bangladesh, following overwhelming popular demand, prior to our general elections in June. Three months before general elections are to be held, the Government will demit office and hand over power to a non-partisan and neutral caretaker Government to be headed by the most recently retired Chief Justice of the country and comprised of eminent apolitical personalities appointed on his advice, keeping in mind the sensitivities of the major political parties. The principal mandate of the caretaker Government will be to ensure free and fair general elections to be conducted by an independent constitutional authority, the Election Commission. Foreign observers were welcome to observe the electoral process, completely unhindered, in 1996 and 1991. Reports submitted by international observers can be of help in identifying any shortcomings or gaps that may exist and also contain constructive suggestions for improvement. These steps are the national equivalents of confidence- building measures between and among States. Democracy, of course, goes well beyond the holding of periodic general elections. It is a continuous process and even a culture and ethos, which above all denote a certain approach and attitude to governance. We in Bangladesh see democracy as more than a laudable and 6 desirable objective. In the long term, democratic and accountable government affords the most efficacious and stable medium to develop the economy of a State and to achieve prosperity for its people. The very apposite point has been made, however, that democracy cannot on its own be a panacea for the diverse problems that confront many countries. There must also be effective international cooperation and a supportive external economic environment if the major socio-economic problems are to be meaningfully addressed. The cold war is now truly behind us and the object now is to win the peace. Peace is not simply the absence of war, but should encompass every human condition, necessity and amenity that make for a civilized and dignified life. It is inseparable from security and is the flip side of development. Political, economic and social issues are today intimately and intricately intertwined. Political internationalism without economic internationalism can only be likened to a house built upon sand. Most emphatically in this day and age of interdependence, no nation can achieve its fullest development alone. This is an area where the United Nations and the United Nations system clearly have a constructive role to play. The main purposes of the United Nations, as outlined in Chapter I of the Charter, include the achievement of international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character and also to be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of these common ends. The Bretton Woods institutions are, of course, major players in the field of development policy and research. There is also, in our view, a patent need and ample justification in the Charter provisions for the United Nations and the United Nations system to play a meaningful role in global macroeconomic policy and strategy formulation. The United Nations is the universal forum for dialogue and decisions on such issues. This is an area in which, in particular, a revitalized Economic and Social Council can play a constructive and fruitful role. While the United Nations economic role provides special focus on operational, welfare and humanitarian activities, there is certainly a need for greater harmony and coordination between the United Nations systems on the one hand and the Bretton Woods institutions on the other. On the subject of development, let me reaffirm that a supportive external environment is an indispensable supplement to national efforts and policies. Poverty is arguably the prime source of world disorder and needs to be addressed, inter alia, through sustained and enhanced flows of resources from the North to the countries of the South. The gap between North and South is widening at an ominous rate. In 1890, the wealth of each European was twice that of a South Asian. Today, the gap is 70- fold. In 1960, the per capita gross national product of the richest 20 per cent of States was 30 times higher than that of the poorest 20 per cent. By 1989, the gap had widened to 60 times. By 1994, only four countries members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) had reached the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product as official development assistance. The average figure for DAC countries actually fell from 0.31 per cent in 1993 to 0.30 per cent in 1994. The least developed countries’ share of world trade has plummeted in two decades from 0.8 per cent to a mere 0.4 per cent. The problems of the 48 least developed countries continue to deserve special consideration on the global development agenda. The Mid-term Global Review of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s has pointed to the limited progress made in the implementation of commitments by our development partners. The development initiatives of the least- developed countries are stunted by problems associated with formidable structural adjustment programmes, the decline of an already low level of development resources, and the extremely low level of exports compounded by limited market access. The debt-relief measures taken thus far have remained grossly inadequate. We urge our development partners to adopt specific and concrete measures to redress these problems. We welcome the statements of several delegations that asked the removal of barriers on the products of the least developed countries. We believe that, at the forthcoming Ministerial Meeting of the World Trade Organization in December, every participant will work to remove all obstacles to trade from this vulnerable group of countries. The problems of developing countries are also, at one remove, the problems of the whole world, because prosperity, like peace and stability, is in the final analysis indivisible. For developed countries, assistance to the countries of the South will surely constitute an investment in a more secure, stable and, I have no doubt, eventually prosperous third world. The marginalization of developing countries would be morally indefensible, politically self- defeating and economically counter-productive. The aspirations of the South and the prosperity of the North are emphatically not mutually exclusive. 7 As the first United Nations Secretary-General put it, the United Nations was as strong an Organization as the representatives in San Francisco could agree upon. Half a century later, the United Nations remains the indispensable linchpin of any international order, a role for which it is uniquely conditioned, equipped and mandated. I should like to stress here that an effective and credible United Nations is even more vital and relevant for the smaller and more vulnerable States than for the more powerful ones. In today’s vastly altered world, the United Nations and its system offer even broader promise than what its founding fathers could have envisioned. However, like all organizations, the United Nations system is also subject to the Darwinian dictum of “adapt or perish”. Much thought, effort and work are therefore being devoted to the goal of making the United Nations more attuned and responsive to changing times and requirements, charting its future course and defining its new emphases and priorities. The United Nations areas of responsibility should clearly cover problems or issues between States, especially those that are pandemic in range and global in consequence. Environmental degradation, human rights, burgeoning populations, the situation and rights of women and children, the depletion of non-renewable natural resources, drugs, migration, international terrorism and corruption in international business could very well — in addition to issues of international peace, security and development — be the topical objects of United Nations policies and actions. We would, of course, want a United Nations that is streamlined and focused, open and accountable, with professional management systems and structures. On the subject of Security Council reform, a number of proposals have been mooted, including a wide-ranging one by Italy. There is a broad convergence, if not consensus, on the idea that the overall size of an expanded Council should not exceed a figure in the low or mid- twenties. An agreement as to whether expansion should cover only the non-permanent category or both categories of seats, or could even include a new semi-permanent category, still continues to elude us. It is our view that three aspects of the issue should be given priority. Firstly, the smaller and the more vulnerable States that by definition pose no threat to international security have the most vital stakes in the United Nations. Their interests and concerns may not be overlooked in any restructuring of the Council. Experience also shows that smaller countries with no vested interests have played a more constructive role as Council members in general. Secondly, the objective of any reform and restructuring should be a more effective and dynamic Council. Nothing should be allowed to detract from this. Thirdly, the moral dimension in determining criteria for possible new categories of membership or for any addition to permanent ranks should be given due consideration. This would include a country’s commitment to the principles and purposes of the Charter, to democratic government and the essential freedoms, human rights and, in general, respect for United Nations decisions. The Secretary-General is the most visible symbol and personification of the United Nations and the United Nations system. We see him as something more than the chief administrative officer of the Organization, as stipulated in the Charter, because he also has important political responsibilities. A former Secretary-General was of the view that the Secretary-General should be of help in “filling any vacuum that may appear in the systems which the Charter and traditional diplomacy provide for the safeguarding of peace and security”. While efforts are being made to enhance the effectiveness of the General Assembly, the Security Council and the operational arms of the United Nations system, we could perhaps consider ways of strengthening the office of Secretary-General. One idea that we would commend for consideration is the establishment of a committee, along the lines of the General Committee of the General Assembly, that the Secretary-General could consult, formally or informally, collectively or by individual member, on important administrative and political issues. Such a committee would serve useful purposes, particularly in ensuring the rightful role of the General Assembly. First, it would ensure closer interaction and exchange between the Secretary-General and the General Assembly. Secondly, it would provide the Secretary-General the benefit of dispassionate counsel and a feel for the thinking of Member States on issues in an institutional manner. And, thirdly, it would make for greater transparency in decision-making. The objective of any reform and restructuring exercise is a strengthened United Nations that is institutionally better equipped to fulfil its mandate. Reforms, however, can only supplement, not be a 8 substitute for the political will to do what is right and warranted by the purposes and principles and other provisions of the Charter. Over the years, when the United Nations has floundered or failed, the predominant reasons were more often, unfortunately, the lack of political will rather than insuperable local difficulties or institutional lacunas. I should like to touch very briefly upon the dismal financial situation of the United Nations, which has become very serious indeed. Member States have every right and even a duty to demand the best value for their money. The United Nations, however, must be provided the wherewithal to discharge its responsibilities. We welcome the United States commitment to meet its financial obligations to the United Nations and to pay its arrears over a five-year period. Some interesting suggestions on United Nations reform have emanated from the Group of Seven Summit in Lyon earlier this year. These envisage some savings from the removal of overlap, improvement in the effectiveness of some agencies and commissions, and consolidation and rationalization of certain programmes. I have no doubt that the Fifth Committee and perhaps the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions will look closely at these proposals. We, of course, welcome the suggestion that any savings from such reforms are planned to be reinvested in development programmes. A more realistic perspective of the expenditures incurred by the United Nations is afforded by comparing the United Nations budget with expenses incurred in certain activities by national or even local Governments. For example, in 1992, the United Nations regular assessed budget was about the size of the New York City Fire Department budget. In 1994, the cost of the entire United Nations system, including all emergency operations, was over $10 billion, or about $2 per capita of the planet’s population. The expenditure on arms in the same year was about $150 per capita. While every scope and avenue for greater cost- effectiveness should be explored, it is difficult to escape the conclusion that the United Nations gives good value for money. Expenditures on peacekeeping and the United Nations system are in a real sense an investment in peace and security. Disarmament has always been accorded a very high priority in the United Nations. In particular, the question of nuclear disarmament has always received the highest priority. With the end of the cold war, there is an increasing awareness of the need to address this issue in all earnestness. The indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) last year and the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty by an overwhelming majority in the General Assembly are welcome steps towards the ultimate goal of nuclear disarmament. The International Court of Justice, in its recent Advisory Opinion on the issue of nuclear weapons, stressed the obligation “to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control”. (A/51/4, para. 182 (f)) Like chemical and biological weapons, nuclear weapons must be outlawed. In the post-cold-war world, they have became an anachronism. They do not enhance international security and can only imperil world peace. For Bangladesh, the pursuit of general and complete disarmament is a fundamental principle of State policy. As a new member of the Conference on Disarmament, we are fully prepared to play a constructive role towards this goal. Bangladesh, together with most members of the G-21, has submitted a proposal in the Conference on Disarmament on the elimination of nuclear weapons. This has been circulated as a Conference on Disarmament document. We accept that substantial reductions are being made under START I and START II in the nuclear arsenals of the two major nuclear Powers. The uncomfortable fact remains, however, that even after START II is completed by the year 2003 at the latest, there will still be more nuclear warheads in existence than in 1970, when the NPT came into force. The need to move speedily towards a third START treaty and beyond is very obvious. Peacekeeping continues to be a most significant area of United Nations activity. The United Nations has indeed achieved some notable successes in peacekeeping missions in recent times, examples of which include those in El Salvador, Cambodia, Haiti, Mozambique and Angola. Bangladesh is proud to play an active role in United Nations peacekeeping activities. Our peacekeepers have shed their blood and sacrificed their lives in the cause of peace throughout the world. There is room for cautious optimism on the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We sincerely hope that the Dayton Agreement will be implemented in its entirety and 9 that a genuine peace will return to that beleaguered region. Bangladesh will continue to support all efforts towards this objective through regional as well as multilateral forums. Recent developments in the Middle East have been of concern to us all. Bangladesh expressed its grave concern and outrage at the recent violence and killings that took place in the West Bank and Gaza and the disrespect shown to the holy Al-Aqsa Mosque. We call upon all concerned to honour their commitments under the peace accord with a view to finding a comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East, which Bangladesh believes will enable the emergence of a Palestinian State with Jerusalem as its capital. The Government and the people of Bangladesh stand by President Yasser Arafat and our Palestinian brethren. We also reaffirm our commitment and support to the Arab and Palestinian cause. In a very real sense, the United Nations belongs to the entire human family. Over the years, it has been a potent moral force and an influence for the good. It remains the only credible vehicle that can move the world towards the goal of international peace and prosperity. The institution of the United Nations itself, comprised of Member States large and small, attests to mankind’s wisdom and desire for peace. We have every confidence and hope that, in the crucial years ahead, a revitalized United Nations will continue to play an effective role in deciding the transcendent policy issues of the day. Differences between peoples, countries and nations can and do exist, and yet all share a common vision, hopes and aspirations. Good men and women all over the globe must surely dream the same dreams of lasting peace and happiness. Over 50 years ago, a great world leader — one of the architects of the Atlantic Charter and one of the first persons to use the term “United Nations” — made an impassioned plea for peace when he wrote: “We are faced with the pre-eminent fact that if civilization is to survive, we must cultivate the science of human relationship — the ability of peoples of all kinds to live together and work together in the same world at peace.” President Roosevelt did not live to speak those words, which he wrote for what would have been his last address. His words are surely relevant even today. ﻿Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Razali Ismail on his assumption of the office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. I am confident that his valuable guidance will lead to the successful outcome of this session. He has the assurance of our full support. As an introduction, let me recall that this September marks the fifth anniversary of Estonia’s return to the international scene. It was five years ago that the Estonian blue, black and white tricolour was hoisted in front of this forum. That moment was equal in historic and emotional significance to the one 70 years earlier, in September 1921 in Geneva, when Estonia was welcomed as a new member of the League of Nations — an international organization whose history has taught the world many lessons. The cold war is over. Nevertheless, the international community continues to seek further guarantees of a more secure future for our children and grandchildren. In this respect, Estonia would like to express satisfaction at the recent overwhelming support for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty adopted by the General Assembly. The signing ceremony at the United Nations on 24 September was an important milestone, a result of continued negotiations and at the same time a sign of hope for the future. We firmly believe that the Treaty can make an important contribution to preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and promoting international security. The United Nations must now give a clear response to people who want to live in a world free of any threats of nuclear weapons and other means of mass destruction. Our world is facing new challenges. These new challenges require a renewed United Nations. At the last session, considerable efforts were made to reform the Organization. This work will continue during the current session. In fact, one of the principal goals of the session ahead of us will be to increase the effectiveness of the United Nations. Estonia welcomes the progress made in this area. There are still a number of ways by which the United Nations can further improve its performance. We attach particular importance to the review of the working methods of the functional commissions and expert groups and bodies of the Economic and Social Council, as well as to better coordination between the work of the Second and Third Committees. Estonia is looking forward to active participation in United Nations-reform working groups. We attach specific importance to the financial reform of the Organization. Estonia is supportive of the view that the United Nations should be put on a sounder financial footing. Member States should make every effort to fulfil their obligation to pay their arrears without any conditions. At the same time, we share the understanding that the United Nations scale of assessments should be revised. The new scale of assessments must be fair and more transparent. It should also better reflect the fundamental principle of capacity to pay. We hope that the High-level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations will achieve a comprehensive and consensus solution to the current financial difficulties of the Organization. The reform of the Organization will also include changes in the composition and working methods of the Security Council. We welcome the decision by the General Assembly mandating the relevant Open-ended Working Group to submit a report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. At the same time, we hope that, along the lines of the mandate of the Working Group, Member States can bring about a resolution to the long-standing discussions on Security Council enlargement. Peacekeeping continues to be one of the important activities of the Organization. Recent years have seen a changing role for United Nations peacekeeping missions. Today they have grown into manifold and diversified types of action. A new challenge for United Nations peacekeepers is dealing with internal conflicts throughout the world. In this respect, I would like to reiterate that regional peacekeeping efforts that are conducted under the auspices of the United Nations must remain under stringent United Nations control. Estonia is continuing to take part in United Nations peacekeeping. This autumn we will increase our contribution to the United Nations peacekeeping forces by offering a company to the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). The company will be deployed in the Norwegian battalion. The deployment is part of a joint project to develop a Baltic peacekeeping battalion. That battalion will be the contribution of the Baltic States to the strengthening of United Nations peacekeeping capacities. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the Governments that have contributed to this common Baltic project. 23 During the past year Estonia has taken further steps towards the implementation and follow-up of the major United Nations Conferences — Rio, Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen, Beijing and Istanbul. To this end, a special inter-ministerial commission has been established in Estonia. Since the critical areas of concern of many of the conferences overlap, we are also looking forward to a better coordination of their outcomes. Last year important work was done by the Preparatory Committee on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court in elaborating the text of a statute for such a court. We welcome that work and look forward to further progress during the fifty-first session. Failure to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms is a major cause of conflict. Many intra-State conflicts arise from the denial of basic human rights. The Vienna World Conference on Human Rights made it clear that the promotion and protection of all human rights is a duty for all States. Estonia reaffirms its continued commitment to human rights. In spite of the hardships of institutional and economic transition, we have been able to make democracy a way of life. Human rights for all residents of Estonia is an inextricable part of Estonian democracy. We continue to place particular importance upon the work of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mr. José Ayala Lasso, the Centre for Human Rights and United Nations human rights machinery in general. A transparent functioning of this machinery should rely on impartial reporting and disregard politically motivated allegations. Failure to do so would seriously damage the credibility of the Organization. Owing to very recent memories, this issue is of special importance to Estonia. This is also one of the reasons why Estonia lists among its priorities issues regarding indigenous peoples and human rights. Estonia believes that it is essential to secure adequate financing for the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights. At the same time, we would like to point out that various regional organizations that focus on human rights issue periodic reports regarding such matters. In order to avoid duplication and to make effective use of resources, the United Nations human rights machinery should rely on the extensive expertise of regional organizations, including the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe. Those two organizations foster the basic foundations of security and stability in Europe. The United Nations should further enhance its ties with them, especially with the Council of Europe, the established stronghold of human rights on the European continent and a symbol of cooperation between nations striving for an open and mutually beneficial dialogue. Estonia, the current Chairman of the Council of Europe, is pursuing policies of positive engagement in relations with all countries, including our eastern neighbour. In this respect, it is our sincere hope that the Russian Federation will reciprocate our efforts. In conclusion, let me underline our commitment to contribute, together with all Member States, to the establishment of a world community in which individuals and States may live in peace and understanding. Let me express our sincere hope for a better world. ﻿Like the speakers who have preceded me at this rostrum, I wish to extend to you, Sir, the warm and sincere congratulations of the delegation of Benin to the President on his unanimous selection to preside over the work of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. This choice constitutes clear recognition of his exceptional personal qualities and his wealth of experience as a seasoned diplomat, and it is a collective tribute to his beautiful country, Malaysia, whose dynamism and outstanding economic success over the past few years I salute. From the rostrum of this Assembly, I should like to make a contribution to this important session by expressing a message of peace, solidarity, faith and hope from the people and the Government of Benin. A year ago, in this very Hall, in commemoration of its fiftieth anniversary, the United Nations hosted the greatest gathering of Heads of State in history. In this setting they carried out a critical, objective and unsparing assessment of the 50 years of the Organization’s existence, a period during which international cooperation made it possible to achieve significant progress on each of the principles enshrined in the Charter. In the Declaration they adopted, the Heads of State and Government solemnly reaffirmed their dedication to the great ideals of peace, development and democracy inscribed in the founding texts of the Organization. Given this commitment by world leaders on the threshold of a new millennium, the imperative of peace must, more than ever, remain the ultimate goal of the international community as a whole. This is all the more urgent because, despite the end of the cold war, the peace and security of nations seem far from being fully assured. Indeed, in many respects, on the political and security level the international situation remains worrying, especially on the African continent, where the course of history too often bears the imprint of tragic events to which the international community cannot remain indifferent. The resurgence of conflicts which, for the most part, no longer take place between States but within nations, is a challenge for which the Organization must adopt new methods and machinery for intervention and settlement. This means, therefore, that to be able to promote harmonious relations among the peoples of the world and to guarantee a lasting peace, our shared Organization must strengthen its capabilities and its means in conflict prevention, peacekeeping and the consolidation of peace. It cannot be stressed enough that, despite the difficulties, inadequacies and gaps that reduce or restrict the scope and effectiveness of its actions, the United Nations represents, embodies and remains — today and, doubtless, for a long time to come — the body that can best express and bring to a successful conclusion the will of Member States to work for the consolidation of peace and the pursuit of economic and social progress. Despite the new international situation that promotes less aggressive, less suspicious and less tense relations between States, the political instability that continues to exist in certain parts of Africa, and the conflicts that develop there, have become significant barriers to the economic recovery and social cohesion of the continent. In this context, I wish to refer to the very worrying situation in Burundi, where the unjust system of socio- ethnic relations, military intransigence and political intolerance pointlessly prolong the suffering and division of a people. It is deplorable that on 25 July 1996 a 13 military coup ended, by force, Burundi’s constitutional, democratic and legal institutions. My country, Benin, welcomes the strong and courageous reaction of the countries of the subregion and encourages their efforts for a peaceful, just and lasting settlement of the crisis in Burundi. Benin supports the efforts of the Heads of State of countries of the Great Lakes region and of the Organization of African Unity to make the new authorities in Burundi quickly embark on negotiations and abide by decisions which should result from constructive and sound concerted action on the part of the healthy forces of this battered people. The various protagonists must understand that only a new political agreement, based on ordinary common sense, with respect for the intangible principles of democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, will contribute to an acceptable solution to all. Regarding the situation in Liberia, the summit meeting of the Committee of Nine on Liberia of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), held on 17 August 1996, took important decisions to extend the Abuja Agreements of 1995, which are rightly considered to be the appropriate legal framework for a definitive settlement of the conflict. This last Abuja summit also drew up a new timetable for the implementation of the peace process, and defined the modalities and stages to lead to democratic elections. Benin urgently demands that the Liberian factions take advantage of this last opportunity and strictly abide by the Abuja decisions, in order to speed up the return of their country to normality. My country also invites the international community to support the efforts of ECOWAS by stepping up its financial and logistical assistance for the successful implementation of the Abuja decisions. The most important thing for a nation in crisis is the search for compromise to settle internal contradictions, no matter how serious they are. This truth has been tried and tested elsewhere, in Mozambique for example, and recently in Angola, the results of which we note with satisfaction. Hence the appeal which I am renewing here, before this Assembly, for sincere dialogue in Rwanda, Somalia, the Sudan, Sierra Leone, the Middle East — in a word, wherever passions continue at the end of the twentieth century to cloud reason and block the genuine struggle for development and democracy. Everyone agrees that peace, if it is to be genuine and lasting, must be based on general and complete disarmament under international control. Here, I should like to say how gratified Benin is at the signature of the Pelindaba Treaty for the establishment of an African nuclear-weapon-free zone. The Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), held from 17 April to 12 May 1995, decided to renew the Treaty indefinitely, thus opening the way to better prospects in the area of nuclear disarmament. Benin, which has worked for this, believes in the strengthening of the provisions of the Treaty, in particular regarding the verification regime, in order to make it a genuine international instrument for effective nuclear disarmament and a solid basis for more fruitful international cooperation in the area of the use of nuclear technology for peaceful purposes. While the commitment to non-proliferation and disarmament has been gaining ground throughout the globe, the resumption or continuation of nuclear tests painfully reminded us of the dangers and horrors which haunted the collective psyche of nations during the cold- war period. This is why Benin can only welcome the positive decision taken by France and recently by the People’s Republic of China to put an end to their nuclear testing programmes. The signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty during the present session will most certainly mark a major stage in the achievement of an objective which is decisive, even vital, for the international community: that of disarmament and non-proliferation. As we can read in the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, 14 “action to ensure peace, security and stability in the world will be futile unless the economic and social needs of people are addressed.” (resolution 50/6, para. 1) This means that peace comes to nothing if the imperative of development is not guaranteed. Here, it is important to emphasize that many countries in Africa have made considerable progress in the key areas of protecting mothers and their children, of health, of nutrition and of education, but, from one end of the continent to the other, gains continue to be drastically limited as a result of endemic poverty and economic regression. Recent developments in the global economy and the serious obstacles encountered by the efforts of the developing countries, particularly the least-developed countries, are a cause of profound concern for us as Africans. The accelerated globalization of the rules and practices of the system of market economies has led to the emergence of a new economic order within which Africa, for the most part, remains marginalized. The agreements of the Uruguay Round concluded in 1994, the rapid redefinition of economic groupings in the developed countries, and the ever more important role of private capital in the world economy, have created a new international environment in which the interests of Africa do not seem to have been taken into account, or in which they are even threatened or compromised. While it is true that socio-economic development in Africa is first of all the responsibility of the peoples and Governments of the African countries themselves, it none the less remains true that the international community, in particular its most developed and industrialized members, must do their part, a part commensurate with their true means, in the development process of a continent involved in a dual economic and political transition. At a time when one has reason to fear the resurgence of national selfishness, the temptations of protectionism and of isolationism, the international community should provide a clear response, a concrete solution that can be rapidly applied to the problems experienced by the developing world, in particular Africa. These well-known problems include the burden of foreign debt, the alarming reduction in capital flows, the trend toward a decline in official development assistance, the weak rate of investment, the continued imbalance in the terms of trade — despite the devaluation of the CFA Franc in January 1994 — protectionism on export markets, continued weak commodities prices, and so on. We have every right to be pleased that over the last five years, the struggle to eradicate poverty has been a prominent issue in negotiations and the drafting of declarations and programmes of action adopted by summits and conferences organized under the auspices of the United Nations. As we approach the end of the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty and the beginning next year, 1997, of the United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty, new national and international efforts must be made to mobilize the vast resources needed to eliminate poverty. In addition, as the decisions and recommendations of the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) are implemented, they will be tangible assets for present and future generations in the process of building a more human and better society through exercise of the right to adequate housing for all. Environmental protection is essential if we are to promote sustainable development. Faced with the threat to mankind posed by the rise in sea levels, global warming, creeping desertification and the disappearance of biological diversity, Benin attaches the utmost importance to implementation of all the agreements reached in Rio and, here, renews its commitment to doing all it can to ensure the success of the special session of the General Assembly planned for June 1997 to strengthen implementation of the decisions and recommendations of the Earth Summit contained in Agenda 21. In accordance with the commitments made at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in June 1992 in Rio, by the end of the year Benin will have adopted its own national Agenda 21 and, at the same time, will begin drawing up local Agendas 21. In the context of the effective implementation of the provisions of the United Nations Convention to Control Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa, the Government of Benin held a national forum from 20 to 22 August 1996 which was the starting point for the process of drawing up its national programme of action to combat desertification through a partnership of Government, local populations, non-governmental 15 organizations, development associations, the private sector and development partners. I should like to take this opportunity to thank the interim secretariat of the Convention and, above all, the Government of Germany and the United Nations Development Programme, whose technical and financial support proved decisive in the holding of this successful forum. It is regrettable that five years after it was launched, the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s has not had the expected impact on the development of Africa even though the priorities our States opted for were largely in line with its objectives, including in the area of democratic and macroeconomic reforms. This is why Benin welcomes the launching by the Secretary-General on 15 March 1996 of the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa, an initiative that complements the New Agenda and provides it with new impetus. I should like here to reaffirm Benin’s adherence to this Initiative whose objectives fit perfectly with those of our national development plans. Implementation of the priority actions of the Initiative require the mobilization of Africans themselves, bodies of the United Nations system and Africa’s development partners to ensure ambitious, concerted and coordinated action designed to lead to tangible results in Africa. We applaud the initiatives of the United Nations system which has long been working for the development of Africa, as well as the actions of all partners for the development of Africa, including France and Japan, which have made the development and economic recovery of Africa a priority. We appeal to all Member States diligently to implement the results of the mid-term review of United Nations New Agenda in order to accelerate the process of strengthening the effective integration of Africa into the international trading system, help Africa diversify its economy and encourage direct foreign investment. Along the same lines, The Agenda for Development, which Benin actively helped to draft, should be effectively implemented to achieve the development objectives of developing countries, the least-developed countries in particular. Massive and persistent human rights violations are today both source and consequence of ethnic, racial and religious tensions which continue to persist in certain parts of the globe, particularly on our continent, Africa. The Government of Benin considers that all States, whatever their political system, their economic level and their culture, have a duty to promote, protect and respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. In this regard, Benin reaffirms its deep commitment to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, whose promotion and protection are a legitimate concern of the international community. For our part, we in Benin have continued to strive to consolidate our new democratic experience which has been in place since the historic National Conference of Active Forces of the Nation in February 1990. I know that all members have been following with interest, and are well informed about, the deep-seated qualitative changes in the political life of Benin and I wish to take advantage of this opportunity to thank everyone for the genuine interest with which they have followed our major political event: the recent presidential election in March 1996, in which we could see a peaceful and orderly democratic transfer of power, without violence or bloodshed, which was totally in keeping with the rule of constitutional law in force since December 1990. The generally correct and normal conduct of the ballot, the peaceful behaviour of the vast majority of our political classes, the courageous and responsible attitude of the people of Benin and the unwavering stance taken continually by the Constitutional Court are all signs which demonstrate genuine political maturity and an irrevocable commitment to building a truly democratic society in the Republic of Benin. To complete its programme of building a State based on the rule of law and a prosperous nation in which all citizens of Benin would enjoy a certain minimum standard of living, the Government of Benin wishes to benefit further from the support and assistance of the entire international community. We are well aware of the fact that merely going through the motions of an election is not enough to install and guarantee lasting democracy in a country. For democracy to have real meaning and for a people to fully enjoy the freedom and salvation it brings, it must be expressed both on the national and international levels. This means that democracy must also underlie and govern the organization and conduct of international relations. The world, so long divided by East-West antagonism and by North-South imbalances, 16 can and must conceive and implement new, democratic relations among States. Here it is no exaggeration to say that the renewal of the United Nations begun thanks to the courageous, tenacious and fruitful actions of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali must be resolutely sustained and developed to guarantee the conditions necessary for the harmonious pursuit of the process of democratization in international society on the eve of the twenty-first century. The delegation of Benin is convinced that our present deliberations on all issues of reform of the Organization will be guided by our shared determination to take concerted, specific and realistic measures which, better than in the past, respond to the great stakes and challenges emerging on the horizon of the twenty-first century. ﻿The Dominican Republic was among the countries that founded the United Nations. But this is only the third time, in 51 years, that its Head of State has come to address the General Assembly. Perhaps the reason for this noticeable absence of our country during the many years that this great annual event has been held is that following the Second World War, the international system revolved around super-Power rivalry, giving rise to the cold war. In context, it is probable that our leaders felt that their presence here would have been merely symbolic, with no real importance. That this may have been the case in the past, but the world has changed. From the dramatic transformations in the geopolitical environment, a multi-polar international system has emerged, in which the economy matters more than ideologies and military conflicts. This reorganization of the international system on the basis of strategic economic objectives has been accompanied by a scientific and technological revolution, a revolution of knowledge that spread across the planet and brought about the most profound change ever experienced in the history of humankind, turning the world into one large neighbourhood. In the new international order that arose following the cold war, the Dominican Republic could not remain isolated. That is why we are here today: to proclaim to the world that the Dominican Republic is now actively joining the group of nations represented in this multilateral Organization, so that, through international contacts and exchange, it can contribute to forging a better future for humanity and, accordingly, a more promising future for Dominicans. To ensure our participation in the various forums of the United Nations forums, exercising all the rights that have been bestowed upon us, we proceeded, first, to pay our financial debts in full. To the Dominican Republic, the payment of our arrears is evidence of our confidence and faith in the capability of the United Nations to play a role in the international arena to guarantee international peace and security as well as respect for human dignity and fundamental human rights. Nevertheless, just as we understand that the world has changed, that there is a new international agenda governed by the common concerns of all peoples over environment preservation, population growth, respect for human rights, strengthening of democratic systems, recognition of women’s rights, and the social and economic development of nations, we also understand that this Organization must be renewed and readapted to the new world circumstances. Latin America and Africa do not have permanent representatives on the Security Council, and Asia has only one. This means that there is uneven representation in that important body, which is incomprehensible in an Organization whose Members enjoy equal footing, on the principle that they are all sovereign States. It is our humble suggestion that the Security Council should be extended to enable Asia, Africa and Latin America to have two permanent seats on that body and that the number of non-permanent representatives be increased to democratize the decision-making machinery in that forum for peace. In one of his most frequently-cited works on the Caribbean, entitled El Caribe, Frontera Imperial, the former Dominican President and author, Juan Bosch, wrote as follows: “The history of the Caribbean is the history of the struggle of empires against the peoples of the region in order to rob them of their rich lands. It is also the history of the struggle of empires against one another to rob the possessions each one had conquered. Lastly, it is the history of the peoples of the Caribbean to free themselves from their imperial masters.” This direct contact with the major Powers over the course of five centuries, a product of these confrontations, 5 has marked the Caribbean, perhaps forever, with a particular stamp of fragmented histories, and different cultures and languages. Yet we are always seeking unity within diversity. Recent years have brought greater understanding and closer bonds between us, based on the understanding that we have a common destiny. As proof of this, our country is a founding member of the Association of Caribbean States (ACS), an organization bringing together nations that are very different both in ethnic terms and in development levels, and thus reflecting the richness and variety of our region. We would be pleased to see formal contact with and backing from the United Nations for that recently created body, in support of the efforts we have made to strengthen our relations and to work for our peoples’ development. Similarly, we have been participating in the Caribbean Forum of African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States, which is made up of Caribbean countries that benefit from the Fourth Lomé Convention. This forum has carried out a series of regional projects financed with European Union resources. As an observer, and aspiring full-fledged member, of the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM), we view with great interest the widening and deepening relationship between the United Nations and CARICOM. We urge that the necessary steps are be taken to intensify the cooperation and coordination between the two institutions, which would enable us to achieve our common goals. The countries of the Caribbean are facing the challenges of current circumstances, as the advantages of access to markets are being eroded because of the implementation of World Trade Organization agreements, the effects of a single European market, the consolidation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the movement towards reciprocity and similar trends. Our participation in preferential access schemes depends on the observance of established standards with regard to workers’ rights, human rights, intellectual property rights, the environment and civil liberty — matters that go beyond economic considerations. We have gained certain advantages from preferential trading with the United States and the European Union, as a result of greater prosperity that led to an increase in import demand from those countries and an increase in tourism in the Caribbean. By contrast, we must endure the complications of the new rules and harmonization standards that have come into force. We have not yet taken full advantage of the benefits deriving from such concessional agreements as the Fourth Lomé Convention, the Generalized System of Preferences, and the Caribbean Basin initiative. Our high dependence on foreign trade, the shortage in the supply of goods and services and unsuitable marketing methods constitute elements of vulnerability that affect, to a greater or lesser extent, all the countries of the region. We must overcome these limitations and define areas in which we can be competitive. Strengthening cooperation is one way to support the Caribbean integration process and rectify such weaknesses. When referring to the Caribbean, let us not forget the situation in Haiti, the country with which we share the island of Hispaniola. We view with sympathy the process of democratization that is unfolding in that country, and we appeal to the international community to do its utmost to assist in the huge task faced by the children of the country of Toussaint L’Ouverture in constructing a better future for their countrymen. One of the first foreign-policy actions of our Government was to encourage a cooperative and friendly relationship between the Dominican Republic and Haiti, and we put in place the Joint Bilateral Commission. After a fruitful meeting, which took place a few day ago in Port-au-Prince, that Commission agreed to a series of technical exchange agreements in the fields of tourism, agriculture, trade and investment, sports and border and immigration matters. Furthermore, we defined the conditions for joint strategies to take advantage of funds provided by multinational sources, such as those granted by the European Union under the terms of the Fourth Lomé Convention. I would now like to direct the attention of the General Assembly to a subject that just a few years ago was on the front pages of all the newspapers of the world and that, even though it still has a considerable impact on the effectiveness of development policies, has vanished from the world’s attention: the problem of foreign debt. The countries of the region have carried out a series of adjustment programmes in an attempt to regain external financial solvency. Nonetheless, there are still considerable imbalances as a result of the burden of debt 6 servicing, without a corresponding recovery in the terms of exchange that would allow us to create greater resources through our exports. In the case of the Dominican Republic, foreign debt increased 13-fold between 1964 and 1994. Today, thanks to our extraordinary efforts, our country is now current with its international creditors, which means that we are eligible for further external financing. However, being current with our payments to international credit organizations has meant that our Government has incurred greater social debts to the Dominican people. There are fewer resources to invest in education, health, housing and social security and, ultimately, to deal with the critical situation of poverty that affects most of our people. In its 51 years of existence, the United Nations has made extraordinary efforts to eradicate bellicose conflicts in different parts of the world and to contribute to the maintenance of peace and international security. But great human sacrifice is inherent in the theatre of war, and our impoverished neighbourhoods have adopted the names of war-torn places, symbolizing the extent of their fight against misery. In the Dominican Republic the poor and marginalized neighbourhoods have adopted such names as Viet Nam, Katanga and Cambodia; none of them, of course, is called Sweden, Japan or Germany. This means that this international Organization’s new role is to guarantee international peace and security through mechanisms to promote the economic and social development of the less fortunate nations. For this reason, with respect to debt, our country believes that multilateral organizations that provide development assistance and the donor Governments, together with the debtors, must find more lasting solutions to the burden of foreign debt servicing, so that we can release resources that can immediately be used to fight poverty and to stop the deterioration of the environment. We have made progress in that regard, and it is fair to recognize that the G-7, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the regional banks for development assistance, such as the Inter-American Development Bank, have consistently designed and implemented important mechanisms to alleviate the foreign-debt burden, among which the so-called Brady plan and the G-7 programmes for the reduction of bilateral debt stand out. However, in the near future we will need to review some of the sacred principles prevalent in the international financial community now for many years, such as those related to the Paris Club cut-off date and the impossibility of debt restructuring with multilateral organizations. This affects especially the so-called least developed countries, which could receive preferential treatment in this regard. The Dominican Republic therefore urges all interested parties to move forward to enable the underdeveloped countries to implement viable programmes against poverty and marginalization, within a financially sustainable context. In addition to the fight against poverty, at this stage of reforming the international system it is important to take all appropriate measures to fight terrorism and illegal drug trafficking, scourges that deeply affect the normal development of mankind. Recently, international drug cartels have tried to use Caribbean routes to carry out their illegal operations. The Dominican Republic has been taking all possible measures to prevent the use of its territory as a medium for drug trafficking and drug use. For Dominicans, drug use and trafficking are a national security problem, which we will fight with the necessary force to eliminate an evil that has become the great plague of mankind at the end of the twentieth century. In expressing its willingness to play a more active role in the international system, the Dominican Republic also expresses its concern at the many unresolved conflicts in different parts of the world. We advocate a definitive and peaceful resolution of the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina; of the search for peace in Middle East between the Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization; of cooperation and assistance with regard to situations such as those of Somalia, Burundi and Liberia. As to the Republic of China on Taiwan, we believe that due to its location in the centre of East Asia, its security and stability bear a close relation with the peace and prosperity of that region, and we therefore encourage both the sides along the Taiwan Strait to resume constructive dialogue with a view to achieving mutual cooperation and understanding. We believe that the parallel participation of both sides in the United Nations would be conducive to maintaining peace. We stand at the threshold of a new century and a new millennium, which will bring new challenges as well as new opportunities for human progress, and an Organization such as the United Nations has always served to stimulate the noblest of human aspirations. The Dominican Republic, trusting in God and in the creative capacity of its people, aspires to be a spokesman and an instrument for channelling the ideals of justice, peace, 7 democracy and prosperity, which inspire the civilized nations of the world. ﻿At the outset I would like, on behalf of my country, to congratulate the President sincerely, and the friendly country of Malaysia, on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. His competence and profound knowledge of international affairs will clearly contribute to the achievement of the expected results of the session. I should like to take this opportunity to assure him that the delegation of the Kingdom of Morocco will provide its full support and assistance in order to achieve those results. I would also like to express my deep appreciation to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral for the wisdom with which he guided the proceedings of the fiftieth session and for his commendable efforts in connection with the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. Although the cold war ended a few years ago, and despite the hopes of the peoples of the world that a new international era would dawn in which they could reap the benefits and dividends of peace and take part on an equal footing in the guidance and management of international affairs in order to preserve their ideals, values and interests, we note that the current world situation is characterized by instability and confusion and is far from reflecting the order we so hoped to achieve. Indeed, far from bringing peace, security and justice, the end of the cold war spawned a situation in which local crises have brought suffering to millions of people in several regions of the world, severely stirring our global conscience. These crises have also highlighted the inability of the international community to devise effective mechanisms to resolve such conflicts in an equitable way and to put an end to the tragedies they engender. Morocco believes that the Secretary-General’s initiative for restructuring the United Nations and strengthening its role falls precisely within this perspective and can prepare the Organization to deal with the effects of these conflicts through preventive diplomacy, the development and reform of United Nations bodies, and coordination between the United Nations and other international and regional organizations. We are, moreover, convinced that the re-election of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali to a second term as Secretary-General would be the best guarantee for the continuation of those reforms. The Secretary-General’s experience, competence, 15 courage and spirit of initiative in settling international conflicts and reactivating international cooperation in various fields, make him the best choice to guide the affairs of the Organization during a second mandate. Morocco also hopes that any controversy on the subject will be avoided in order to forestall adverse repercussions on the work of this session and on the future of the Organization. The commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization provided an opportunity for the numerous Heads of State who attended the celebration to express concerns and apprehensions regarding the challenges confronting us. They issued a Declaration that contained their proposals and recommendations for meeting those challenges and devising effective mechanisms to promote closer relations among countries. In our view, this session provides us an opportunity to reflect on those recommendations and proposals and to find answers to the questions raised by the Heads of State regarding the fundamental and structural reforms of the United Nations. With regard to the Security Council and its prerogatives in discharging its mandate to maintain international peace and security, we believe that any initiative aimed at expanding the membership of the Security Council and improving its modes of action would require much thought and circumspection. It must take into account current realities if any final decision in this regard is to lead to the desired reform and thereby guarantee equitable representation of all continents. The aim here is to ensure the Council’s efficiency and credibility and to enhance its ability to cope with any violation of international law without impinging on the prerogatives and role of the General Assembly. However, any reform that does not take into account the current financial difficulties of the Organization clearly cannot produce the expected results. It will be extremely difficult for the United Nations to fulfil its mission without a stable financial base. Hence the need for all Member States to pay their contributions, settle their arrears and thereby give concrete substance to their collective and continued support for the efforts of the Organization. In the field of disarmament, many important steps have been taken in the control of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons. Following the establishment of nuclear-free zones in Latin America and the South Pacific and the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the African countries signed a Treaty making Africa a nuclear-free continent. In addition to these achievements, we hope to see the Middle East also become a zone free of weapons of mass destruction and of nuclear weapons in particular. Moreover, following the success of the efforts to produce the final version, the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty will be open for signature tomorrow. Morocco, which made an important contribution to the drafting of the Treaty, is convinced that this document will open the way for the complete elimination of nuclear weapons, strengthen international cooperation and promote the exchange of knowledge about the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, so that developing countries can achieve their economic and technical goals. Morocco’s interest in this subject is predicated on its acute awareness of the risks involved and that arms control is the cornerstone of any initiative aimed at firmly establishing the basis for international peace and security throughout the world. Humanity can be sheltered from the tragedy of massively destructive wars only through the full and complete elimination of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons under effective international control. Last year, I told this Assembly that the efforts of the Kingdom of Morocco to achieve territorial integrity had gone through a series of phases unique in the history of the independence of nations. The time has come for Morocco to recover all its territories. Being fully committed to peace and to the settlement of problems through dialogue, and having continually defended this principle in international forums as a means for resolving problems between nations, Morocco is convinced that the return of the cities of Ceuta and Melilla and of the neighbouring islands still under Spanish occupation can only occur through those same means. This is particularly true given the common interests and the well-established and good-neighbourly relations existing between Morocco and Spain. This is, moreover, precisely what His Majesty King Hassan II took the initiative to underscore when he called for the establishment of a Moroccan-Spanish think tank definitively to resolve this question. Accordingly, the final, complete solution we are advocating is one which preserves Moroccan sovereignty on the territories it holds, while guaranteeing Spanish interests. This would further consolidate the dynamics of the diverse and close cooperation between the northern and southern shores of the Mediterranean. We are also convinced that our age-old relations with neighbouring 16 Spain will be instrumental in finding a permanent solution to this question. The developments in the Middle East over the past few years opened prospects of tolerance and coexistence for the peoples of the region, instead of dissension and fighting. We view the progress that has been made as an auspicious sign in that regard, starting with the Madrid Conference and the Oslo agreements and progressing to the Palestinian-Israeli agreement and the Jordanian-Israeli agreement. Morocco has contributed to giving life to the concept of peace in the region, and has made tireless efforts to establish a comprehensive, just and lasting peace that would guarantee the return of all occupied Arab territories, including Al-Quds al-Sharif, the occupied Syrian Golan Heights and southern Lebanon in keeping with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978) and the principle of land for peace. We therefore regret the interruption of the peace process, which threatens to destroy all the efforts we have made to establish security and stability in the region. We have the right to wonder whether the principles and commitments agreed upon at the Madrid Conference, which provided the groundwork for the process towards establishing a just and comprehensive peace in the region, have become outdated, not to say null and void. Has the new Israeli Government, which seeks to cast doubt on those principles and commitments, realized the disastrous consequences of such a course of action, which could take the region and its peoples back to a situation we thought was behind us thanks to an irreversible commitment and a new perception of the region’s future? We believe in peace and are dedicated to its defence and maintenance as an irreversible option and goal. My country has contributed to this mission of its own free will and in good faith. Similarly, we have on many occasions pointed out that genuine security for all the countries of the region can be achieved only through the establishment of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace which guarantees the rights of all parties in the region. In this respect, we call for scrupulous and unequivocal commitment, with no delays, to all that has been agreed upon, in order to implement the agreements reached according to the scheduled phases of the peace process. We also call for removing the obstacles impeding the bilateral Arab-Israeli negotiations so that we may keep abreast of the substantial progress made in the multilateral peace process in order to achieve the desired final solution. The blockade imposed on the Palestinian territories, which hinders even the delivery of international assistance to the Palestinian people, makes it particularly difficult for the Palestinian Authority to discharge its obligations to its people, who are living in extremely difficult conditions. In addition, the colonization policy applied by Israel and the changes it is introducing in the old part of the city of Al-Quds and neighbouring areas constitute a violation of the United Nations resolutions, principles and commitments to which I referred earlier. In this respect, we call for a lifting of this blockade and for providing full material support and assistance to the Palestinian Authority, in accordance with the decisions taken by the international community, so that the Authority can discharge its mission in the best possible conditions and launch the process of the economic development of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip in order to enable the Palestinian people to establish their independent State, with Al-Quds as its capital, and to contribute, on equal footing, to the progress, cooperation and prosperity of the region. The Gulf crisis has long cast a dark shadow on the region and created crisis conditions. We have repeatedly called for transcending these conditions through the implementation of internationally binding resolutions within the framework of ensuring the security and stability of the region and preserving the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the countries of the region. We are convinced that this situation cannot continue indefinitely. The prospects for an easing of the crisis are beginning to emerge, based on the progress made in the implementation of Security Council resolutions, and the understanding reached by Iraq and the United Nations on the implementation of resolution 986 (1995), known as the oil-for-food resolution. We regret the latest developments in the Gulf region, which are likely to once again plunge that area into a spiral of instability and postpone the implementation of that resolution. As we call for restraint and calm in order to avoid any escalation, we reaffirm the need to respect Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and to implement Security Council resolution 986 (1995), in order to alleviate the hardships of the Iraqi people, who are still suffering from the embargo which has been imposed on them for the last six years. 17 The problem of the United Arab Emirate islands of the Greater and the Lesser Tunbs and Abu Musa has not yet been resolved. Given the relationship of kinship and brotherhood between us and the United Arab Emirates, and given our historic and brotherly relations with Iran, we call upon the two neighbouring countries to find a definitive solution to this crisis on the basis of respect for the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates over its islands and respect for its territorial integrity, in keeping with the relations of neighbourliness and the traditional ties existing between the two countries. These ties should be exploited to the benefit of the peoples of the Emirates and Iran and to achieve stability in the region. Morocco attaches special importance to the conflict between Libya and certain Western countries because of its repercussions on international and regional relations. In this connection, we regretfully note the implications of the measures imposed on Libya and their extensive damaging effects on the Libyan people and on the economies of neighbouring countries. The continuation of this situation has been a source of concern. Morocco, which is interested in seeing this problem settled amicably, calls for a favourable response to the initiatives and efforts made by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Arab League, the Non-Aligned Movement and the Organization of the Islamic Conference to find a solution to this crisis. The world has followed with very keen interest the international efforts aimed at restoring peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These efforts have rekindled hope and provided an opportunity to put an end to the conflict in the region and to the crimes against humanity that have claimed tens of thousands of Bosnian lives. Morocco fully supports the Bosnian people and their just cause, including the preservation of their sovereignty, territorial integrity and identity, and has never hesitated, in its current capacity as Chairman of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, to shoulder its responsibilities to help the Bosnian people overcome their ordeal. Thus, we worked to set up a coordination mechanism between the Islamic Contact Group and the International Contact Group, which contributed to bringing about the official signing, at the Paris Conference, of the Dayton Agreement, which aims at putting an end to the bloodshed in the region, finding a comprehensive, just and lasting solution, instilling respect for international legality, and contributing to stability in the region. My country has also met its international obligations through its participation in the Implementation Force, thereby contributing to the establishment of security and stability in that region. We are gratified to note the substantial progress made in the implementation of the military aspects of the Dayton Agreement and the launching of the construction of political institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We hope that the legislative elections held recently will constitute yet another constructive step towards preserving the territorial integrity and political unity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and achieving harmony and concord among the country’s various constituents in order to secure its stability and development. The current world economic situation clearly reveals the wide gap between developed and developing countries, as well as the increasing marginalization of the latter in the international economic arena. This unbalanced situation threatens to lead to conflicts among countries arising out of economic and development considerations and could thus adversely affect world stability. Given the staggering increase in external debt and its negative repercussions on the economies of the developing countries, there is an urgent need today to find adequate solutions to this situation, which is mortgaging the future of the developing countries. Such solutions can be achieved only through the creation of conditions more conducive to increasing equal opportunities among the countries of the world and a genuine partnership that can pave the way towards the achievement of balanced and lasting development. In this context, we once again welcome the initiative of the United Nations Secretary-General in the “Agenda for Development”. We hope that it will lead to positive results, redress the imbalance and help to achieve the economic development sought by the developing countries. The changes affecting the international economic scene following the crystallization of the concept of economic globalization and the liberalization of trade- mandate corrective measures require that the existing disproportion be corrected, particularly since the behaviour of certain developed countries in trade liberalization is still marked by a selective approach. Moreover, protectionist measures and the institution of covert barriers in the guise of various environmental and other considerations are inconsistent with the desirable policy of liberalization of international trade. 18 We hope that the task of redressing these imbalances will feature prominently among the concerns of the World Trade Organization in the near future and that a balance may be struck between freedom of trade and development requirements. If a solution is to be found, the role of international financial institutions must be extensively reassessed in view of the deep changes affecting the international scene. Accordingly, we call for the implementation of the provisions of World Trade Organization agreements and for careful thought to be given to defining the concepts of globalization that now determine the very future of nations, peoples and, indeed, entire continents. This could be done by means of financial and economic transactions designed to close the gap between countries and to overcome the marginalization from which many of them suffer, particularly in Africa. We keenly hope that the meeting of the World Trade Organization at Singapore in December will provide an opportunity to assess the situation and to enter into a more careful consideration of the consistency of economic, financial and monetary policies, for which Morocco has been calling for some time. The deterioration in the situation on the African continent is most certainly at the forefront of issues demanding a joint effort on the part of the international community. Effective and practical solutions must be found for the serious economic, social and humanitarian problems facing African States, which have been compounded by tragedies such as civil war, the spread of epidemics and deadly diseases, desertification, refugee problems and all they entail. Morocco, as a country on the African continent that enjoys deep-rooted historical and other ties with other African States, takes a keen interest in the continent’s problems. Bearing in mind those ancient ties and our special political relations, my country has contributed, within the means available to it, to the development of Africa through the establishment of bilateral cultural and technical cooperation with the States of the continent. Morocco will therefore spare no effort to develop and consolidate bilateral cooperation with African States to help the African continent overcome its problems and emerge from marginalization. During the Marrakesh Ministerial Meeting of the Uruguay Round in 1994, His Majesty King Hassan II was the first to call for the introduction of a “Marshall Plan” for Africa and to stress the need for greater international efforts to help African States develop their economies and become integrated into the world economy. In this framework, we welcome the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa. In our opinion, we should do our utmost to help this Initiative succeed by ensuring that both the United Nations and the international community provide the necessary financial and technical support. With regard to what is known as the question of Western Sahara, I would like to affirm, as I have done many times before, Morocco’s commitment and unswerving willingness to implement the United Nations Settlement Plan which guarantees the right of all people from the Sahara to express their will through a referendum. It has now become clear to everyone that since the end of last year, the United Nations Plan has reached a deadlock. We hope that this stalemate will end as soon as possible so that the Settlement Plan can be carried out on the basis of a referendum. As the twenty-first century comes into view, the world hopes that tomorrow will bring a brighter future characterized by peace, cooperation and brotherhood among peoples. As we stand on the threshold of a new century, we need to strengthen the United Nations and consolidate its capabilities so that it can keep up with the changes taking place and respond to people’s desire for security, justice and development.  ﻿On behalf of Italy, I am pleased to express to you, Sir, my warmest congratulations on your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. Your extensive and widely recognized knowledge and experience of the activities and functions of the United Nations is the best guarantee of your success. At the same time, allow me to sincerely thank your predecessor, Professor Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, who so ably led the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. In addition, I should like to express our great appreciation for the inspiring role and constructive leadership of the United Nations provided by Secretary- General Boutros Boutros-Ghali. Italy shares and fully supports the statement made before the General Assembly on Tuesday by the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Ireland on behalf of the European Union. At the special commemorative meeting for the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, there was a solemn reaffirmation of the need for the United Nations to implement significant changes to keep step with the new global realities. Italy believes that the time has come to translate ideas into urgently needed reforms. Let me briefly address them. The General Assembly is the most representative expression of the values of our Organization. Therefore, we believe that the General Assembly must increasingly reflect the opinions of our peoples and become more democratic through direct links to the institutional realities 4 of its Member States. The Italian delegation to the General Assembly, for example, includes representatives of both the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies of our Parliament, which helps our political forces to have a fuller appreciation for the role and activities of the United Nations. We hope that this practice, which is also followed by certain other countries, becomes more widespread and consolidated. The General Assembly’s subsidiary bodies should be simplified, merging some committees while streamlining the agenda. Greater transparency is needed in relations between the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretariat. At the same time, we believe that the Secretariat should be restructured, so as to organize resources and functions around two focal points: on the one hand, peace and security; and on the other, democracy and development. In this context, Italy proposes that the three economic and social departments of the United Nations Secretariat should be merged into a single entity under the leadership of a Deputy Secretary-General, who would also act as the Executive Secretary of the Economic and Social Council. Italy is actively committed to Security Council reform and has presented a detailed proposal inspired by the fundamental principles of democracy, equitable geographical representation, efficiency and transparency. Reform should not lead to the establishment of new regimes of privilege, which would diminish rather than increase equitable representation on the Council. Last April, in his address before the General Assembly, the President of the Republic of Italy, Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, warned that stressing the elitist nature of the Council “could widen the gap and thus reduce the interest of the excluded, demeaning their political commitment in the process and perhaps marginalizing them and giving them the dangerous feeling that they are token presences, mere spectators.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 103rd meeting, p. 3-4) Our goal instead must be to stimulate a greater involvement of all countries, large and small, through a rotation mechanism. The Italian proposal would maintain a central role for the General Assembly. In fact, it would be up to the General Assembly to decide, on the basis of objective criteria, which countries could rotate more frequently. It would be up to the General Assembly to elect these countries, by a two-thirds majority and by secret ballot, in a truly democratic way. And it would be up to the General Assembly periodically to review the countries in question. The Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council has found it difficult to reach a consensus. Italy considers its proposal a balanced way of reconciling the new international realities, namely the emergence of countries with notable political and economic capacities — and I include Italy among them — and the rise in developing countries, a full 132 of which are Member States of the United Nations today. However, we are willing to discuss and adhere to a formula that is not inconsistent with the fundamental principles that govern our own proposal. A new generation of peace-keeping has begun. From its original role as a force of interposition, peace-keeping has gradually taken on the broader tasks of pacification, support for the process of national reconciliation, and today the protection of populations threatened by inter- ethnic conflicts. Italy believes that in confronting these tasks every Member State should responsibly consider making, and be prepared to make, larger and more qualified military contingents available to the United Nations. Italy is capable of doing its part, as demonstrated in Mozambique and in Bosnia. To make United Nations actions more effective in this field, Italy proposes the following 10 concrete measures which would be designed to: involve troop- contributing countries in the decision-making process; conduct annual reviews of the mission, mandate, and means of peace-keeping operations; have readily deployable military forces available as soon as Security Council decisions are made; create a reliable and unified command structure for peace-keeping operations; expand logistical support for peace-keeping operations; prioritize training programmes for peace-keeping personnel; improve the financing of peace-keeping operations; fill the gap between peace-keeping and post-conflict peace- building; entrust certain peace-keeping operations to regional organizations; and, finally, enhance cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU). To go into these points more at length, first of all we are glad that the Security Council, as suggested by Italy and other countries, has made it a regular practice to 5 hold consultations with troop-contributing countries before adopting decisions on peace-keeping operations. The next step is a formal mechanism that guarantees the participation of troop-contributing countries in the decision-making process. In this connection, Italy will lend its full support to the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister of Norway, Mrs. Brundtland, for an annual seminar to focus on the three M’s of peace-keeping: Mission, Mandate and Means. The United Nations must be ready to deal with conflicts where and when they break out, and to this end, it must be able to count on readily available military forces, as provided for by Article 43 of the Charter of the United Nations. We would also support the establishment, as suggested by Canada, of a headquarters module for peace- keeping at the United Nations Secretariat, whose composition should respect the principle of equitable geographical representation. Italy intends to promote specific proposals to expand logistical support, on the strength of its experience with the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the Implementation Force (IFOR). Already, we have made available the first United Nations logistic base in Brindisi, which should be further expanded to ensure efficient resource management for peace-keeping operations and we suggest a separate allocation in peace-keeping budgets for the creation of logistic bases. The training of peace-keeping personnel is the duty of the United Nations Staff College in Turin, which was created on the Secretary-General’s initiative. The College is receiving the maximum support of the Italian Government and will hopefully receive the support of other Member States as well. Financing of peace-keeping operations could be improved through a peace-keeping surcharge for new, frequently rotating Security Council members, as Italy has proposed. This would distribute the burden of the surcharge to a larger number of countries. Another essential component of peace-keeping is humanitarian assistance during and immediately after a conflict. Between the management of a conflict and post- conflict peace-building there is a gap. To fill just such a gap in Central America, Italy designed and funded the Development Progress for Displaced Persons, Refugees and Returnees (PRODERE) programme, which contributed substantially to the process of reconciliation. A model effort of the same type is now under way in Mozambique. Closer coordination with regional organizations could help provide the United Nations with the human and material resources it needs. Without detracting from the United Nations central role, certain peace-keeping and peace-enforcement operations should be entrusted to regional organizations or coalitions. A good example of this is the success of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in fulfilling the mandate it was given by the United Nations in the former Yugoslavia, where the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has also played an increasing and important role. Italy hopes for growing dialogue between the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations, and a strengthening of the peace-keeping capabilities of African countries. The OAU must be concretely helped to enhance its mechanism for conflict prevention and crisis management. In line with Italy’s traditional support for democratic development, we are planning a broad series of initiatives in Africa aimed at supporting parliamentary activities and strengthening judicial structures and training. The United Nations is a global system, and it pursues global objectives. Conflict prevention and the promotion of peaceful solutions to controversies cannot be pursued solely at the political and military level. The conditions for peace are found, perhaps primarily, in the economic, social and cultural development of peoples. Poverty, underdevelopment, and cultural isolation disrupt relations between countries and thus constitute threats to international peace. Through its funds, programmes, and specialized agencies, the United Nations plays a vital role in preventing these obstacles from jeopardizing peaceful coexistence. It helps restore the conditions for orderly global development after disruptions caused by internal and international conflicts. Italy appreciates the importance of both prevention and post-conflict reconstruction, and is determined to strengthen its collaboration with the United Nations specialized agencies. With this in mind Italy has chosen the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) as one of the main points of reference for the reconstruction of the city of Mostar. Collaboration with the cultural agency of the United Nations will also prove valuable in other areas of the former Yugoslavia on projects to reconstruct prestigious landmarks such as the Sarajevo library and historic buildings in Ragusa/ 6 Dubrovnik. The reform process also concerns the economic and social fields of the United Nations. The adoption of resolution 50/227 is a significant step forward, especially where it refers to strengthening the role of the Economic and Social Council. Special attention should be paid to the operative follow-up to this resolution. The identification of priorities by the United Nations, in accordance with changes in international reality, is essential to achieving greater efficiency to serve the best interests of the beneficiary countries, as well as those of the United Nations itself. During the last five years the United Nations has sponsored a series of global conferences to address systematically the key issues facing humanity today. The upcoming World Food Summit, which will take place in Rome from November 13-17 of this year, will close this important cycle. This summit will provide an opportunity to define new strategic objectives for international action in the field of food security in order to overcome structural shortages, especially in the nutrition sector, in many regions of our planet. In preparation, Italy is promoting a joint development initiative for Angola with the three agricultural agencies whose headquarters are in Rome. The process of economic globalization and the growing interdependence of markets offer enormous economic and social growth possibilities. From this perspective, the concept of global partnership provides for an equitable sharing of responsibilities. The Ministerial Meeting in Singapore is an excellent opportunity to focus on these issues, consolidating the process of trade liberalization sanctioned by the Uruguay Round and strengthening the regulatory role of the World Trade Organization (WTO). Italy is actively participating in the preparation of the 1997 special session of the United Nations General Assembly dedicated to the environment. While keeping in mind the results of the Rio Conference and foreseeable future scenarios for sustainable development, that session should update the instruments for action and continue to strive for implementation of Agenda 21. In 1996 significant achievements have been made in the field of disarmament. A major step on the road to nuclear disarmament has of course been taken with the signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. In the field of conventional weapons, an important agreement was reached in Florence last June on arms control in the former Yugoslavia. Our next goal should be a cut-off in the production of fissile material for military purposes. The Italian Government pledges to renounce once and for all the production and export of anti-personnel land-mines. We will also initiate the destruction of existing devices and promote further restrictions in the hope that such measures will contribute to reaching a solid international understanding and a definitive ban. To this end, we propose the prompt opening of international negotiations at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva. The fundamental role of law in the creation of a new world order must be upheld. National sovereignty has nothing to fear from the consolidation of international law. We believe that the cause of peace can only profit from the establishment of an international criminal court on violations of international humanitarian law and crimes against humanity. Italy is committed to this goal and is ready to host a diplomatic conference in 1998 to sanction the birth of such a court. Italy is also promoting a campaign for a worldwide moratorium on the application of the death penalty. The European Union has constantly emphasized that financial reform is essential to any modernizing of the United Nations structure, and we share the ideas expressed on this subject by the Irish presidency. We are convinced that financial reform is a prerequisite to the United Nations maintaining its crucial function in international relations. The role that United Nations Member States intend to play in pursuing the objectives of the Charter cannot be independent of their specific responsibility to honour their financial obligations. We firmly reiterate the validity of the specific proposal for financial reform presented by the European Union under Italy’s presidency during the first half of this year. A formidable task awaits us: to adapt our Organization to the needs and the challenges of the twenty-first century. Italy is prepared to spare no effort in the pursuit of our common goals.  ﻿Allow me first of all to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the post of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. General debates over a number of years have already clearly indicated that virtually all Member States consider it of vital importance to transform the United Nations into an Organization with enhanced potential in the service of peace and security in the world. Belarus advocates a pragmatic approach to the reform of the United Nations based on a realistic assessment of the Organization’s ability to enhance the practical efficiency of the entire United Nations system along the strategic lines of its activities. One of these is peacemaking, which in the aftermath of the cold war acquired new substance and quality. The New Testament reads, “Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called children of God.” (Matthew, 5:9) Today’s efforts by the United Nations to maintain peace are noble indeed. Belarus supports actions to further perfect peacekeeping operations as an important practical instrument at the disposal of the United Nations. 18 A crystal-clear understanding of peacekeeping operations as a specific means used in conflict settlement, aimed at maintaining peace rather than imposing it and at preventing highly explosive situations from emerging, is a sure guarantee that such operations will be successfully implemented. We note with satisfaction a substantive breakthrough in the peaceful settlement of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. Belarus emphasizes the key significance of restoring close economic, scientific and cultural ties between the States of the region for the normalization of the situation in the Balkans. That is why we support the idea of making the decision of lifting the economic and trade embargo against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia a permanent one. Belarus attaches great significance to the process of a peaceful settlement in the Middle East, based on respect for the right of all States of the region to live in peace within internationally recognized borders. As regards the ways and means to further perfect the Security Council’s activities, Belarus would like to emphasize the principle of balanced representation for all regional groups of Member States, in particular the Eastern European group, in a renewed and expanded Security Council. Given their particular significance, concerted international efforts in the field of disarmament are required in shaping the global security system that would befit the twenty-first century. We consider it a great privilege and honour that our practical actions and initiatives in this domain have been recognized and supported through the election of a representative of Belarus to the post of Chairman of the First Committee at the current session. This year has been marked by momentous events in Belarus. Very shortly the last nuclear missile will leave the territory of our Republic, thus making the entire territory of Central Europe, from the Baltic to the Black Sea, a nuclear- weapon-free zone. This brings into particular prominence the initiative put forward by Alyaksandr Lukashenka, President of Belarus, to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central and Eastern Europe. Efforts aimed at setting up and consolidating nuclear- weapon-free zones in various regions of the world are gaining momentum. Hence, we consider it illogical for Europe to remain the only continent where no practical steps have been taken in this direction. We strongly believe that setting up a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central and Eastern Europe would further enhance the spirit of trust, mutual respect and partnership in that part of the European continent and would serve as a solid contribution by the European nations to nuclear non- proliferation. In the search for an efficient arms control regime, the delegation of Belarus intends to initiate further consideration at this session of the General Assembly of the item on prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons. Ecologically safe destruction of weapons, conversion of military enterprises, legal aspects of the transfer of sensitive advanced technology and of their impact on the development of science and technology stand high on the list of our priorities. From this lofty rostrum I am proud to say that, despite the formidable economic, social and financial constraints we have had to overcome, Belarus has completely fulfilled all its obligations under the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe. Equally significant is the fact that Belarus submitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations in July 1996 its ratification instruments on joining the Chemical Weapons Convention. Located in the geographical centre of Europe, my country has set itself the goal of preventing dangerous tensions from evolving in the region which, more often than any other part of the planet, has been a seat of world wars, in order to help prevent the emergence of new lines of separation, curtains, walls and other constructions that seemed gone for ever. From that perspective, we must bring to the Assembly’s attention the concern of the Belarusian people regarding the eventual rapid expansion of North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the deployment of its military infrastructure in close proximity to our borders. It is worth noting that a considerable part of the population of Belarus no longer considers NATO a hostile organization. Yet, being realistic, we must admit that much more time is needed to transform that attitude into a sympathetic stance. It would be appropriate to expect that such large and drastic transformations in the European security system to evolve gradually. In these new circumstances, the role of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe 19 (OSCE) acquires new significance. In all confidence, we pin our hopes on the forthcoming OSCE summit in Lisbon. The results of the summit, I am convinced, will prove to be a solid basis for enhancing coordination between the United Nations and the OSCE, as well as for better distributing between them the functions of ensuring regional security in Europe in order to help create a comprehensive security model for Europe in the twenty-first century and to further the efforts towards concerted actions by European States aimed at strengthening stability on the continent. Globalization of the world economy made it possible for the States to considerably expand their markets, as well as the flow of goods, services, finance and technologies, to adjust economic relations and to improve the economic and social well-being of their populations. At the same time, the removal of trade and other economic barriers exposed the vulnerability of countries with less-developed economies. Many of those countries find it difficult to keep pace with the rapid transformations now under way and to break the vicious circle of backward development. That is why the countries with economies in transition, Belarus included, have every reason to expect that special measures will be taken by the United Nations in order to facilitate their integration into the world economic and trade systems and to help them join existing and emerging multilateral economic institutions and mechanisms. We reiterate our intention to host an international conference on the sustainable development of countries with economies in transition, to be convened in Minsk in May 1997. I am convinced that the results of the conference will prove a valuable contribution to the five-year review of the implementation of Agenda 21, at the special session of the General Assembly next June. The activities of the United Nations in the social and environmental fields have a particular significance for Belarus. The problems in these areas are extremely acute due to the negative impact of a number of factors that emerged in the course of complex economic transformations. The leadership of Belarus is undertaking considerable efforts to improve the quality of life of its citizens. At the same time, we are not always able to resolve acute social problems by our own means alone. Decisions adopted at six world summits, held in Rio de Janeiro, Vienna, Copenhagen, Beijing, Cairo and Istanbul, have prompted the needed and long-overdue adoption of a global programme of assistance to the countries that have embarked on the road of market reforms. The problem of refugees, displaced persons and repatriates is also very acute today. Our Republic welcomes the results of the Geneva regional conference on refugees, displaced persons, other forms of forced movements and repatriates in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). I believe that the establishment, under the aegis of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, of a permanent regional centre on migratory problems and refugees for the countries of Eastern Europe could make a considerable contribution to the process of complete and effective implementation of those decisions. We propose that such a centre be headquartered in Minsk. Taking urgent measures to combat terrorism, illicit drug trafficking and organized crime is yet another demand of the moment. Proceeding from this premise, we welcome the initiative announced from this rostrum by Poland to introduce a draft United Nations framework convention against organized crime. Our Republic does not possess nuclear energy, but more than any other State in the world it is interested in the implementation of effective preventive measures in the field of nuclear safety that would make it impossible for new Chernobyls to occur in the future. Belarus is in favour of the comprehensive strengthening of the nuclear- safety regime, including development and adoption of the appropriate international convention with concrete and strong commitments under international control. The initiative to establish a global fund for environmental protection deserves most serious consideration. My country is grateful to the United Nations for its valuable efforts in coordinating, initiating and discussing Chernobyl-related issues. This is extremely important to us. At the same time Belarus is deeply concerned over the fact that, alongside the ongoing discussion related to the closure of the Chernobyl reactor, the problem of mitigating the medical and environmental after-effects of the Chernobyl catastrophe — the main burden of which has been borne by our young State — are being pushed aside. We are deeply concerned over the financial situation of the Organization. Admitting that Belarus now finds itself among the States with the biggest debts to the United Nations, we cannot but underscore that this situation has emerged as a result of objective financial and economic difficulties experienced by Belarus at this complex stage of its development, as well as of the unjust distribution of United Nations expenses among the Member States. Excessive rates of assessment for the United Nations regular budget and for peacekeeping 20 operations has now resulted in one of the founding States of the United Nations being unable, for objective reasons, to fulfil its financial obligations to the Organization. In view of this, we support all-round measures aimed at reforming the entire financial system of the United Nations and the search for fair forms of financial cooperation between the Organization and the Member States, in particular those whose arrears have accumulated due to a number of reasons beyond their control. Finally, the wide-scale reforming of the United Nations system coincides with the democratic transformations taking place in a number of States, Belarus being one of them. Given that the reforms now under way are of immediate concern to each and every citizen of our country, we are fully aware of their significance at this crucial juncture in the development of international relations. Comprehension of the importance of that factor enabled Belarus to secure public law and order, stability and peace in its territory. Yet sometimes it is not so easy for the major political actors to achieve a coordinated approach to tackling the intricate problems facing Belarus at this transitional juncture in its history. Thus, it has become of vital importance today to find an efficient balance between the legislative, the executive and the judicial branches of power and to ensure their stable interaction. This is precisely the purpose of the upcoming popular referendum in Belarus, which is being held at the initiative of President Alyaksandr Lukashenka. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations has also breathed new life into its ideals and strengthened our belief that the United Nations is a unique and genuinely integral part of international life. I am convinced that the fifty-first session of the General Assembly can and must become a starting point for effectively reforming the United Nations, which will be possible only through the joint efforts of all Member States of the Organization. ﻿On behalf of the Government of Kenya, I should like to convey to you, Sir, my sincere congratulations and best wishes on your unanimous election as President of this session of the Assembly. Your election to this high office is a fitting testimony to Malaysia’s commitment to, and support for, the United Nations. Your country has been an ardent champion of the cause of developing countries. I am confident that your sterling qualities and versatile diplomatic capabilities will steer this Organization to greater heights. I also wish to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who presided over the last session with great skill and dedication. In the same vein, allow me to reiterate my delegation’s appreciation to the Secretary-General for the able manner in which he has borne the mantle of this Organization. We wish to commend him for his achievements during the last five years, despite the many obstacles that the Organization has faced. Since its inception, the General Assembly has provided Member States with the opportunity to exchange views on issues of common concern to the international community, with a view to securing a stable and peaceful world. To this end, I wish to assure you, Sir, of Kenya’s commitment and determination to work together with other Member States in order to realize the Organization’s ideals and objectives. We believe that the success of the United Nations depends on the collective resolve of its Members. The international community still faces a number of conflicts that are of great concern, as they continue to undermine international peace and security. We are painfully reminded by history that good and evil coexist, and that without societal restraints, humanity is in eternal danger. As we approach the twenty-first century, and with the cold war behind us, the international community now faces numerous new and complex challenges posed by globalization, fragmentation, democratization and marginalization. There is a need to redesign the international order to meet these challenges. In this regard, we welcome the recent initiatives by the Organization to strengthen its conflict-prevention mechanisms and to promote preventive diplomacy and confidence-building measures. The scourge of armed conflicts in certain parts of Africa constitutes one of the most urgent socio-political problems facing the continent, resulting in a serious threat to security, social cohesion and economic progress. These conflicts have posed serious challenges primarily due to the complexities associated with their internal character. Inter- and intra-State conflicts have led to a multitude of problems, including loss of life, destruction of property, poverty, ethnic tensions and underdevelopment in the countries where they occur. 5 These conflicts have been compounded by natural calamities resulting in a large number of refugees and displaced persons. We wish to reiterate our call to the international community to increase its support in alleviating the suffering of these people. Since the inception of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in 1963, we have witnessed no less than 20 full-fledged civil wars on the African continent. Over the years, some of these wars have been resolved, while others have intensified. We are pleased that peace has been achieved in most parts of Africa. Sadly, however, there are still some intractable conflicts going on, notably in Burundi, the Sudan, Somalia and Liberia. The conflict in Burundi, with its accompanying ethnic character, is of great concern to Kenya and the countries of the subregion. The recent coup d’etat in that country, which overthrew a constitutionally established Government, has compounded the political crisis. It negates the efforts of the OAU to bring to an end the era of military coups which have bedeviled the continent and remains an obstacle to Africa’s quest for peace and stability. In their efforts to find a lasting political settlement, the countries of the subregion — Ethiopia, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, Zaire and Kenya — held a series of meetings culminating in the imposition of sanctions against that sisterly country. These sanctions are aimed at putting pressure on the new regime to restore a democratically elected Assembly, unban political parties and enter into unconditional negotiations with all parties to the conflict. While we welcome the recent Security Council resolution on Burundi, we appeal to the Council to take more decisive steps to ensure that the leaders in Burundi comply with the peace initiative of the second regional summit on Burundi held in Arusha. In this regard, my delegation wishes to take this opportunity to commend the efforts of Julius Nyerere, former President of the United Republic of Tanzania, who continues to facilitate the peace process in Burundi. We take this opportunity to urge the international community to render support to these measures and initiatives. The situation in Somalia continues to be worrisome. The prolonged nature of this conflict, with its accompanying negative effects on the neighbouring countries, remains a matter of great concern to my country. It is now time for the international community to bring pressure to bear on the Somali faction leaders to come to the negotiating table and reach agreement that will, once and for all, relieve the agony and suffering of the Somali people. Kenya will continue to provide its cooperation and support. With respect to the search for a durable peace in the Sudan, Kenya, as the Chairman of the Intergovernmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD) subcommittee on the peace initiative on Sudan, is working together with the other member States to find appropriate remedies to the conflict. While there are no easy solutions to this conflict, the countries of the region, which remain seized of the matter, are hopeful that, through preventive diplomacy, there will soon be an end to the atrocities and that peace will be restored in the Sudan as well. I wish to take this opportunity to express the appreciation of my Government for the confidence the OAU has bestowed upon my country by endorsing Kenya as the sole candidate for the non-permanent seat in the Security Council allocated to Africa for the period 1997-1998 at the elections to be held later this year. The election of Kenya to the Council will provide us with the opportunity to contribute even further to the continued search for international peace and security. The maintenance of international peace and security is a collective responsibility of us all. It was with this in mind that the General Assembly at its fiftieth session urged the Conference on Disarmament to conclude the negotiations for a comprehensive and truly verifiable treaty banning all nuclear testing. It was also with this understanding and expectation that Kenya and other African countries affirmed their commitment to outlawing nuclear testing and the possession of nuclear weapons on the African continent. Towards this end, the Pelindaba Treaty was signed in Cairo on 11 April 1996, declaring Africa a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone. We commend similar efforts that have been undertaken to declare other regions nuclear-free zones. Kenya reaffirms its commitment to total nuclear disarmament. There is no longer any justification for the possession of nuclear weapons nor for their testing. We must work towards the achievement of the goal of complete elimination of all nuclear weapons within a given time-frame. Kenya therefore welcomes the recent conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty as an important step in this direction. The United Nations has a critical role to play in consensus- building in international economic cooperation. Kenya is confident that the Organization will continue to 6 uphold its principles of universality, sovereignty and multilateralism in its decisions and operational activities. We are of the view that the United Nations should be strengthened in order effectively to carry out its mandate and follow-up on the programmes of action that have been agreed upon at the various international conferences. The continuum of global conferences in recent years has enabled us to create a new vision of cooperation towards global development needs. Indeed, the most recent of these, the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), which took place in Istanbul, Turkey, endorsed the need for quick action in addressing the dual objectives of adequate shelter for all and sustainable human settlements. To realize these objectives, the Conference called for new and additional resources and for the strengthening of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements in order for it effectively to carry out its mandate. In this context, Kenya believes that, for this to become a reality, international commitment is imperative. We also view the World Food Summit to be held in Rome this year as a major United Nations conference that will address itself to the primary needs of mankind by ensuring food security and sustainable development. We expect the international community to render appropriate support in order to realize these objectives. While most developing countries continue in their strenuous economic reform efforts, the question of the debt burden and debt servicing remains a major obstacle. Kenya calls for an early consensus on debt relief, reduction and possible cancellation. It is expected that the Bretton Woods institutions will quickly conclude their consultations on the steps to be taken to address the debt problem of developing countries. These should include additional innovative measures that would provide social safety nets to vulnerable groups, particularly children, women and the poor. My own country, Kenya, under the leadership of President Daniel arap Moi, has undertaken far-reaching political and economic reforms. These reforms have been undertaken at painful costs and with adverse effects on the population. However, after suffering a decline in economic growth as a result of the stringent reform measures, our economy is now on the path of recovery and has registered a growth rate of between 5 and 6 per cent this year. The Kenyan economy is now totally liberalized. All foreign exchange restrictions have been abolished, making Kenya one of the most attractive investment destinations anywhere in the world. In order to achieve higher growth and to maintain the development momentum, Kenya appeals for the continued commitment, understanding and support of our development partners. We are also committed to regional integration and the widening of economic space, designed to integrate national economies into formal groupings, centring on trading blocs. The inauguration of the East African Cooperation in Arusha early this year by the three Heads of State of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania, marks an important milestone in our efforts towards political and socio-economic integration. This arrangement, which brings together a population of over 70 million people, has created vast opportunities for investment in our subregion. It also constitutes an important building block towards the realization of the African economic community. We have also recently revitalized IGADD and expanded its mandate to focus on issues of development and conflict prevention, management and resolution. The revitalized IGADD will require full support from our development partners for a speedy implementation of the regional initiatives. In the wider subregion, the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa continues to be the main vehicle for regional integration in eastern and southern Africa. Kenya’s greatest asset is its environment. The herds of wildlife which migrate through the plains, the mysterious forests, the snow-peaked mountains, the ancient lakes and the extraordinary landscapes of the Great Rift Valley have attracted generations of visitors and have become to many a symbol of the beauty and purity of the African continent. Throughout the world, space is being taken up for development purposes by expanding populations. Inappropriate land practices run counter to the conservation of natural resources. Precious species are becoming either endangered or indeed extinct. In Kenya, our policies have been designed to preserve the environment as a common heritage for mankind. We have resisted all pressures against conservation and have created a sanctuary for a great variety of biodiversity in all its grandeur. Furthermore, the Government of Kenya has recently initiated major innovative steps that will ensure the protection of the ecosystem for the enjoyment of future generations. These include public awareness, environmental education, and, most importantly, the Great Rift Valley Conservancy Programme, which will ensure integrated utilization of land. We wish to appeal to the international community to make available the necessary resources to augment 7 such efforts, in order to realize the objective of sustainable development as called for in Agenda 21. In the face of the complex nature of emerging problems in the world today, the demands on the United Nations continue to increase as Member States expect more and more from it. The pressures of facilitating conflict resolution and peacekeeping, promoting sustainable development and combating social problems associated with poverty, disease and famine, have made the demands even more urgent. We therefore welcome efforts to reform the United Nations so that it can serve the interests of Member States more effectively. However, as the United Nations continues in its reform endeavours, the General Assembly must be given greater visibility and authority. The Security Council must be reformed to reflect the principles of democracy, transparency and equitable representation. My delegation wishes to urge Member States to exercise greater flexibility on the various innovative positions with regard to reform of the Security Council in order to reach an early consensus. Similarly, in undertaking financial reforms, bold and practical measures are necessary to ensure adequate and predictable resources. The obligation of Member States to pay their assessed contributions for the regular and peacekeeping budgets, in full, on time and without conditions, cannot be overemphasized. We wish to underscore that reform cannot be an end in itself but must be seen as a necessary tool for enabling the Organization to achieve its objectives in a more efficient and cost-effective manner. We welcome the recent arrangements to establish Nairobi as the location of one of the four United Nations Centres — the only one in the whole of the developing world. We regret, however, that the two United Nations programmes with their Headquarters in Nairobi continue to suffer from lack of adequate funding and capacity underutilization, despite their enormous potential. The recent tendency to locate environment-related secretariats away from Nairobi has had a negative effect on the strengthening of the Centre and should be discouraged. We are convinced that institutional linkage is a vital component for the enhancement of efficiency and capacity- utilization of the limited resources. In this respect, Kenya wishes to record its appreciation to the Secretary-General for holding the meeting of the Administrative Committee on Coordination in Nairobi in April 1996 — a first for the developing world. We in Africa were particularly proud to host that high-level meeting, which took place immediately after the Secretary-General launched the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa. Finally, we wish to take this opportunity to commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, for initiating far-reaching reforms within the United Nations system since his assumption of the high office of chief executive of the Organization. My delegation wishes to express its satisfaction at his untiring efforts to steer the Organization to greater heights as we move into the next century.  ﻿I should first like to greet you, Sir, and to wish you a successful term as President of the General Assembly. I am also happy to inform the Assembly that I come here today from Bosnia, where there is no killing any more. I make both of these statements with great satisfaction. Allow me now to deliver a less optimistic page of my address. While flying to New York the day before yesterday I read an article published in a prominent American newspaper that dealt with the provision of the Bosnian army with arms during the war. The author of the article does not say so explicitly, but he implies that everything that is Muslim smells of terrorism. For him, it seems it is enough to have a Muslim name and to wear a beard to be suspicious. The writer also mentions a number of people. Their only fault is that they helped the Bosnian army to obtain some arms during the war. Today, there are more than a billion Muslims world wide. I do not know in whose interest it is, in this or similar articles, to push them into the embrace of the extremists. Our country and people went through hell. The world deemed that it had the right to impose an arms embargo; we believed that we had the right to self- defence. In a competition between those two rights, we believed, and we still believe, that our right was greater. Therefore, I am not going to apologize to anyone for our having done everything possible to secure arms in order to survive. On the contrary, I pay tribute to all brave people, and express my gratitude to all of the friendly countries that assisted us during the war. That page of our history is over, and we are turning to a new one: Peace. I thank the United States of America for starting the initiative for peace and for making efforts, together with other countries, to strengthen this fragile and complex peace. We are a small country, and we must pursue an open and honest policy. Secret diplomacy and double games are privileges of the mighty. For this and many other reasons, among which is also the aforementioned article, I should like to reiterate some facts and our objectives. Bosnia and Herzegovina is possible only as a democratic State of three equal nations and of free citizens. We accept this fundamental provision of the Dayton Peace Agreement, with all of its consequences. That is, the well- known formula: one State, two entities, three nations. It is often considered that the Dayton Agreement is not good enough. It is good because it has stopped the killing in Bosnia and Herzegovina and because a better plan does not exist. Its main deficiency is not in it, but in its implementation. All of the bad aspects of the Agreement could be improved if it were completely and consistently implemented. Unfortunately, this is not the case. According to the provisions of the Agreement, “Herceg-Bosna”, established as a parallel State during the war, should cease to exist. But it still exists and impedes the building up of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Dayton peace accord provides that the second entity, the Republika Srpska, should facilitate the return to their homes of more than half a million Bosniaks and Croats who have been expelled. This is not happening; rather, expulsions are continuing. Generally speaking, the problem of the Dayton Peace Agreement lies in its selective, that is, partial implementation. The Serbs, for instance, like paragraph 2 of Annex 4, which mentions the Republika Srpska, yet they do not like Annex 7, which demands the return of people who have been expelled. They accept the first provision and reject the second one. The world, and above all, the Contact Group members, should tell them explicitly that the Dayton accord is a whole. If there is no return of the expelled people, there is no Republika Srpska. Otherwise, the Dayton Agreement will grow from a small and bearable injustice into a huge and intolerable injustice — and an intolerable injustice leads to new conflict. The provisions of the Dayton Agreement stipulate that there should be respect for human rights but, nevertheless, human rights are being violated more or less throughout the entire territory. The September elections and the pre-election campaign offered an opportunity to test this in a very effective manner. Conditions are particularly bad in this regard in the territory of Republika Srpska. For the people from the Federation, neither before nor during the elections was there freedom of movement, or it was very limited; and only Serbian political parties could act. Moreover, the electoral boards that registered the voters and counted the ballots consisted in all cases of only one nation and, very often, one party. With regard to free media, significant progress has been achieved only in the territory of the legal Bosnian Government, where a large number of independent newspapers and magazines, 40 radio stations, and 12 television stations operate. During the last 50 days of the pre-election period, the ruling party had only one-tenth of the allotted time available at prime time on the State television station, Television of Bosnia and Herzegovina, from 8 p.m. to 12 p.m., while opposition parties had nine- tenths of the allotted time at their disposal. The Government also granted preliminary approval to the Open Broadcasting Network and stands ready to extend this approval on the condition that the Open Broadcasting Network covers the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and is open to all the political tendencies, left and right. The issue of Brcko will be solved by the main Arbitrator, Mr. Roberts Owen, an American, since the Serbian side does not attend the meetings of the Arbitration Commission. Both parties have presented their arguments. I wish to emphasize that, in making his decision, the Arbitrator will not be totally free. He is bound by respect for the principles of legality and equity, as explicitly stated in Annex 2, Article V of the Dayton Agreement. I will complete this brief analysis of the implementation of the Dayton Agreement by stating that the main war criminals, Karadzic´ and Mladic´, are still free, in spite of Dayton, in spite of the orders of the Hague Tribunal and in spite of the elementary demands of justice. We would like to proclaim the principle of reconciliation of peoples and nations. Bosnia needs this. Here, no one advocates the idea of the collective guilt of a nation. Guilt is always individual, regardless of the number of perpetrators. But for the people to be absolved and for the road towards reconciliation to be open, the criminals must be punished. That is why the international tribunal in the Hague was established, but, as is well known, neither the chief Prosecutor nor the President of the Tribunal are satisfied with what the international community is doing. In vain, they repeatedly indict the perpetrators and forward the warrants. Even on the issue of war crimes, the world is seeking some painless middle- ground solution. When the issue of war crimes like those committed in Bosnia and Herzegovina comes into 2 question, every compromise is a shameful betrayal of justice. Unpunished war criminals will continue to poison the world and ruin its institutions. Some people in Europe, and in the United States also, ask whether, after everything that has happened, Bosnia and Herzegovina is possible. These people either do not know the facts or are morally corrupt. They do not know that on the territory of the Serb entity, over half a million people, 40 per cent of the indigenous pre-war population of Bosnia and Herzegovina, were either killed or expelled, and they are totally indifferent to this fact. My answer is that if genocide without punishment is possible, then Bosnia and Herzegovina is not possible. So the real question is not whether the people can live together, it is more concrete and more straightforward: does a larger nation have the right to expel a smaller nation and then, under the slogan “we cannot live together”, usurp its property and demand that these violations be forgotten and legalized? This is how the question “is Bosnia and Herzegovina possible?” should be formulated. And for people of principle and morality, the answer is clear. Finally, what should the future Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina do at this crucial and historic moment for Bosnia and Herzegovina? In my opinion, it should be constituted as a maximally representative Government composed of all the relevant political actors in conformity with the results of the elections, including an opposition from both entities. It should thereafter proclaim that its programme consists of at least three points. First, it should request from all the signatories of the Dayton Peace Agreement that the Agreement be fully and consistently implemented. At this moment, all the domestic as well as international actors, at least verbally, express their support for this Agreement. The Government should hold them to their words. International pressure in this regard will be necessary for a long time. Secondly, the Government should proclaim the reconciliation of the peoples and nations on the condition that war criminals are prosecuted vigorously. And thirdly, the Government should ensure freedom of the media as a way to heal the country. The media started the war several years ago with the unprecedented spread of hatred. The media can have the same influence in strengthening peace through spreading tolerance and understanding among the people. State radio and television were an appropriate example during the election campaign. The Open Broadcasting Network could also contribute to this if it is open to all ideas and all political directions and if it is regulated by Parliament. This programme cannot be carried out by the Government alone. Bosnia and Herzegovina is still a recovering patient and it needs the world’s support. The presence of international military forces will be indispensable for a certain limited period of time, and economic assistance will be necessary for longer. Before I conclude, I would like to say a few words about the United Nations. We support reform of the United Nations system. The changes are necessary not only in the Organization but in its psychology as well, if I may say so. Reform of the Security Council is also necessary, in conformity with the changes in the world, and also to ensure a new attitude towards obligations. The United Nations must not undertake obligations it cannot carry out. This is impermissible. My people have paid an infinitely high price for this irresponsibility. The “safe area” of Srebrenica and its more than 8,000 innocent victims are not the only, but are the gravest, example of this incomprehensible attitude. We do not know who is responsible, but we seek reforms which will ensure that this will never happen again. Yesterday, in this very building, I signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We are a small country, and my signature on that Treaty is not of great significance. Nevertheless, we want to participate, even if only symbolically, in everything that is constructive. One day Bosnia and Herzegovina, through its representative, will sign a treaty on the suppression of terrorism, and some other day a treaty on the struggle against drugs and organized crime. I hope that in future Bosnia and Herzegovina will join in any activity whose aim is to confront evil, and that it will continually push the limits in the direction of good and towards a better and safer world.  ﻿Please accept my congratulations, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. The Brazilian delegation is confident that, under your leadership, this body will find new strength in the pursuit of the principles and purposes of our Charter. I also wish to pay tribute to my dear friend, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the dedication with which he conducted the historic fiftieth session. We are grateful for his steadfast commitment to ensuring that our work was consistent with the high expectations of the fiftieth anniversary celebrations. My delegation extends a word of gratitude and recognition to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, for the perseverance he has shown in carrying out his tasks. For the first time, Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Portugal and Sao Tome and Principe come to the General Assembly as members of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, a body dedicated to cooperation and political coordination. The member States of the Community intend to consult and to work closely together at the United Nations with a view to better promoting their common interests and fostering their linguistic, cultural and historical identity. The countries of the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) — Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay — have also come to the General Assembly with an enhanced sense of unity. MERCOSUR gives living and concrete expression to economic integration and open regionalism and represents one of the creative forces at work in the Americas. It is a new and striking feature of our continent’s identity and a reflection of democracy and the commitment to economic reform in our region. With the customs union firmly in place, Chile has now joined MERCOSUR as an associated State by means of a free-trade agreement with far-reaching political and diplomatic implications. Bolivia will also shortly associate itself with MERCOSUR. We look forward to other countries’ of the region joining as well to further bolster the dynamic and open nature of MERCOSUR. Now firmly rooted in the process of expanding and acting as an important partner of a growing number of countries and regional groups, MERCOSUR is a positive response by South American countries to the challenges and opportunities of today’s world. Such achievements as MERCOSUR and the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries enhance their credentials and help to make the presence of those countries in the world an instrument for economic development and social progress. My country comes to this General Assembly proud to present itself before the international community with a stronger presence in the world. Brazil owes this to the consolidation of its democracy, to economic stabilization and liberalization and to the resumption of economic growth with a deeper sense of social justice. It owes this as well to its participation in regional integration and in the globalization of the world economy. We are in tune with the two main forces that are shaping the world today: political and economic freedom, on the one hand, and cooperation through integration and trade on the other. I am pleased to say that, through decisive action rather than words, we have made genuine strides in enlarging our dialogue and cooperation with friendly nations worldwide, developed and developing alike. We have strengthened traditional partnerships and established new ones, especially in Africa, Asia and the Middle East. We are aware that, if the Brazilian people are to consolidate these achievements, we will need to persevere in the policies that have brought us this far. We know that these policies have yet to meet many challenges Brazil faces in the social, economic and cultural fields. But they are an important beginning. We are convinced that Brazil’s growing interaction with its region and the world, the consolidation of its international partnerships and a fruitful dialogue and cooperation with its many friends are necessary conditions for our country to continue to pursue its policies at the domestic level. Brazil is one of the world’s largest democracies, a dynamic and diversified developing economy, an attractive opportunity for productive foreign investment and a market of huge potential — in a word, a country capable of enjoying fruitful ties with all nations on the basis of mutual respect and reciprocity. By its very nature, Brazil can act as a bridge between the many different worlds that make up its own internal reality. Our aspirations to enlarging the scope of our participation in the international decision-making bodies will always reflect a careful assessment of our own merits, of our specific weight and of the contribution that we can make to the community of Nations. We seek to be a force for peace and integration. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations understandably raised the expectations of the international community — expectations that we would not dwell only on the past and on the many achievements of the Organization, but also look to the future in search of ways for it to come to grips with new realities and problems. We can confidently say that the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary produced good results. As world public opinion was focused on the United Nations, leaders and Governments were compelled to reflect on the Organization and to make room for it in their political agendas. The historic meaning of the San Francisco Charter was recalled, as was the importance of the United Nations as a forum for political debate and as a sounding board for conflicting interests in the post-cold-war era. Our collective reflection clearly revealed that, without the United Nations, the world would only have been more violent, more unstable and insecure, more unjust and cruel — especially to the weak, who are prey to power politics and arbitrary decisions. We celebrated great advances in international law and in the political and ethical commitments to the issues that concern humanity — issues such as sustainable development, protection of the environment, respect for human rights, disarmament, non-proliferation and the fight against poverty, terrorism, organized crime and drug 2 trafficking. We have thus given a positive account in the first 50 years of the United Nations. We cannot say with the same confidence that the fiftieth anniversary has ushered in a renewed commitment to the United Nations and its future. Our efforts have fallen well short of the expectations of the international community. They have been disappointing even in the light of the predictions of some of the most cautious analysts. A stalemate persists — an uncomfortable stalemate that leads to a feeling of uncertainty and frustration, of insecurity about the future of the United Nations, and thus of apprehension. In the wake of momentous changes on the international scene, the United Nations has embarked upon a new phase in its history without the means and the effectiveness to act as the highest political forum of mankind and to fulfil the mandate conferred upon it by the international community — a mandate that remains as valid today as it was half a century ago. Back in 1961, President John F. Kennedy referred to the United Nations as “our last, best hope”. In the face of the threat of nuclear war and in the midst of various conflicts, those words expressed the confidence of the international community in an Organization founded on the universal principles of peace, understanding and prosperity for all peoples. At that time President Kennedy renewed a pledge to the United Nations, offering: “our pledge of support — to prevent it from becoming merely a forum for invective, to strengthen its shield of the new and the weak and to enlarge the area in which its writ may run.” Thirty-five years after these inspired words, the United Nations finds itself at a crossroads. The world has changed, the correlation of forces has changed, and so have the hopes and expectations of countries with regard to the United Nations and its capacity to manage, prevent and settle conflicts. Yet various confrontations still cause suffering, instability and misery throughout the world. This is happening just as the Organization faces the worst financial and motivational crisis in its history. There is a widespread feeling of dissatisfaction — sometimes veiled and sometimes explicit — with an Organization that still embodies the loftiest ideals ever conceived by the human spirit in the search for peace and understanding among peoples. Brazil is committed to the United Nations Charter and to the Organization’s political, legal and diplomatic legacy of the past 50 years. That commitment is part of the diplomatic history of my country and of the principles that have always governed our actions in this body and in our relations with all peoples, particularly with our 10 neighbours, with whom we have lived in peace for well over a century. Compelled by that commitment, we sound a word of caution to those who, like ourselves, wish to see the United Nations as a source of leadership in international relations, as an instrument for promoting an international society based on freedom, the rule of law and the rights of the citizen. With the political and ideological constraints of the cold war behind us, the world is now organized around much more concrete and pragmatic variables, such as international trade, investment flows and the transfer of technology. The emphasis on political and ideological coalitions has given way to an emphasis on economic coalitions. Pressured by public opinion, Governments are today concerned with social well-being, the quality of life, economic and social indicators and unemployment. The focal point of the political debate is shifting irrevocably from strategy and ideology to economics and integration. That is why the world is following the path of large-scale regional economic agreements. North-South and East-West — the main axes of international politics in the last 50 years — have given way to groups of countries dedicated to the goals of economic integration and the coordination of macroeconomic, financial and trade policies. North, South, East and West are no longer the cardinal points on the international political compass. The World Trade Organization and its body of universal rules and regulations for fostering free trade, the European Union, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC), the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Group of 7, the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), the South African Development Community (SADC), and the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) have become, in their respective areas of action, the catalysts 3 for development, cooperation, understanding and, indeed, for peace. The peace that the founders of the United Nations envisioned may come about as a result of the response by the various regions and groups of countries to the challenges, opportunities and risks of a new world, which today is called the world of globalization. It is a world that generates prosperity and a healthy competition among countries and regions; but it is also a world that swells the ranks of the destitute and the outcast among and within countries, a world that breeds conflict and increases inequality, a world that demands reason, reflection and constructive action. Through peace, cooperation, respect for human rights and development, the United Nations has a major role to play in preventing the divisions of the cold war from finding new expression in a widening gap in well-being. The Organization must evolve in order to successfully play that role as it has so often done in the past. It must adapt its structure and methods of work in order to optimize its human, material and financial resources. It must make use of the great political, strategic, and moral power it is able to muster. It must implement and follow up on its decisions, on the rules with which it updates and consolidates international law and on the commitments it has won from the international community. Much remains to be done in the wake of the great conferences that have shaped the international agenda in the present decade. The conferences on the rights of the child, the environment and development, human rights, population and development, social development, women and human settlements have sealed commitments that must be honoured, decisions that must be implemented and follow- up work that must be carried out. The United Nations must ensure that its agenda becomes more appealing and results-oriented, in order to earn the esteem of the public and to retain its primacy in international relations. We must correct the tendency to convene meetings whose only purpose is to produce other meetings or to adopt resolutions of a rhetorical nature. We must rid the United Nations of its image as a lethargic body incapable of rising to the challenges of our times. Brazil is convinced that United Nations reform remains within reach, that it is still possible to ensure that the United Nations will play a paramount role in this new phase of its existence. We believe in reform as a means to ensure that the United Nations becomes a viable and logical alternative to unilateralism and power politics. We believe in reform as a means to empower the United Nations to act in a radically changed world. We believe in reform as a means to restore the United Nations as a unique forum for political and diplomatic action and debate. One year after our Heads of State and Government drew attention to the seriousness of the financial situation of the United Nations, a solution to the problem remains elusive. To stifle the United Nations little by little by depriving it of the means to perform its functions is no way to secure greater administrative efficiency. Should this scenario persist, then the capacity of the United Nations to adapt to the dynamics of the contemporary world could be seriously jeopardized. We could very well witness a situation where other bodies come to occupy the space left by the United Nations, bodies with their own goals and agendas, which may or may not reflect the prevailing sentiments of the international community and the interests of world peace, security and stability. That is why we need perseverance, courage and, above all, the political will to advance the discussion on issues which reflect a true commitment to the United Nations, issues which relate to the very relevance of the Organization in international relations on the eve in the twenty-first century. One of these issues is the reform of the Security Council. There is a virtual consensus that the Security Council should be enlarged to allow for greater participation by countries with the capacity to act on a global scale and the willingness to bear the responsibilities that would entail. We must now set a course for this process. Its outcome is essential for strengthening the United Nations. Brazil has made several commitments in the field of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems. We are now committed to having the southern hemisphere recognized as an area free of nuclear weapons. It is our firm belief that this is a right to which the peoples of the southern hemisphere are entitled, and an obligation on the part of those throughout the world who possess nuclear weapons or the means to develop them. A further commitment to disarmament in all fields that I now wish to convey to the General Assembly is the 4 decision by the Brazilian Government to declare a moratorium on the export of anti-personnel land-mines. The experience of the Brazilian contingent serving in the United Nations Angola Verification Mission has underlined for us the importance of a universal moratorium of this kind and the need to rid the world of the scourge of land mines, which pose a threat to the daily lives of millions of human beings. We would like to see all countries that export land- mines or that have the capability to do so join in this decision. The international community has placed its hopes in a Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). These hopes are fully justified. We have a historic opportunity to put an end to an outdated practice which has increasingly drawn repudiation and condemnation from international public opinion. We are taking an important step towards general and complete nuclear disarmament and stating unequivocally that there is no room in today’s world for nuclear weapons or regional arms races. Brazil is committed to the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and to the elimination of nuclear arsenals. It has consistently expressed its disapproval of nuclear tests. Brazil strove for approval of the CTBT at the Conference on Disarmament and considered the blocking of consensus in Geneva a grave setback. It was inconceivable to Brazil that we could have let the moment pass, that we could have run the risk of seeing the CTBT meet the same fate as so many other initiatives which were allowed to lapse into oblivion. This is why Brazil was one of the first sponsors of the Australian initiative to seize the historic opportunity of submitting the CTBT for approval by the General Assembly. This decision reflected the commitment to bequeath to present and future generations a safer and nuclear-weapons-free world. This is why Brazil will immediately sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We call upon all nuclear- and non-nuclear-weapon States to do the same. The peoples of the world expect action and leadership from the United Nations. They expect that the United Nations will continue to be an essential benchmark of international politics over the next 50 years and that it will always be not the last, but our best hope.  ﻿It is with great pleasure that I take this opportunity to warmly congratulate you on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first regular session. Your election is a tribute not only to your country, Malaysia, but also to you personally. I am aware that you bring to the presidency of the General Assembly wide experience in the field of international relations, from which we stand to benefit immensely. I would also like to wish you every success in your important duties. I would further like to affirm the readiness of my delegation to cooperate with you in the discharge of your duties. Allow me also to pay tribute to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, who presided over the fiftieth regular session of the General Assembly with great skill and dedication. His presidency did indeed enhance the deliberative role of the General Assembly. Furthermore, my delegation would like to record its appreciation for the work of our esteemed Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, carried out under trying conditions. Zambia greatly values the contribution of the Secretary-General to the reform process of the United Nations and can only hope that the entire membership will give him a second term in order for him to complete these reforms. This session of the General Assembly is distinctive because it is being held in the aftermath of the historic fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, which we observed last year. It will be recalled that in observing and celebrating that important event, we made solemn commitments to steer the world body towards the progressive development of a world community that would be cooperating effectively in dealing with global problems in the interest of humanity. We also agreed that the United Nations should be more democratic, transparent and responsive and should be the common property of all the people of the world, in whose name it was created in the first place. We went on to state that we wanted all citizens of the world to have real ownership of the Organization. We also set for ourselves economic and social goals. In some cases, we went as far as to agree on specific time-bound targets by which progress would be measured. This session, therefore, marks the beginning of a process of fulfilling these solemn commitments that we made last year. Crucial to fulfilling these commitments is the issue of the reform of the United Nations, which is now under way. Reform and continuous renewal are indispensable if the future of the Organization is to be secured. All of us have to play our part with the hope and determination necessary to carry forward the United Nations reform agenda with speed and thoroughness. In this way, we can work towards strengthening the Organization and make it serve humanity more effectively. It is my conviction that the United Nations can achieve greater success if we, the stakeholders, work towards creating a much improved Organization. As the twenty-first century approaches, the greatest challenge facing the international community is to improve the living conditions of the majority of people. Every human being must have access to opportunities that afford a decent livelihood under conditions that are free from want, disease, hunger and ignorance. The World Summit for Social Development held in Copenhagen last year adopted a framework to deal with poverty and other social problems. Far too many people, especially women and children, are vulnerable to marginalization and deprivation. We need to invest more resources to end the conditions of endemic human deprivation existing in many parts of the world today. There are several other areas where we need to improve the social conditions of life. The first ever World Congress on the Sexual Exploitation of Children, held in Stockholm, Sweden, in August this year, presented in graphic detail the atrocities being committed against children. Many young lives are being wasted in the huge, illegal international business of child prostitution and pornography. As a civilized world, we cannot allow lifestyles that are attuned to the sexual abuse of children. It is the hope of my delegation that all countries of the world will work expeditiously to implement the Agenda for Action adopted at the World Congress. In the same vein, the international community must continue to protect and promote the rights of the child by implementing the provisions of the Declaration and Programme of Action of the World Summit for Children. The United Nations has also articulated various programmes aimed at the improvement of the status of women and youth. Commitments contained in the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, as well as the World Programme of Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond, require the devoted attention of the international community, especially with regard to empowerment strategies in the critical areas of employment, education, health and participation in societal decision-making. It is incumbent upon us all to honour the commitments we made in the declarations and the programmes of action. My country has committed itself to the attainment of the objectives contained in these documents. Women and children are invaluable resources that can be neglected only at the world’s own peril. It is fitting that we begin this session shortly after the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). Zambia supported the adoption of this Treaty because of our commitment to general and complete disarmament under effective international control. It is in the same spirit that my country signed the Pelindaba Treaty, establishing Africa as a nuclear-free zone, on 11 April this year. Zambia will be signing the CTBT with the hope that all other countries of the world will do so as well, in the spirit of the traditional recognition by the United Nations that disarmament is one of the priority questions of international relations. In this regard, Zambia would like to call on nuclear-weapon States to inject a new spirit of commitment to ensuring nuclear disarmament, in accordance with article 6 of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In this connection, my delegation wishes to reiterate the conviction that the time has indeed come for the convening of another special session of the General Assembly, in 1999, devoted to disarmament. My delegation believes that such a session would offer additional possibilities for the international community to review, from a perspective more in tune with the current international situation, the most critical aspects of the process of disarmament in the post-cold-war era. It is common knowledge that in most of today’s conflicts the most widely used weapons are small arms and light weapons. None is more menacing than land- mines, the use of which is widespread. Currently more than 110 million of them are buried in various parts of the world, mostly in developing countries. The world cannot continue to lose human lives from these lethal weapons. In this regard, my delegation fully supports calls for the banning at the global level of the use, stockpiling, production and sale of anti-personnel land-mines for all time. Zambia will therefore support initiatives, during this session of the General Assembly, to effect such a global ban. The issue of small arms and light weapons brings me to the question of conflicts in various parts of the world that our Organization has increasingly been called upon to resolve. The international community faces the challenge of bringing peace in countries where warring factions show, in some cases, irreconcilable ethnic differences and other forms of intolerance. 2 The African region has its sad share of these conflicts that have led to great loss of life, displacement of people and the disruption of vital economic activities. Burundi is one such major challenge. The measures to restore the parliament in Burundi and unban political parties, which were announced on 11 September by the military regime of Major Pierre Buyoya, are steps in the right direction. My delegation, however, wishes to underscore the point that changes of Government should occur only through constitutional and internationally accepted means. Therefore, unless and until a constitutional Government is established in Burundi, my Government will continue to withhold recognition of the Buyoya regime. The immediate action of the countries of the Great Lakes region to impose sanctions on Burundi following the coup d’état of 25 July 1996 deserves the commendation of the United Nations. There is no doubt that this action is what has forced the military Government in Burundi to restore the parliament and to unban political parties. We are encouraged with regard to Rwanda by the fact that the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda has finally been established and that its work has started. It is vitally important that the perpetrators of genocide in Rwanda in 1994 should be brought to justice. This would serve as a deterrent to others who would otherwise be tempted to commit similar crimes. The re-emergence of genocide, war crimes and other crimes against humanity should be a source of great worry to the international community. Such crimes should not be allowed to continue, because they violate fundamental human rights and strike at the very foundation of the international legal system. The Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) has done an admirable job of containing the situation in Liberia and preventing it from degenerating further. We are now seeing more promising steps towards the settlement of the conflict in Liberia. The gains achieved in Liberia can only be consolidated by the continued support of the international community for ECOMOG so that the timetable adopted at the recent Abuja summit can be effectively implemented. The peace process in Angola is also on track, as evidenced by the quartering and disarmament, which are now almost complete after some extensions. The Assembly is also aware that only two days ago the situation in Angola was deliberated upon by Heads of State or Government of the Southern African Development Community in order to bring the leadership of the Movimento Popular de Libertação de Angola-Partido Trabalhista (MPLA) and the União Nacional para a Independência Total de Angola (UNITA) together. Unfortunately, the UNITA leader, Mr. Jonas Savimbi failed to attend. Efforts to bring peace to Angola will nevertheless continue. The regional summit on Angola demonstrated the strong commitment of the leaders of southern Africa to the resolution of the conflict in Angola. However, the international community needs to be continuously engaged in order to ensure that the situation is resolved. We urge that the integration of former UNITA guerrillas into the national army of Angola be speeded up to consolidate the peace process. Zambia would also like to urge Mr. Jonas Savimbi and other UNITA leaders to be more resolute in the implementation of the commitments they made in the Lusaka Protocol. I wish to take this opportunity to commend the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Angola, Mr. Alioune Blondin Beye, for the good work he has done in the Angolan peace process. However, even when peace finally comes to Angola, it will be important for the international community to provide assistance to that country in areas that will facilitate rapid national reconstruction, such as mine clearance. The issue of Western Sahara continues to be Africa’s last unresolved colonial question. My delegation believes that it is not beyond the wisdom of this Assembly to overcome whatever obstacles may be standing in the way of a referendum. We would therefore like to appeal to the principal parties to cooperate with the Secretary-General in finding a lasting solution to this problem. With regard to Somalia, my delegation is concerned at the apparent lack of efforts by the international community towards finding a lasting solution to the crisis in that country. The situation in Somalia is also not conducive to regional peace and security. We therefore call upon the international community to seek ways and means through appropriate organs to assist the people of Somalia to reach accommodation with each other, just as we call on the Somali factions themselves to work towards a genuine political settlement so that peace may return to that country. The situation in the Middle East is a source of great danger to regional peace and security. We urge the parties to the conflict not to abandon but to consolidate the peace process brought about through sacrifice and painstaking work. The violent confrontation that has taken place in the past three days is a matter of grave concern to us. Zambia still believes, however, that the parties will 3 harness the moral courage and the political will that are necessary to return to the peace process. Zambia believes that for the peace process to restart and gain momentum, the new Government in Israel should respect and implement the agreements already reached on the Middle East peace process, in accordance with the norms of international law. Since its inception, the United Nations has faced the challenge of facilitating effective international economic cooperation. However, we have yet to attain a satisfactory level where countries of the world can pursue prospects for development through the machinery of the Organization. Multilateralism is indispensable to the management of the process of the globalization of the world economy that is now going on. Major issues like foreign direct investment, currency stability, external debt problems, international trade and commodity price stabilization require durable multilateral cooperative arrangements. It is the hope of my delegation that the current work taking place at the United Nations on an Agenda for Development, the strengthening of the United Nations and prospective new modalities for financing operational activities for development will generate possibilities to implement fully the provisions of Chapter IX of the Charter of the United Nations. It is also the hope of my delegation that the reform of the Bretton Woods institutions will not further erode the capacity of the United Nations to deal with economic questions. It is, however, a matter of concern to my delegation that United Nations agencies and departments are facing budget cuts because of the continuing financial crisis of the world body. Our concern is heightened by the fact that in March this year, the United Nations embarked on a decade- long process of promoting African development through its System-wide Special Initiative for Africa. The United Nations, which is at the centre of the implementation of the Special Initiative, requires strong institutional capacities. The continuing financial crisis is certainly going to erode this institutional capacity further. The Special Initiative and the Zambian economic reform programme complement each other. We hope that this is also the case with other African countries. We are also particularly happy that the Special Initiative gives prominence to peace-building, conflict resolution, national reconciliation and strengthening of the capacity for governance in the wide agenda of socio-economic development on the African continent. As is well known, economic progress in Africa has all too often been undermined by conflicts. As the international community supports African development, we once again draw its attention to the burden of external debt that is stunting African development. Both the Special Initiative and the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s recognize that the major obstacle to sustained economic growth and development is the problem of external debt. It is the expectation of my delegation that deeper debt reduction going beyond the Naples terms can be agreed upon in the near future. Deep debt reduction will go a long way in facilitating domestic savings and investments in Africa, especially in the social sectors, and thereby reduce poverty, environmental degradation and dependency on aid. Before I conclude, I should say a few words about the political situation in Zambia. In November 1991, my country embarked on a multi-party democratic process. We are almost at the end of the first five-year period of democratization. Zambia will hold presidential and parliamentary elections this year under conditions of firm political stability. We are determined to maintain this stability by ensuring that peace prevails throughout the election period. The Movement for Multiparty Democracy, which is currently running the Government, has been unequivocal in condemning all forms of political violence and intolerance. There is no political crisis in Zambia. The people of Zambia have continued with their daily lives in peace, security and full confidence in the political process of the country. In order to demonstrate good faith in the conduct of the democratic process, the Government of Zambia has invited international observers to participate in monitoring our elections. These are in addition to local independent election monitors. It is our desire that as many observers as possible should participate in this process, which is aimed at consolidating democracy. Zambia believes that the ideals of the United Nations are indispensable to the development of the partnership of countries. It is therefore the supreme duty of all of us to promote and uphold them. In this context, I would like to conclude by reaffirming the faith of my delegation in the ideals of the United Nations. ﻿On behalf of the delegation of the Central African Republic, I should like to express our warmest and most heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Razali Ismail on his election to the presidency of this session. His proven skill in international affairs assures us that our work will be crowned with success. I would assure him of my delegation’s cooperation. 19 We also wish to extend to the outgoing President, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, the deepest appreciation of the delegation of the Central African Republic for the competence with which he served the Organization throughout his mandate. Lastly, I should like to pay a heartfelt tribute to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his courageous and tireless work, work which does honour to Africa and which is often performed in a hostile context, to have the principles of the United Nations Charter prevail in all circumstances. The work of our Secretary-General deserves to be encouraged and must continue. The evaluation of the United Nations 50 years of existence revealed the Organization’s continuing shortcomings in the accomplishment of its mission. However, the end of the cold war, which allowed us to glimpse a new era in international relations, opened prospects for renewed cooperation commensurate with the hopes that emerged at the end of the world’s division into blocs. In that connection, the United Nations was at last to rediscover its capacity to handle relations among States on the sole basis of the application of the principles that have brought us together here in this Hall. Opposing tendencies continue to vie for attention at a time when we must, with shared resolution, ensure respect for an international rule of law. The world today has changed. The aspiration to wider freedom and greater recognition of equality is stronger than ever before. Thus, the delegation of the Central African Republic believes that the shortcomings and limitations of our Organization, like those inherent in any human endeavour, must be rectified, and they can be, if States give priority to concerted action, to dialogue and a shared search for solutions to the world’s problems. Together, we will be better able to establish the universal values of the United Nations. Indeed, that is our principal task. The wider advent of democracy, its affirmation and its implantation are of course primarily the choice of a people. However, democracy, which is a universal value, is also the struggle of all democratically minded people who share its ideals, and the struggle of the United Nations, whose very establishment was a response to an international order of dictatorship and terror with the tragic consequences we all known. We are therefore in duty bound to create true solidarity so as to ensure the defence and spread of democracy. This is an appropriate time for me to dwell for a moment on the case of my own country, the Central African Republic. In the space of one month, a country that was already very far advanced in negotiations to conclude an agreement with the Bretton Woods institutions was to undergo two mutinies that proved to be attempts at coups d’états. The world was presented with a shocking and unfamiliar picture of my country, erasing the efforts of the national community to turn its back on its past and wiping out the efforts of Central Africans to devote themselves, within the framework of their sovereign choice, to the search for the means of developing the Central African Republic, with its vast potential in mining, agriculture and livestock and with its abundant rainfall. There were deaths, there was destruction, but above all there was an attempt, by force of arms, to impose the will of a tiny fraction of the nation on the majority. The long struggle of the Central African nation freely to choose its leaders at the ballot box was about to be obliterated without any legitimacy or legality whatsoever. Central African democracy is three years old. It is developing in very difficult economic circumstances, and it must find within itself the necessary spirit of confidence, solidarity, hard work and organization. The affairs of state of this young democracy must be given the transparency needed for good governance and the confidence to build at last a country whose potential will enable it to provide its children with a healthy future. That is the constant message that President Ange- Félix Patassé, our Head of State, has expressed to his compatriots ever since assuming office in the Central African Republic. But there is still a long road to follow, and one strewn with pitfalls, before we can arrive at the tranquillity of older democracies that makes military adventurism inadmissible. While this destiny is mainly the responsibility of each country, the Central African Republic believes that defence of the universal values of freedom and equality is also the responsibility of all democrats, whether or not they are States. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to express the gratitude of the Government of the Central African Republic to those friendly countries, especially France, the United States of America, Germany, Gabon, Chad, Zaire, Congo, Senegal, Togo, Benin, Mali, Côte d’Ivoire and Sudan, which gave their 20 support, in the name of the principles of democracy, to the choices of the Central African Republic and its institutions during this difficult period. That same appreciation is extended to the Secretary-General of the OAU, and above all to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his unambiguous and courageous position in defence of democracy. Collectively, the Central Africans overcame this difficult stage in the history of their country because in dark moments they always had the spirit to find a solution to preserve the essential, the unity of the country, reinforced by a common language, Sango. Since then, the Central African Republic has been working to find ways and means to strengthen the peace and security it has restored. Hence, with the participation of friendly countries such as France, Gabon, Senegal, and Mali (with the contribution of its former President Amadou Toumani Toure), the Government has organized national structures for defence. It recently convened an important seminar, with the support of the United States of America on the role of the military in a democracy. This meeting served to draw attention to the place of the army within the nation; in other words, in a republic the armed forces must be under civil authority. Another dimension of restoring peace and security is the relaunching of the economy. My country wishes to pay tribute to the promptness with which countries such as France, the Republic of China and Germany and bodies such as the United Nations, through the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) intervened, either providing direct support for the re launch or helping to develop an emergency programme leading to a joint meeting of donors in Bangui. The pledges made during that meeting were encouraging and we hope for further such offers of support during the round table planned for 1997. But it is the intention of the President of the Republic, Ange-Félix Patassé, to reach an agreement with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. This intention has been repeated and will be pursued. The course taken in international relations since the end of the cold war should prompt States to turn to multilateral cooperation and United Nations principles should come fully into play in crisis settlement. This should apply to the question of the Middle East, where the current peace process must be pursued and concluded without delay. It should also apply to the situation in Rwanda and Burundi, where regional initiatives must also back up international efforts, in the Western Sahara, in Angola and in Liberia, where it should be possible to implement the United Nations plan of action. The firm political will of all continues to be necessary to achieve this, with a constant search for mechanisms that build and strengthen confidence among States. In this respect, the signing of the non-aggression pact among States members of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Questions of Security in Central Africa will certainly contribute, if observed, to preserving good-neighbourly relations among the signatories and will free the dynamic elements in one of the richest regions of the world for integrated development efforts. In that same spirit, during this session the Central African Republic intends to sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which it fully supported at the draft stage. Political will presupposes the strengthening of the United Nations authority and its universal nature. That authority flows from its rightful place in the world, a world that has changed to such an extent since the establishment of the United Nations that the working methods of its organs need to be adapted. The United Nations is no longer accorded the status it had during the decolonization movement. There has been a loss of regard for the United Nations, especially since the division of the world into hostile blocs came to an end. States, particularly the powerful ones, prefer to resolve problems outside the United Nations, or consider that the Organization should merely endorse their decisions. The United Nations should not be used as a tool in this way; therein lies the root cause of the powerlessness of which it stands accused. The restructuring efforts begun two years ago must be pursued and stressed in order to achieve rational and real structural reforms allowing the Organization to operate more efficiently in various areas, beginning with the Security Council. The Security Council should include countries from both the North and South that can provide the financial and political resources needed by the Organization to defend peace. From this standpoint, the Central African Republic delegation supports the initiatives taken by Germany and Japan. The economic weight of these countries and their activities to promote development and peace give them an outstanding place in international cooperation today. 21 What is more, the democratization of international relations also involves a strengthening of the universalist nature of our Organization, because the United Nations, with its mission to bring together all States and civilizations of the world, can no longer refuse to admit States, especially if those States are able to meet the obligations inherent in the status of Member. I should like to raise here the question of the Republic of China in Taiwan. My delegation regrets that this question is once again not on our agenda this year. Yet the first consequence of the end of the cold war was the reassessment of questions associated with this period, for example the issues related to General Assembly resolution 2758 (XXVI), which artificially deprives the Republic of China of its place in the United Nations. This is a flagrant injustice that should be redressed by the international community, which can surely not allow a sovereign and independent State, in which free and democratic elections have recently been held, to be indefinitely excluded, with its 21 million inhabitants, from United Nations activities. The European Parliament has recognized this. Last July it adopted a proposed joint resolution requesting the United Nations to study the possibility of participation by the Republic of China in the activities of bodies that report to the General Assembly. Furthermore, there are many challenges facing the world today requiring the general mobilization of all States, including the Republic of China, whose participation in efforts for peace and development throughout the world is already highly appreciated. The delegation of the Central African Republic therefore appeals to the General Assembly’s wisdom and realism and invites it to examine the question during its next session so that the Republic of China in Taiwan can resume its seat in the United Nations. It has been said time and again that the world has become a global village, characterized by an intermingling of cultures, ideas, economies, markets, norms of behaviour and the ever more rapid coming together of peoples, despite the barriers imposed by frontiers. My delegation believes that the acceleration of the process of globalization will lead to an increasingly integrated approach to development management so as to find a global solution. Given the proliferation of internal conflicts and regional tensions, the harmful effects of economic disorder, the spread of the AIDS pandemic, the rise of crime and terrorism, violations of human rights, the ever-widening international character of drug-trafficking networks and the deterioration of the environment, there is no single area of international relations that does not require a collective effort on the part of States if it is to be mastered. The Central African Republic would like to emphasize the issue of the AIDS pandemic. This problem requires the keen attention of the entire international community, because no solution is near. The small size and youthfulness of the country’s population explain why the Government is paying special attention to this pandemic, and to the question of health in general. That is why we believe that agencies such as the World Health Organization, the United Nations Children’s Fund and the United Nations Population Fund must be encouraged. For the delegation of the Central African Republic the hope that has been placed in the will of States to mobilize for this vast international cooperative action will truly make it possible to embark on the second 50 years of the United Nations in a way that will avoid the pitfalls experienced during the first 50 years of its existence. In our lives as human beings there are always times when we need to look within ourselves, and at our existence, to see exactly what must be done and in what direction to go. It is the responsibility of States to make of the United Nations what they want it to be, taking account of its failings, weaknesses, limits and shortcomings. States today must do all they can, with a constant effort of political will, to support our Organization so that multilateral cooperation has full scope. The defence of peace and the promotion of sustainable development during this time of globalization cannot succeed otherwise. The delegation of the Central African Republic would like to share with the other members of the international community the hope that, during the next 50 years, the world will embark resolutely on the path laid down by the founding fathers of the Organization. An important part of the attainment of the principles and values of the Charter will be the implementation of the proposals made by our 22 dynamic Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, through the Agenda for Peace, the Agenda for Development and, above all, the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa.﻿In common with the speakers preceding me, I should like to congratulate you upon your election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. We see it not only as a recognition of your personal qualities, but also, and above all, the consecration of the distinguished part played by your country in the international arena. Through your person, the honour that derives from your election is shared with the member countries of the Non-Aligned Movement, which gives us particular pride. I would like to assure you of the complete cooperation and full support of the delegation of Madagascar, which it is my privilege to lead. My congratulations also go to the other members of the General Committee, to whom we wish every success in their work. Lastly, I would like to take this opportunity to express to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, our warm gratitude for all the efforts that he made during his term as President of the Assembly at its fiftieth session. I would like to assure him that we followed closely and with interest the activities and contacts which he undertook on behalf of our Organization and in order to further its objectives. The disappearance of the political and ideological divisions arising from the cold war gave birth to hopes for greater international security, stability, peace and prosperity, so that the international community could henceforth focus its efforts on the establishment of a just, equitable and truly multilateral and non-discriminatory international order, and on the strengthening of cooperation for international development. These hopes, however, not been fulfilled. A feeling of anxiety prevails in the face of the imbalances, insecurity, tensions and contradictions clouding the prospects for peace and economic development. The forces of conflict have grown to dangerous proportions as they have spilled over frontiers, and have assumed various forms such as terrorism, separatism, fundamentalism, intolerance and xenophobia. Similarly, the interdependent world economy continues to be dominated by uncertainty, imbalances and recession. Negative economic growth rates, persistent imbalances in the commercial and financial fields, increased transitional or structural unemployment, and an absence of coordination in exchange rates and trade policies — these are some of the problems connected with the system of the developed world which have an adverse impact on the developing countries. For in fact the resources allocated to cooperation for development have fallen, on the pretext that up to now this has achieved nothing for the beneficiary countries, including our countries in Africa, whose priorities, at both national and continental level, have been to relieve absolute, endemic poverty, to eradicate hunger and malnutrition, to overcome disease and illiteracy, and to meet the needs for housing and sanitation. In this connection, just as we welcomed Habitat II last June in Istanbul, we commend the initiative of the Director- General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) to convene the World Food Summit next November in Rome, to sensitize international opinion to the problem of hunger in the world, thereby reviving interest in the subject that has apparently waned. Thus it is clear that the world today is confronted with urgent social and economic problems which, at the national, regional and international levels, require efforts and the implementation of policies and measures that can provide urgent solutions. The future of world trade, financial and monetary regimes, economic growth and social development, as well as human rights, the environment and population in relation to development, are vital issues that inextricably link the fate and destiny of all countries. It is therefore comforting to recall the solemn commitment made by the international community on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, on the night of 24 October 1995, to mobilize in the quest for peace, security, development and stability. In order to attain these objectives and successfully discharge the functions assigned to it in the Charter, the United Nations needs to be reformed in order to adjust to a world in constant change. With respect to the increase in the membership of the Security Council, the principle is accepted in general, if for no other reason than to respond to the increase in the number of United Nations Member States. The proposals put forward in this context are as interesting as they are varied, each invoking praiseworthy objectives, depending on one’s viewpoint. Thus the Italian proposal, drawing on the principle established in Article 23 of the Charter, highlights the need to favour the geographical regions that are currently under-represented. This comes close to the concern of countries such as Madagascar, which wholly subscribes to the decision taken by the African summit in July 1996, namely that the Security Council must become more representative in nature and reflect the composition of the Organization in a new international system, so as to correct the geographical imbalance that now characterizes it and make it a genuine organ for the execution of the General Assembly’s resolutions. The African position gives priority for the time being to an increase in the number of members. both permanent and non-permanent. This restructuring of the Security Council should allocate two new permanent seats to Africa, three to Asia, two to Latin America and the Caribbean, and one to the European and other States. With respect to the post of Secretary-General of the United Nations, Madagascar associates itself with the chorus of all African countries, through the Declaration of Yaoundé, which reaffirmed Africa’s right to a second term in the Secretary-General’s post, as has been the practice since the creation of the Organization. Accordingly, Madagascar supports the re-election of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, one of whose main objectives has been to identify and elaborate concrete proposals for the recovery and development of Africa so as to make the United Nations system’s support to the continent as effective as possible. In that context, the support of the international community as a whole is a must. We take note of the progress achieved in resolving the debt problem and in the implementation of the Naples terms, as well as the recommendations made by the Group of Seven summit convened in Lyon in June 1996. The developing countries, particularly in Africa, certainly need substantial international support, but it is above all the responsibility of our leaders and peoples to make the necessary changes to create a suitable sociopolitical climate for development on a large scale. Thus we have no choice but to continue to work, by ourselves to begin with, to achieve collective self-reliance at the national, regional and continental levels. For its part, Madagascar, which has just completed its economic policy framework document, hopes in the near future to benefit from additional measures from its creditors going beyond the Naples terms to give a fresh impetus to its development. Indeed, in today’s world of multidimensional interdependence, any failure in development can only harm us all, rich and poor alike, since poverty is defined in terms of collective responsibility and the rights of every individual. In the field of human rights, efforts must be stepped up to translate into real action the 1992 Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, adopted by the General Assembly. 2 With respect to the challenges arising in the Middle East, Bosnia and Northern Ireland, we note that we are advancing in the right direction. Madagascar is attentively following the recent phases, particularly as regards the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians. Moreover, like all peoples of the world, we reaffirm our wish to see the peaceful reunification of Korea. In the face of the situation obtaining in the Western Sahara after the Security Council’s decision of May 1996, Madagascar remains concerned. The frequent setbacks experienced by the conventional approach to peacekeeping should persuade us to persevere in our efforts to prevent conflict and give subregional structures responsibility for the maintenance of peace, as advocated in the United Nations Secretary-General’s Agenda for Peace, and as applied by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. Against this background, the General Assembly should be given appropriate powers to have access to mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of conflicts. The mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of conflicts should be strengthened in the light of the provisions advocated in the Agenda for Peace. When peace is restored, the role of United Nations forces as a buffer in international, civil or ethnic conflicts should also be strengthened. Madagascar intends to participate concretely in peacekeeping operations. Regional structures for conflict resolution, such as those that exist within the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity and the Non-Aligned Movement, should again be strengthened. For us, the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution has proved its usefulness in Africa in a number of cases, inter alia, through the intervention of regional units of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the Inter- Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD), which have operated respectively in sub-Saharan Africa and in the Sahel. Madagascar fully subscribes to this approach, as is borne out by its direct involvement in the mediation process for the settlement of the Comorian conflict in 1995. The signing of the Pelindaba Text of the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty this year attests to the willingness of the African countries to banish all nuclear weapons from their soil. Madagascar, faithful to its principles, is now initiating the procedure for accession to this Treaty. It is in this connection that Madagascar has just signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Similarly, my country also considers that the extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is an initial response to the major challenges of our time in the area of nuclear proliferation and arms limitation. In the environmental sphere, after the legitimate concerns expressed by Heads of State and Government at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) in Rio de Janeiro, energetic measures must be taken through a common commitment by all countries. There is no need to demonstrate that environmental problems know neither political nor natural boundaries. Nevertheless, at the domestic level, it must be emphasized that people are not always sensitive to the almost irreconcilable concepts of conservation and protection and meeting basic needs (heating, fuel, fisheries resources, etc.). It is in the light of these considerations that Madagascar has opted for a gradual approach regarding its accession to international environmental conventions. Thus the country has set up a basic framework for environmental policy, termed the Environmental Charter. It has drawn up an environmental programme in three stages phased over a 15-year period; negotiations for multi-donor financing of this programme have just been completed in September in Paris. With respect to international conventions, Madagascar has ratified the main Conventions, including the Convention on Biological Diversity, the United Nations International Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, and the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer. As it implements these various Conventions, Madagascar wishes to enlist the participatory involvement of its people, and thus apply the principle of “Think globally — act locally”. Lastly, one year after the Beijing Conference and one year after the Copenhagen summit, I would not wish to conclude without recalling Madagascar’s efforts in the social sphere, as demonstrated by the permanent structures within successive Governments for the benefit of women, children and social problems in general. 3 At the dawn of the twenty-first century, Madagascar, like all nations on earth, aspires to a world of peace and progress in which the scourges of war, poverty and destruction will be banished forever. The United Nations is the ideal place to build such a world, provided that all peoples and all leaders have the necessary political will and transform into reality all the promises made. That is the Malagasy delegation’s ardent hope.  ﻿On behalf of the Government of Gabon, it is an honour and a pleasure for me to address this eminent gathering. Like previous speakers, I wish to recall that this meeting is being held just one year after the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. On that occasion, the balance sheet of our activities was examined many times. Fortunately, we are all agreed that we must seek together to find solutions to the major problems of the world, thereby preventing the outbreak of conflicts by establishing effective tools for negotiation and cooperation. For all of us who participate and who believe in it, the United Nations is a valuable tool in the service of a common ideal. This has been reflected in some positive achievements achieved through pragmatism. The essential lesson to draw from our assessments is that, while it has not yet been able to meet all the challenges before it, the United Nations has nonetheless remained worthy of our hopes. That is why delegations from nearly all nations annually take the opportunity offered by the regular session of the General Assembly to review the major concerns of the moment and to devise new goals. But before touching on that subject, I wish to convey to Mr. Razali the sincere and warm congratulations of the delegation of Gabon on his brilliant election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. It is a tribute to his country, Malaysia, and a recognition of his great personal qualities. He has our best wishes for success as he guides our proceedings. I would also like to express our thanks and affection to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Portugal, for the manner in which he carried out his term of office at the fiftieth session. To Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, I reaffirm here the support of the Government of Gabon for all his work on the tasks of our Organization and for the competence and authority he has demonstrated in carrying out his mandate, which have coincided with the formulation of United Nations reform measures. He is a worthy son of Africa who has done honour to our Organization. As all member States of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) stated at the July 1996 Summit in Yaoundé, Gabon hopes that he will continue his work. Building lasting and orderly peace based on the sincere and active cooperation of sovereign nations is one of the major missions of the United Nations. In our interdependent yet fragmented and multipolar world, the United Nations must play a more assertive role, particularly in the emergence of a new political and economic international order. It must help us to redress the general imbalance that has gripped the world since the end of the 1980s. The sovereign equality of all States is among the main principles of our community of nations. Accordingly, we must cultivate flexible and dynamic thought that transcends relations of power and allows our Organization to achieve its goal of universality. This is the approach one must follow with regard to United Nations reform. Many countries have made contributions and many initiatives have been taken, as can be seen in the reports of the working groups established for that purpose. Gabon is gratified. On the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, El Hadj Omar Bongo, President of the Gabonese Republic, stated: “The Security Council ... should be reformed in order to embrace the present dimensions of our Organization”. (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 36th meeting, p. 15) Restructuring the United Nations, we believe, should also include sweeping reform of its various subsidiary bodies, with a view to avoiding duplication in its functioning and programmes. To sum up Gabon’s position, we would like to say three things. First, it seems desirable and possible that the permanent membership of the Security Council could be increased without that body’s becoming unwieldy. Secondly, and on this assumption, Africa should at least have one permanent seat. Thirdly, that permanent seat should be rotated among all African countries according to modalities to be defined later. The complexity of this reform and its many political, economic and financial implications should not prevent us from laying out the configuration of international relations in the twenty-first century. Since a considerable number of Security Council decisions affect Africa, that region must not remain unrepresented on the Council, a body of paramount importance for the maintenance of 22 international peace and security. In the context of reform, Gabon subscribes to the objectives of rationalization and the clustering of activities whenever this enhances the effectiveness of the work of the United Nations. We must attach priority importance to the establishment of a reformed international system that can preserve the world from murderous conflicts that disrupt the economies of the warring countries — a system that can fight underdevelopment, preserve the environment and wage a worldwide combat against pandemics such as AIDS and malaria — in other words, an international system that can break down the barriers to harmony and development in a richly diverse world. It is certainly a daunting task, but only through these efforts and under these conditions can our Organization secure lasting peace in the world. Also high on the agenda is the resolution of problems relating to development and to social progress in a climate of peace, with full respect for fundamental human rights. Throughout the years differences of opinion have arisen with respect to these issues — particularly on how to resolve them. But given their decisive importance for our future and that of the United Nations, the international community must mobilize to act on them. More generally speaking, the time has come for us to work together to restore to the United Nations its political dynamism and the means it still lacks. Clearly, then, we have a great deal to think about. I should like now to touch on some matters of concern, such as peace and development — values and hopes that are shared by all. Dialogue is a prerequisite for — though not a guarantee of — achieving peace, which is indispensable for human society to develop and flourish. I refer not only to the civilized dialogue of diplomatic relations — which, of course, is essential, but rather to a dialogue that could give rise to a culture — the culture of peace. Indeed, when everything is based on violence, dialogue is impossible. As Boris Pasternak wrote, “One cannot win others over by violence”. The Bantu people value dialogue. On the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the President of Gabon, from this very rostrum, stated: “I wish to propose that a real dialogue, a permanent dialogue, be established, under the auspices of the United Nations, between Heads of State and Government of the South and those of the North. In that way, we may be able to find solutions to our common problems.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 36th meeting, p. 16) If each State were to refrain from attempting to impose its views on others, whatever the cost, and agreed that meeting the needs of peoples in a diverse and interdependent world requires dialogue and solidarity, then lasting peace and development can be achieved. That is why we must usher in a new era, the era of dialogue — genuine, honest and constructive dialogue. We must continue to work together on an equal footing, with respect for humankind’s interests and values. We must denounce and put an end to political violence, economic marginalization and social injustice. Dialogue must begin again: in Africa, in the Great Lakes region, in Liberia and Somalia; but also in the Middle East, in the former Yugoslavia, in Cyprus and in Chechnya — wherever it may be necessary. Gabon is contributing, and will always contribute, to building the vast edifice of peace. Our duty, indeed our interest — in keeping with the letter and the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations — lies in undertaking this task. History has taught us that no country can hope to remain an island of peace in a sea of poverty, tension and war. I believe that it is imperative to enhance the modalities of action available to the United Nations in the field of preventive diplomacy. In this connection, we must explore further proposals to equip the Secretariat with an Early Warning System aimed at preventing conflicts from erupting. Our faith in dialogue and our relentless pursuit of peace are the reasons why Gabon, whenever asked, has always agreed to engage in mediation to resolve domestic conflicts in neighbouring countries, with the particular goal of paving the way for a lasting peace. In January 1996 Gabon hosted a round table aimed at inter-Chadian reconciliation. In March 1996 we also enabled our Angolan brothers to strengthen the foundations for their future understanding, in the presence of several international observers. In both cases, the goal was to settle differences and clear up misunderstandings. What was important for Gabon and its President was to break through the wall of mistrust that barred the way to 23 reaching sincere and lasting agreements on solutions to such crises. We cannot claim victory. The peace process in most countries is lengthy, and reversals, which can delay or jeopardize its conclusion, are frequent. For this reason, the international community must encourage and support those brothers at war who have opted for the path of dialogue to build peace. It must also promote goodwill, which will enable the warring parties to resolve their conflicts. Africa provides numerous examples of this. The peace we seek requires not only dialogue but also other, sound initiatives such as disarmament and denuclearization. In this connection, we welcome the indefinite extension last year of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Likewise, we are proud of the fact that in March 1996, the African countries signed in Cairo the Pelindaba Text of the African Nuclear- Weapon-Free Zone Treaty on the denuclearization of our continent. Finally, we warmly welcome the General Assembly’s adoption, on 10 September 1996, of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. I signed it yesterday on behalf of my country. The Central African States have decided to harmonize their policies on conventional disarmament, with a view to establishing a register of conventional arms. The success of this subregional undertaking will depend not only on the will of the States of the subregion, but also on the political support and assistance of all States Members of the United Nations. Peace is also the result of confidence-building measures. The adoption of binding legal instruments and the effective use of preventive diplomacy will allow Africa to be exorcised of the spectre of death-dealing conflicts. The United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa is working towards that end. It just passed an important test with the solemn signature, on 8 July 1996, of a non-aggression pact during the thirty-second ordinary session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). This important preventive diplomacy measure shows that the Governments of the Central African countries intend to give pride of place to dialogue in the peaceful settlement of disputes among them. The signing of this pact by the Heads of State of the subregion proves the importance and priority that the countries of Central Africa accord to the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa. The Government of Gabon thanks the General Assembly for supporting that machinery through a trust fund, which generous donors, such as Japan, are beginning to pay into. In 1974, during the special session of the United Nations General Assembly, President Bongo, using an example from nature, and according to a Gabonese maxim, stated that: “When all the animals have been fed, calm reigns over the plains. (...) When the peoples of the earth have the vital minimum and maximum of dignity to which they are entitled, peace and harmony will finally have some likelihood of reigning on earth.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, sixth special session of the General Assembly, 2210th Plenary Meeting, para. 30) Development is certainly essential to peace. I would even go as far as to say that it is an intrinsic element of peace. Although Africa has been wrestling with serious economic, social and political problems for over two decades, it is safe to say that henceforth it will vigorously and courageously undertake the reforms needed for its recovery. However, African countries can make progress in this direction only if they are given adequate support by the international community, and by the developed countries in particular. The goals of sustained economic growth, social development, environmental protection and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms set in the plans of action of several international conferences have sustainable development as their common denominator. We are witnessing an era of radical change comparable to the Industrial Revolution of the nineteenth century. The globalization of the economy and of information and communications is changing relations among nations and increasing interdependence. While these trends inspire great hope, they also raise numerous concerns because the impact of globalization varies from country to country. Those in Africa, in particular, where most come under the category of least developed countries, are facing a worrisome economic situation. Despite declarations and programmes of action, resources are not forthcoming. 24 International economic and financial relations are changing radically and quickly, as is clear from the events of recent years. The establishment of the International Seabed Authority which is well under way and which we welcome; the creation of the World Trade Organization in 1995, which is accelerating the easing of restrictions on free trade and its globalization; and the gradual establishment of large regional blocs in various parts of the world are all features of the new international order. This situation, which is conducive to the emergence or consolidation of poles of integration, is far, on every score, from benefitting African States, whose income, which derives essentially from basic commodities, remains vulnerable to price fluctuations on the international market that are out of their control. In addition, our continent’s heavy debt burden means that our region is responsible for the greatest volume of reverse financial transfers due to debt repayment. Structural adjustment programmes, although beneficial, mean that populations have to make enormous sacrifices. These programmes are now being followed in countries undergoing political reorganization. Because of the way democracy works, it is assumed that citizens support the proposed programmes. Inevitably, this increases the demands made by society. For Governments, it is truly difficult to find a balance between these contradictory requirements. Of course, to remain credible partners we must abide by the requirements that go along with structural adjustment and the recovery of our economies. But we are duty-bound to include social needs when formulating and implementing reforms. The adoption of measures to promote sustained economic growth should not distract us from financing basic social and economic infrastructures such as roads, schools, hospitals, vocational training centres and so on. This financing is essential if we are to improve our populations’ living conditions and quality of life. As representatives know, the United Nations remains sensitive to this approach. Encouragement is needed, however, to ensure that this feeling is shared by its various agencies. Governments have been called on to include poverty- eradication strategies in general, people-oriented development policies. How do we do this? In establishing a favourable economic environment, the international community must support the efforts of all countries that are willing to take this course of action. As 1996 marks the beginning of the United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty, common objectives and the commitments entered into in the framework of overseas development assistance must now become reality. However, since 1991, this assistance has declined in real terms. Private capital flows have been exclusively focused in some 20 developing countries. So far, there has been no upsurge in private investment in countries of the African Financial Community (CFA), despite the considerable devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994. We hope that the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa recently launched by the Secretary-General will ensure that the United Nations system as a whole, including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, will help to mobilize the international community. Likewise, the international community must look into the crucial issue of debt, because it is jeopardizing the development of our countries. My country believes that new solutions to deal with debt, its conversion or refashioning in the interests of economic and social development are essential to alleviate its heavy burden and to make it compatible with development, in the spirit of consensus prompted by the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. We reject and label as unjust any discrimination or classification between developing countries, as this usually makes Gabon ineligible for much of the assistance it requires for its development. African peoples and Governments are not sitting idly by, waiting for assistance from the international community. They are tirelessly making tremendous efforts to overcome the crisis they face. I am pleased to mention in this respect the positive role that the Organization of African Unity is playing in backing our efforts. OAU, in submitting the Treaty Establishing the African Economic Community in June 1991 in Abuja to our Heads of State and Government for signature, understood that in the new international scenario, multilateral relations supersede bilateral relations. The Abuja Agreement entered into force in May 1994, and the first ministerial session of its Economic and 25 Social Commission will be held next November in Abidjan. Subregional economic communities are becoming stronger all the time. Outside institutional frameworks, these economic blocs are implementing common programmes on currency, payment methods, business law, the development of scientific and technological capacity, energy resources, the environment and so on. In the Central Africa subregion, our countries are involved also in subregional integration, which they see as a major component of development policy. It was in this spirit that the thirtieth summit of the Central African Customs and Economic Union was convened in Yaoundé, Cameroon, from 20 to 22 December 1994. The entry into force of customs reform on 1 July 1995 and the signing in July 1996 in Libreville of a text that establishes the Central African Economic and Monetary Community are designed to coordinate and strengthen the various regional integration efforts. These are the main ideas that Gabon wishes, through me, to contribute to our consideration of the major concerns facing the international community today. Indeed, some of these questions are far from being resolved. We hope that discussion of these issues will continue, without getting bogged down and with the participation of all, in order to find solutions that can provide equitable and comprehensive guarantees for the interests of all of our countries. These interests are, basically, participation in forging a future for the United Nations; the maintenance and consolidation of peace; progress; and economic development. Members may have noticed that I have dwelt on economic development concerns. I have done so not because I am biased, but because we in Gabon believe that true peace cannot exist amid poverty and destruction. As the Romans said, “Si vis pacem, para bellum” — “If you desire peace, prepare for war”. Today, on the threshold of the twenty-first century, and in both domestic and international contexts, we should say instead, “If you desire peace, prepare for development”, because development and economic progress has truly become the face of peace.﻿I should like first of all, on behalf of the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, to congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his election as President. We are pleased that Malaysia, an Asian country, has assumed the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. We believe that the rich experience he has gained in the course of dealing with international issues will crown the current session with good results. I should also like to express my gratitude to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, the former President, for his great contribution to the success of the previous session of the General Assembly. My appreciation also goes to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his efforts devoted to strengthening the United Nations. The building of a new world free from all forms of domination and subjugation, and aggression and war has long been the common and cherished aspiration of the world’s peoples. However, domination and subjugation, and subordination and inequality still predominate in international relations — even today, after the end of the cold war — and this constitutes a great challenge to the 20 realization of world peace and security and the democratization of international society. Recent developments in the international arena are eloquent proof of the fact that every country should firmly maintain its independence in order to safeguard its national dignity and rights and to build a free and prosperous world. For the Korean people, the last half-century has been a period of struggle and progress in their efforts to consolidate and develop our style of socialism and to reunify the divided country despite all kinds of challenges and difficulties. Though caught in the vortex of the complex and fluctuating international situation surrounding the Korean peninsula, the Korean people have been able to march forward continuously along the road to socialism — which they themselves chose — without any vacillation, disappointment or vicissitude, despite the fact that on an untrodden and poorly paved path, every step is difficult. This has been possible because they have firmly maintained independence in all domains of state-building on the basis of the Juche idea, the political philosophy of the Korean people. The Juche idea, based on the philosophical principle that man is the master of everything and decides everything, regards the popular masses as the driving force of the socio-historical movement, and identifies the people’s struggle for independence, sovereignty and development as the way to realize their independence. We have carried out our independent policy on the basis of the Juche idea, relying on the strength of our own people. In international relations, we have firmly adhered to the principle of not infringing upon the sovereignty of others and of not having our own sovereignty violated. At a time when international relations and the situation are becoming increasingly complicated, it becomes ever more important for a small country like ours firmly to maintain an independent stand. The Juche philosophy, created by the fatherly leader Comrade Kim Il Sung, the founding father of our socialist Korea, and our independent policy, based on this philosophy, have been credibly followed by the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il. The great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il has guided wisely all the affairs of our Party, State and army for more than three decades, and thus has consolidated and developed our unique style of socialism into an indestructible one. The leader and the people are firmly united in one idea and will, and the independent policy based on the Juche idea has deep roots in our territory. As a result, there has been neither a political vacuum nor instability in our society, and our style of socialism is advancing vigorously, regardless of what others may say. It is the greatest fortune and happiness for our people to have the respected Comrade Kim Jong Il, the outstanding politician and iron-willed brilliant Commander, as the supreme leader of the Party and State and the Supreme Commander of the revolutionary armed forces. Under the wise leadership of the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il, our people will make their country prosperous and realize the fatherly leader's lifelong teachings on reunification, convinced of the victory of our style of socialism. We hold that the question of national reunification should also be settled in the interests of the Korean nation in the context of the maintenance of international peace and security, based on the specific conditions of our country. In view of current realities in the North and South of Korea, characterized by different ideas and systems, national reunification through confederation is the only way to achieve a great national unity independently and peacefully, on the principle of neither side conquering or being conquered by the other. It is quite natural that the proposal for national reunification through confederation set forth by Comrade Kim Il Sung, the fatherly leader of our people, enjoys worldwide support. The pressing issue in the realization of national reunification through confederation on the Korean peninsula is the establishment of a new institutional mechanism for easing tensions and ensuring peace and security. Since the Armistice Agreement, signed in 1953, and the Military Armistice Commission, the executive body of the Agreement, remain paralysed by unilateral measures on the part of the United States, the establishment of a new peace arrangement is imperative in order to avert the danger of accidental conflicts, and for the maintenance of security on the Korean peninsula. Accordingly, in April 1994 the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea advanced a proposal for the establishment of a new peace arrangement to replace the outdated system of Korean armistice in ensuring peace and security on the Korean peninsula. It also advanced in February of this year an epoch-making proposal to conclude an interim agreement 21 between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States, a proposal that delineates in detail a new peace arrangement that takes account of the United States policy towards Korea and the present status of Democratic People's Republic of Korea-United States bilateral relations. The interim agreement may include issues concerning the management of the Military Demarcation Line and Demilitarized Zone; ways of addressing cases of armed conflict and accidents; the composition, duties and terms of reference of a joint military body; and other issues related to the maintenance of security and order. The United States and South Korean authorities, however, replied to our peace-loving proposal by aggravating tensions with large-scale war exercises and an arms build-up on the Korean peninsula. This situation urgently requires the establishment of a legitimate channel for contacts between military personnel, with a view to preventing accidental armed conflicts and the recurrence of war. It is on the basis of this consideration that the Democratic People's Republic of Korea proposed to the United States working negotiations for talks relating to the conclusion of the interim agreement, and the establishment of an interim mechanism responsible for its implementation, between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and United States military authorities, the real parties to the Korean Armistice Agreement. There is no doubt that the conclusion of an interim agreement between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States will constitute a breakthrough for the negotiations on the signing of an agreement aimed at the maintenance of a durable peace, and it will, in turn, eventually lead to the creation of an atmosphere favourable for the implementation of the Agreement on Reconciliation, Non-Aggression and Exchanges and Cooperation, between the North and South, adopted by the North and South of Korea. If the United States is truly interested in the maintenance of peace on the Korean peninsula, as it mentioned while proposing the “four-party talks”, it should be willing to withdraw United States troops from South Korea. On the other hand, the United Nations should take its own measures, without delay, to retrieve its name and flag from United States troops in South Korea, thus helping to establish a new peace arrangement on the Korean peninsula. The existence of the United Nations Command in South Korea constitutes a legal obstacle to turning the state of armistice into a durable peace and terminating the cold war on the Korean peninsula. The United Nations Command was not established by a United Nations resolution. It is only a product of the cold-war era, which came into existence through the abuse of the name of the United Nations. The United Nations Command has moved towards dissolution without any United Nations resolutions during the post-war period, and consequently only United States troops remain there today. This stark fact presents a vivid illustration of the fact that the “US-ROK Joint Command” is usurping the helmets of United Nations forces and the name of the United Nations. In the past two years since the adoption of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea-United States Framework Agreement, we have been sincerely fulfilling our obligations under the Agreement, as we have shown by freezing all of our nuclear facilities. For the full implementation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea-United States Framework Agreement, which is aimed at the fundamental resolution of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula, the United States should, among other things, fulfil its obligations, including lifting economic sanctions against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; and the present Democratic People's Republic of Korea-United States relationship of confrontation should be transformed into a relationship based on trust. There is also a need for several other countries pursuing unfriendly policies towards the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to change their attitudes, which would certainly be conducive to facilitating a resolution of the issue. We will make every effort to ensure peace and security on the Korean peninsula and in the region of North-East Asia. On this occasion, I wish to express my deep gratitude to the Governments of various countries, the affiliated organs and specialized agencies of the United Nations system, including the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, non-governmental organizations, and individuals for their moral, material and humanitarian assistance and encouragement to our people, which have been provided in the hope of removing, as quickly as possible, the damage caused in recent years by successive natural disasters. In order to eliminate the legacies of the cold-war era, which has been negated by history, and to enable all 22 countries and nations to exercise their sovereignty on an equal footing, international society should be democratized. The United Nations should, first of all, be restructured into a democratized Organization. The restructuring of the United Nations should be undertaken in a way that will fully represent the interests of developing countries, which form the majority of United Nations Member States, and also ensure the exercise of their sovereignty in the process of resolving major international issues. Only when the United Nations is restructured will it be able to do its part in the maintenance of international peace and security and ensure democracy and impartiality in its activities. The priority for the democratization of the United Nations is to enhance the authority of the General Assembly, the body in which all Member States are represented equally. We consider that issues relating to international peace and security should be brought directly to the General Assembly for deliberation, and that a new system should be established to endorse Security Council resolutions on the use of force, sanctions and peace-keeping operations. Such measures would enable the Security Council to give full consideration to the interests of Member States and thus prevent the adverse effects suffered by many countries as a result of the implementation of Security Council resolutions. The restructuring of the Security Council is the most essential element in the democratization of the United Nations. There are a number of issues to be resolved in restructuring the Security Council, and we consider it reasonable to proceed with the restructuring gradually, based on the principle of first finding issues on which agreement can be reached and achieving consensus on each of them. From this viewpoint, we believe that consensus may be reached on issues concerning the enlargement of the non-permanent membership of the Security Council and the improvement of its working methods, both of which have already been agreed upon in principle by Member States. In this regard, our delegation considers that it is possible for Member States to agree upon, above all, issues such as offsetting the imbalance in regional distribution through an increase of more than 10 seats in the non-permanent membership of the Security Council, to be allocated among the regions of Asia, Africa and Latin America, and through providing the countries concerned, including the parties to disputes, with access to informal consultations of the Security Council. Japan is taking advantage of the proposed enlargement of the permanent membership of the Security Council by attempting to become a permanent member even though, as a defeated State of the Second World War, it has failed to make an appropriate apology or provide compensation for its war crimes but, instead, is trying to justify them after more than half a century has passed. This makes a mockery of Member States, particularly the Asian countries. Disarmament — especially nuclear disarmament — remains one of the most important problems for the maintenance of international peace and security. We believe that the nuclear-weapon States should provide negative security assurances to the non-nuclear-weapon States, commit themselves to the non-use of nuclear weapons, and draw up and implement a timetable for their complete abolition. Despite the end of the cold war, regional, religious and ethnic disputes are being further aggravated in various parts of our planet, and consequently world peace and security are gravely disturbed and peoples are suffering from untold misfortunes resulting from them. It is our consistent stand that disputes between countries and nations should be settled immediately through dialogue and negotiation in the interests of the parties concerned and in conformity with international peace and security. At present, the maintenance of peace and security in North-East Asia is one of the most vitally important problems. In order to ensure peace and security in North- East Asia, the arms race and any attempt aimed at fostering military collusion with outside forces should be brought to an end. However, the military collusion between the United States and Japan is being intensified, and furthermore, the United States, Japan and South Korea are becoming less disguised in their attempt to build up a tripartite military alliance by repeatedly launching joint military exercises in this region on the pretext of North Korea’s so-called invasion. In particular, the arms race is further accelerated because the Japanese authorities are resorting to the unreasonable policy of trying to become a military super- Power, building up their arms and developing nuclear weapons. We strongly urge the Japanese authorities to end their confrontational acts against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, including an arms build-up under the veil of an “immediate response in case of emergency”. 23 The question of social and economic development is directly linked with international peace and security, and its resolution is therefore one of the important tasks before the United Nations. We hope that agreement will soon be reached on issues with regard to the implementation of the commitment to official development assistance and the alleviation of external debt, thereby facilitating the completion of the Agenda for Development at the earliest possible date in the Ad Hoc Open-Ended Working Group on an Agenda for Development. We consider that reform of the United Nations in the fields of social and economic development should be directed towards strengthening the agencies responsible for development cooperation under the United Nations system, thereby contributing to accelerating the implementation of the declarations and action plans for the development of developing countries. The application of “selectivity”, which relates development cooperation and technology transfer to questions of “human rights” and “terrorism”, should no longer be tolerated, and measures such as economic sanctions should be eliminated to ensure the economic development of Member States and regions. The Government of our Republic, which regards the man-centred Juche idea as its guiding idea, is providing all its people with political, economic and cultural rights and legally protecting the lives and dignity of human beings. We reject the politicization of human rights, which abuses the “question of human rights” in order to infringe upon the sovereignty of other countries, and we oppose all forms of terrorism jeopardizing human lives, as well as any activities encouraging or assisting terrorist acts. Today, all justice-loving and peace-loving countries and nations are making active efforts to establish a new world order and equitable international economic relations for the twenty-first century. We express our appreciation to the Asian countries in their efforts to ensure peace and stability and to achieve common prosperity in their regions. It is good that the Asia-Europe meeting, held early in 1996, agreed upon the strengthening of economic links and cooperation between the continents. We support the Arab and Syrian people in their effort to strengthen unity and cooperation, and to achieve a fair and comprehensive resolution of the Middle-East question, including the Palestinian issue, and we express solidarity with the Libyan people in their struggle to defend the sovereignty of their country. We appreciate the efforts of the Organization of African Unity to resolve social and economic issues and disputes in the African region. We express solidarity with the just cause of the Cuban people to lift the blockade against Cuba, and, with the Latin American people in their endeavours for peace and prosperity in their region. We will continue as before to develop relations of friendship and cooperation with all countries of the world on the basis of ideas of independence, peace and friendship and will endeavour to fulfil the obligations entrusted to us in the achievement of the common cause of humankind for world peace and security under the wise leadership of the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il. The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will make sincere efforts towards the successful outcome of the debates on the agenda items before this session of the General Assembly.﻿The agenda of the General Assembly at the current session reflects all the complexity of the stage mankind is now going through, the essence of which is the transition from bloc confrontation to multipolarity, economic interdependence and the democratization of international relations. I would like to emphasize that during the past year Russia made its contribution to the consolidation of this very trend. At the domestic level, this means an uncompromising continuation of the process of reforming society. The results of the recent presidential elections in our country have convincingly proved that Russia has decisively embarked on the road to the future. The majority of Russians voted for the continuation of economic reform, for a State of law and for a policy of openness and cooperation. In our relations with the other Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries, we resolutely oppose both the idea of restoring the Soviet Union, an idea based on the denial of the sovereignty of the Commonwealth States, and narrow-minded national isolationism. We stand for the voluntary integration and unification of the 13 members of the Commonwealth and hold that it should not be isolated from the rest of the world. We wish to ensure, and we shall ensure, that the CIS will become an important centre of world economic development and international stability. On a wider international plane, Russia is pursuing a policy aimed at establishing a new world order firmly based on the equality of all States, justice and universal security. However, the establishment of such a world order is a slow process, influenced by both objective and subjective factors. It is only natural that the end of the cold war provided a starting point for the transition to achieving a stable and predictable peace at the global level. But zones of regional conflict have expanded drastically. The upsurge of terrorism has caused universal shock, and the threat of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is emerging. The rejection of ideological, military-force confrontation, brought about by the end of the cold war, clearly proved insufficient to neutralize all these dangers and risks. Let us confess, at least to ourselves, that we will not succeed here unless, first and foremost, we overcome the inertia of the political mentality. Unfortunately, the stereotypes that took root in the minds of several generations of statesmen during the 40 years of the cold war have not yet disappeared along with the dismantling of strategic missiles and the destruction of thousands of tanks. In this connection, I would like to single out three conditions for the transformation of international relations during the post-cold-war period. First, we should see to it that the old fronts of bloc confrontation are not replaced with new lines of division. That is precisely why we accept neither the idea of the expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) military infrastructure to the area of the now defunct Warsaw Treaty nor the efforts to make that alliance the axis of a new European system. The enormous possibilities for economic cooperation and the spiritual enrichment of all the peoples of the continent can be realized only through the creation of a genuinely all-European system of international relations. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Lisbon summit must be an important stage in the construction of such a Europe. It is important to stress in general that the logic of a multipolar world in the twenty-first century should differ qualitatively from the schemes outlined by Metternich and Bismarck. The way towards the establishment of a system of comprehensive security is through learning the skills of equal partnership between the various “poles”, rather than through the revival of reflexes of rivalry and of balance of power. The threat of new lines of division is appearing not only in Europe, but elsewhere. The understandable intolerance of the extremism of certain Islamic groups and factions must not develop into a categorization of the Muslim world at large as an enemy of modern civilization. This is probably one of the pressing requirements of our day. Russia advocates resolute opposition to extremist and terrorist forces. They are especially dangerous when they enjoy State support, and no effort should be spared to prevent any State from rendering such support. This cannot be justified. I believe it is time a universal convention, covering all States without exception, were elaborated within the United Nations, denying political asylum anywhere to persons engaged in terrorist activities. However, no sanctions should be used as a means to punish peoples or as an instrument to overthrow Governments. It is far more effective to offer prospects for a better future to those who renounce extremism and accept the norms of conduct by the world community. The second condition for achieving a durable peace is the emancipation from a mentality based on concepts of leaders and followers. Such a mentality is fuelled by illusions that some countries emerged from the cold war as victors, and others as the vanquished. But this is not the case. Peoples on both sides of the Iron Curtain jointly strove to rid themselves of the policy of confrontation. Meanwhile, the mentality based on leaders and followers paves the way directly towards the establishment of a unipolar world. Such a world-order model is unacceptable today to the overwhelming majority of the international community. Finally, the third condition for the successful movement towards stable peace lies in the coordinated activities of the international community. Today, one of the most important tasks is the settlement of regional and local conflicts. In this regard, significant progress has been achieved recently. Peace agreements are being implemented in Bosnia. Initial important agreements have been achieved for a durable peace in the Middle East. We have managed to secure ceasefires in Transdniester, Abkhazia, South Ossetia and Nagorny Karabakh. The situation has improved somewhat in the conflict zones on 14 the African continent and in Latin America. But as yet no breakthrough to a durable peace has been achieved in any of these hotbeds of tension. The future of the Middle East is a cause for grave concern. Russia — one of the sponsors of the peace process — cannot accept the sacrifice to tactical considerations and internal political manoeuvres of the first fruits of the peace negotiations, which were won at such a great cost. The implementation of the Agreements reached is the only realistic basis for maintaining the peace process. The only possible way forward is to advance through negotiation on the basis of the principle of “land for peace”, Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), as well as resolution 425 (1978), which deals with Lebanon. It should be clear that the danger of reverting to confrontation becomes greater as the artificial pause in the peace process continues. When negotiators are silent, lethal weapons begin to awake. We appreciate the peacemaking efforts of the United States of America, the European Union, France, Egypt and other members of the international community and we support an even closer partnership in peacemaking. That is the most effective way to promote peace-building in the Middle East. The Bosnian settlement has entered a new and crucial stage since the elections of 14 September. The prospects for a lasting peace have become greater, but the risk of slipping into a new spiral of hostility and confrontation remains. I call upon all the Bosnian parties to take full advantage of the chance for peace created by the international community. At the same time, the United Nations, the OSCE, members of the Contact Group and the High Representative should immediately take a just and balanced approach to resolving outstanding problems. Assistance for the social and economic reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be intensified considerably and conditions created for the return of refugees. The time has also come to look beyond the horizon of the Paris agreements. There would seem to be a need for a large-scale and prolonged civilian peacemaking operation in which the United Nations and its specialized agencies will play an important role. The international military and police presence, to which Russia contributes, should remain a factor in the peace process for a given period after December 1996. The lifting of sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and the Bosnian Serbs is an indispensable condition for a successful peace in the former Yugoslavia. I hope that, in the near future, a Yugoslav delegation will take its place in this Hall, as it has at the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The programme of disarmament, security and stability for the twenty-first century should become one of the major axes of transition period strategy. The adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is one huge step in this direction. Russia has just signed the Treaty and we believe that it is of fundamental importance for all countries with nuclear capability to accede to it. However, it should clearly be understood that testing by any country of a nuclear explosive device before the Treaty enters into force will radically change the international situation and greatly prejudice the Treaty itself, and may compel many countries to revise their attitude to it. I should like to draw the attention of the Treaty’s opponents to the fact that it will not only contribute to the promotion of nuclear non-proliferation, but will objectively stimulate a gradual transition to nuclear disarmament on a multilateral basis. That is the purpose of President Yeltsin’s proposal to conclude a treaty on nuclear security and stability with the participation of all the nuclear Powers. We invite interested States to begin exchanging views on the issue. Our suggestion that nuclear arsenals be located only on the territories of the nuclear Powers in question remains current. The strengthening of the non-proliferation regime for weapons of mass destruction depends directly upon reliable prevention of the illicit traffic in fissile materials. The Moscow Summit of the Eight on Nuclear Safety and Security, convened as a result of a Russian initiative, contributed significantly to a solution of this problem. I call on all United Nations Member States to become involved in the implementation of the Moscow agreements. The rights of an individual should occupy a central place in any new concept of international security. Strengthening the international human-rights protection mechanism could ensure the observance of these rights. Its oversight and preventive functions should be consolidated and made more practical. However, legitimate efforts to ensure respect for human rights cannot serve political purposes. It is too delicate an area to be invaded by political speculation and objectives. 15 My comments apply fully to the protection of the rights of national minorities. The relevance of this problem is evident in today’s world. The complexity of the situation — let us be frank — requires a link between the protection of the rights of national minorities and observance of the principle of the territorial integrity of States. Russia is directing its policy at precisely such a link. My comments also apply to the Baltic States. While recognizing the sovereignty of those countries and their territorial integrity, Russia cannot remain indifferent to the discriminatory practices pursued against the Russian-speaking populations in Estonia and Latvia. While acknowledging measures that have already been taken to improve the situation, we believe that the United Nations and other international organizations should intensify and systematize their work for the protection of the rights of national minorities. How do we implement this strategy for creating a new world order? Despite the importance of bilateral relations and successful regional organizations, the United Nations remains the principal mechanism capable of ensuring the transition from a bipolar and confrontational world to a multipolar and democratic one. In such circumstances, the significance of the United Nations as a centre for coordinating the actions of States is increasing. During the formation of a multipolar system, the United Nations is called upon to serve as a kind of safety net, minimizing the destructive effects of the changes and directing them towards democratic evolution. The major task of the United Nations remains the maintenance of international peace and security. Furthermore, the principal tools available to the Organization must be political and diplomatic. I remind the Assembly of this fact because, during the past few years within the United Nations, a “sanctions syndrome” has begun to emerge: a desire to apply sanctions and other coercive measures more broadly and actively, sometimes ignoring existing political and diplomatic avenues. We are convinced that the United Nations should take such measures only in exceptional cases, after all other means have been genuinely exhausted. On the whole, there is a need to modernize the United Nations sanctions mechanisms. Today, for example, no specific procedure is provided for lifting sanctions, and, as experience has demonstrated, this is extremely important. The humanitarian damage caused by sanctions and the damage to third countries should be minimized. It is extremely important to emphasize that the United Nations must be maintained as the sole Organization that can authorize the use of force. Any actions of that nature taken in circumvention of the Security Council must be totally precluded. The United Nations can and must work purposefully towards establishing a new global legal framework. To give impetus to such work Russia has proposed the holding in 1999 of a third peace conference. This idea already has the support of a significant number of States. I believe that the time has come to discuss this initiative in a constructive and substantive manner. Past experience shows the need for new approaches by the United Nations to peacekeeping operations. We can already discern a pyramid regulating the relations of the United Nations with regional organizations. Without the development of such relations the United Nations may not be able to withstand the burden of peacemaking actions. I refer specifically to a pyramid, because it is of fundamental importance to do no harm to the Security Council, which bears the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace. We are counting on significantly more attention being paid by the United Nations to conflicts in the area of the Commonwealth of Independent States. So far, the major role in this respect has been played by Russia and its Commonwealth partners. In view of present circumstances, Russia calls on the United Nations to address the Afghan conflict. In that multinational and long-suffering country, a truly critical situation has arisen, and we have to do everything possible to prevent the country from disintegrating. The Afghan tragedy, like the endless series of internal conflicts in Rwanda and Liberia, is the most convincing argument for the development of a United Nations policy of national reconciliation diplomacy. To cope with all these tasks, the United Nations itself must be updated and adapted to these new conditions. Reform is long overdue, and it is not a single measure that is required but a process that encompasses the entire United Nations system. Reform of the United Nations requires clearly defined goals: first, that it carry out its activities in a timely manner; and secondly, that its structure be optimized in order to enhance the effectiveness of the Organization. 16 A great deal has already been done to implement reform. The Secretary-General has made a considerable contribution to these efforts, and Russia supports the continuation of this difficult and protracted effort. It is a well-established tradition to conclude statements before this Assembly by saying that the current session must play a special role in strengthening peace and that peoples are expecting us to make decisions. I am confident that this session of the General Assembly will live up to the expectations of Governments and the hopes of peoples: that all of us will take a new step in humankind’s difficult transition towards a world united in its diversity, a world that is open to universal economic and spiritual development, a world that promises security and stability — a world in which States cooperate on an equal footing. Let us work together for the sake of this goal. ﻿As the United Nations faces the beginning of its second half-century and the dawn of a new millennium, we look to the Organization for the continuing fulfilment of the high purposes of its Charter: the maintenance of international peace and security and the achievement of international cooperation in solving problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character. The experience of the past 50 years has shown that these goals are not easily attained. The end of the cold war has not meant an end to conflicts. The world has now entered a new era in which civil strife has replaced super- power rivalry as the main threat to peace and security. 7 We have yet to find workable solutions to many situations in which conflict continues to prevail. At the same time, the vast majority of mankind remains prey to poverty, hunger and disease. Such inhumane conditions serve as a fertile breeding ground for chronic economic and social degradation. You, Mr. President, face the enormous task of guiding us through this vast thicket of concerns. We are confident, however, that your well-known diplomatic experience and skills will lead us to new paths in the search for satisfactory solutions. As a son of Malaysia, a country which has long championed the cause of peace and development, you will undoubtedly bring to bear a sense of urgency to the discharge of the many responsibilities with which you will be entrusted. In so doing, you will build upon the efforts of your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, who spearheaded our thrust to reform and restructure the world Organization in order to make it more responsive to our needs in the post-cold-war era. He is deserving of our gratitude for his labour during the past year. I would also like to pay tribute to the Secretary- General for providing dynamic leadership to the Secretariat in these challenging times. The special commemorative meeting held last year to mark our Organization’s fiftieth anniversary provided an excellent opportunity not only for reflection on its past achievements, but also on its future direction. There was no dearth of ideas and proposals for strengthening the United Nations in order to help it face the challenges of the twenty-first century. It may be useful for us to look closer at some of those suggestions to determine their feasibility for implementation. It is an exercise in which some of our main Committees, our several working groups and the Secretariat may profitably engage so that the thinking of our Heads of State and Governments does not fall by the wayside, unheeded and forgotten. My own President, on that historic occasion, presented his concept of a new global human order in which the nations of the world could come together in a creative partnership for progress. This concept of partnership is predicated on the belief that we all now live in an interdependent world, in which, unless we learn to hang together, we will certainly hang separately. No one nation, no matter how militarily and economically powerful, can hope adequately to address the many complex cross-boundary problems which it now faces. States Members of the United Nations need to come together urgently to see how they can enhance cooperation in the various areas specified by the United Nations Charter. Among the immediate imperatives would be the creation of a partnership for peace, for, although the world has been mercifully spared another world war since 1945, it has witnessed a number of conflicts, both old and new, which continue to proliferate and to sap our collective strength. The causes of these eruptions are often deep-seated and not easily eradicated. They require careful study and attempts at resolution. Invariably, this will mean that the United Nations will have to go beyond traditional peacemaking and peacekeeping to the increased practice of preventive diplomacy aimed at pacifying potential conflict situations. The experience of past operations, both successes and failures, should be distilled with a view to garnering those lessons which may be of guidance in future cases. In this context, classical approaches to conflict resolution may have to be supplemented by new and imaginative ideas. Over the past few years, we have together made a laudable effort to enhance the Security Council’s capacity to deal with threats to international peace and security. To our credit, we have been somewhat successful in making the Council’s operations more transparent to the public eye. We have yet to decide, however, on the major aspects of resolution 48/26 on the question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council. Ideas abound on ways and means of achieving these aims. Our challenge is to reconcile these so that a consensus can be reached on reform. My delegation believes that the various proposals now on the table, such as those made by Belize, Italy and Malaysia, need to be further examined to determine both their political acceptability and feasibility. It is possible that, under the right circumstances and with the necessary political will, a reformed and more representative Council will emerge. A more democratic Security Council will command the respect and enjoy the confidence of United Nations Member States. In time, they may be persuaded to rely less on their own costly defence forces and more on the collective security system provided by the Organization. As specified by the Charter, the various organs and 8 agencies such as the Assembly, the Council itself, the International Court of Justice, the Secretariat and — under Chapter VIII — regional arrangements, can combine to form an effective bulwark against breaches of peace. During the cold war, some of these organs were precluded from performing their several functions. We must now seek to endow them with the machinery needed for their full operation. At the same time, we need to strengthen the partnership against the proliferation of all lethal weapons, nuclear and conventional alike. Following the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, we have the opportunity now to sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty which, while admittedly less than satisfactory, nevertheless offers a chance to proscribe the further development of dangerous weapons. Although considered less worrisome than their nuclear counterparts, conventional weapons are no less destructive of human life and property. With the ending of the East- West arms race, these weapons are being diverted by producer States to developing countries, where they fuel tensions and eventual conflict. These dangerous transfers must be closely monitored and a serious attempt made to convert the arms industry to development purposes. It is time that we see a dividend from our investment in peace. In eschewing the use of arms, we must seek to promote dialogue, negotiation and development to remove the root causes of all disputes and conflicts. The persistent eruption of violence in the Middle East demonstrates that, unless respect is shown for the fundamental rights of the Palestinian people, peace will continue to elude that troubled region. The peace process cannot, therefore, be allowed to die since without it there is little prospect of reconciliation among belligerents. Similarly, in the Korean peninsula and, indeed, in all areas where divisions among peoples exist, we must use our best diplomatic and political efforts to reduce tensions and encourage peaceful reunification. Our security concerns have widened in the post-cold- war era to other areas, such as the environment and drug- trafficking. As a small State and member of the Commission on Sustainable Development, Guyana looks forward to the review of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, which is due to take place in 1997. That meeting will provide us with an opportunity to assess the progress made towards implementing the commitments assumed both at Rio and Bridgetown. With regard to our efforts to combat drug-trafficking and abuse, we were pleased to participate in the high- level debate in the Economic and Social Council last June. We urge further international action on the measures agreed upon and also on the early establishment of an international criminal court which, in our view, will serve as an effective deterrent to drug-related crimes and to other violations against humanity. Having participated in the various summit conferences which have been held on the environment and development, population and development, human settlements, women and children and social development, my Government is also anxious to see these agreements fully implemented. We also look to the upcoming World Food Summit in Rome to build upon these existing commitments. Eliminating hunger and guaranteeing food security to all the world’s people are urgent imperatives for the international community. As a country which has suffered from the deleterious effects of colonialism, Guyana stands in solidarity with all States that now face the formidable challenge of development. We were thus pleased to participate in the recent mid-term review of the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. The results of that review gave reasons to hope that the African predicament can be overcome through a much-strengthened cooperation between African countries and the international community. We wish at this time to call on all States to intensify their efforts to support Africa’s initiatives to promote its development, for the success or failure of the African Agenda will be the success or failure of us all. These issues are at the heart of the wider and comprehensive Agenda for Development which we are in the process of elaborating. The endeavour we have made this past year to complete our negotiations on the content of this important document, while significant, points to the inevitable conclusion that we have yet to find the level of political will needed for meaningful agreement. We seem to be stuck in the confrontational mode set during our previous years of dialogue. My delegation is nonetheless of the view that, given the growing interdependence of Member States and the globalization of the world economy and society generally, there are now sufficient elements to form the basis of a global partnership for peace and development. The terms of this partnership could be drawn up by mutual agreement of the parties, specifying both the 9 obligations and the rights of each side. On the part of the developing countries, there would be acceptance of their primary responsibility for their development as well as the need for good governance. The developed nations, on the other hand, would commit themselves to supporting these endogenous efforts and to assisting in the creation of an international economic environment that would be propitious to success. Like the Lomé partnership that has existed for some time now between a large group of African, Caribbean and Pacific States and countries of the European Union, such an arrangement would provide a fair degree of predictability in its operations. Developed and developing countries alike would have the assurances of joint performance and common benefit. Eventually, this partnership would form the basis of a new and enlightened world order to which we have all aspired for many years. My President, Mr. Cheddi Jagan and the Government and people of Guyana are dedicated to the creation of this new global partnership. We were pleased to note that several international conferences — including the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at Midrand, South Africa, and the meeting of the Group of Seven in Lyon, France — have fully subscribed to the concept. We are therefore encouraged to think that the time has come for the establishment of a new global human order that would be based on respect for national sovereignty, participatory democracy, socio- economic equality, people-centred development and the realization of the economic, social and cultural rights enshrined in the United Nations Charter. We know that such an order or partnership — call it what you will — will not be easy to create and will require the adoption of a fundamentally new development paradigm which will bring together all actors, governmental and non-governmental alike, as well as multilateral and regional institutions, to work together for economic and social progress. At a symposium which was hosted in August 1996 by the Government of Guyana, ample consideration was given to ways and means of promoting this new order. In light of the changed political, economic and social circumstances of the world today, the conference agreed inter alia, that, since the enormous debt burden continued to inhibit development, serious consideration should be given to the cancellation of the debt of the least developed countries; a significant reduction in multilateral debt; and a reduction of the remaining debt stock to sustainable levels for the other developing countries, with debt-service payments limited to 10 per cent of exports, provided that 50 per cent of the savings are used for social sector development. There should also be a significant increase in transfers of long- term development finance to developing countries by, first, attaining the existing official development assistance target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product by mobilizing new and additional sources of finance; secondly, creating a global fund by mobilizing resources using new and innovative measures, such as the Tobin tax and environment-related levies from which Governments in both the North and the South would benefit; and, thirdly, introducing measures to stabilize the international monetary system and financial markets. In our efforts to promote the concept of the new global human order, we believe that serious consideration should also be given to the establishment of a fair and equitable trading system, including the provision of reliable access to the markets of the North. Such a system should take into account the special needs of small developing States; ensure fair and stable commodity prices; secure a renegotiation of the provisions of the World Trade Organization, especially with respect to trade and environment, intellectual property rights and foreign direct investments; a reduction and relaxation of conditions attached to future financial transfers; a new emphasis on the expansion of production and growth for sustainable development and a safe physical environment in the south; the development of the social sector as a focus of any new programme with emphasis on education, human resources, health and the development needs of women, children and indigenous peoples; and the enhancement of efforts to democratize and strengthen the United Nations and to restructure other multilateral financial institutions to respond more effectively to the challenge of people-centred development. In this regard, we must quickly resolve the financial crisis in which the Organization finds itself. Member States, particularly the developed countries, must honour their payment obligations so that the funding of all United Nations activities may be placed on a sound and predictable basis. These are some of the measures which my Government believes need to be taken urgently by the international community in order to promote global peace and security. Admittedly, some, if not all, may seem in the eyes of many to be too bold and far- reaching. Yet, if they are not implemented soon, we run the grave risk of jeopardizing the future of generations to come. We have the moral imperative to act swiftly to prevent the further decline of our peoples and, indeed, of our entire 10 civilization. Let us therefore resolve to make this fifty-first session of the General Assembly a decisive turning point in the life of the Organization and an opportunity for forging a just and enlightened partnership among the peoples of the world. ﻿Allow me first of all to convey to Mr. Razali Ismail my sincere and heartfelt congratulations on the occasion of his election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that thanks to his wise and able leadership and his extensive experience in the field of international relations, the proceedings of our session will be successful. Malaysia’s presidency of the General Assembly is clear testimony to the respect that Mr. Razali’s country enjoys within the international community, which appreciates the great and efficient role played by Malaysia at the regional and international levels in order to strengthen and consolidate relations among nations on the basis of peace, justice and cooperation. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the excellent relations of friendship and fruitful cooperation that exist between our two countries. I should like also to convey my sincere thanks to Mr. Razali’s predecessor, Mr. Freitas do Amaral, for his valuable efforts during his presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I wish to mention in particular his contribution to helping advance the process of reform of the United Nations, in order to make it more efficient in the light of the changes the world is witnessing. I should like also to pay tribute to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali and to convey to him our appreciation and support for his continued selfless dedication as head of the Secretariat of the United Nations. My delegation also appreciates his courageous initiatives, especially his Special Initiative for Africa, as well as his constructive proposals within the Agenda for Peace and the Agenda for Development. Tunisia, which supports the renewal of Mr. Boutros-Ghali’s mandate, stresses the importance of continuing the reform process undertaken in recent years. With the end of the cold war, the international community has entered a new era of international relations that aims to reject the use of force and violence as a means of settling conflicts, and to put an end to the arms race. This trend favours the logic of wisdom and moderation by resorting to peaceful means and preventive diplomacy, which offer possibilities for dialogue, concertation and negotiation to resolve conflicts, disputes and crises, however complex they may be. We welcome this emerging trend in international relations, which is a consecration of the principles and purposes of the United Nations as enunciated in its Charter. This trend must be strengthened and consolidated in order to eliminate sources of tension and defuse conflicts before they break out. The international community welcomed with enthusiasm the start of the peace process in the Middle East. This raised hopes of seeing the parties arrive at a true, comprehensive, just and honourable peace, thus putting an end to a cruel conflict that has lasted for almost half a century, during which time the peoples of the region have experienced the horrors of war, destruction, exodus and occupation. This peace settlement should be based on international law and United Nations resolutions, in particular Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), and on the principle of the exchange of land for peace. The Madrid Conference and the ensuing intensive negotiations, which resulted in the Oslo, Washington and Cairo agreements, led us to believe that the new peace process was finally on the right track. However, the agenda of the new Israeli Government has dashed the hopes of the peoples of the region. This agenda has indeed blocked the peace process on all tracks. An increase in Israeli pressures and provocations, which aim ultimately at imposing the policy of the fait accompli, has hindered the Palestinian people’s progress towards achieving their legitimate right to self-determination and to create their own independent State. The bloody events triggered by the opening of a tunnel under the Holy Mosque of Al-Aqsa emphasize the need for decisive international action to bring the Israeli Government to abide by the agreements concluded with the Palestinian Authority and to comply with international law regarding the settlement of the question of Palestine. 14 Tunisia is concerned by the stagnation of the peace process and its negative effects on building the future of the region on the basis of peace, security, stability and cooperation among its peoples. Tunisia considers that Israel must re-evaluate its present policy and commit itself to respecting the principles of the peace process and to implementing the agreements already signed. We also call upon the international community, particularly the sponsors of the peace process, to spare no effort in facilitating the resumption of the peace negotiations as soon as possible in order to avoid any risk of failure, which could affect the credibility of this process and lead to the return of confrontation and the escalation of violence, extremism and terrorism. We believe that confidence-building, good faith and a sincere commitment to a peaceful solution are necessary to advance this process. The commitment of all parties to achieving a just, comprehensive and lasting peace is essential to ensuring the security and stability of the States of the region as well as the coexistence of their peoples. As stated by President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on many occasions, Tunisia is committed to following the same approach it has taken since the beginning of the peace process, by establishing a close link between each step towards normalization and the progress achieved by the negotiations on all tracks. The establishment of peace in the Middle East depends on the maintenance of security and stability in the Gulf region. Tunisia, which is deeply concerned by recent developments in that region, calls upon all parties to show restraint, avoid any escalation and remain committed to international legality and to the implementation of all United Nations resolutions. Tunisia also reiterates its commitment to respect the sovereignty of all States in the region as well as their territorial integrity and inviolability. We also call for an end to the suffering that the Iraqi people have been experiencing for several years, and we hope that recent developments in the region will not aggravate this situation. Tunisia believes that the time has come to lift the embargo imposed on the Libyan people in view of the numerous positive initiatives taken by Libya, the League of Arab States and the Organization of African Unity, all of which aim at reaching a peaceful and just solution and at putting an end to the suffering of the brotherly Libyan people within the framework of international legality. Devoted to peace and a staunch supporter of just causes, Tunisia reiterates its solidarity with the United Arab Emirates and its full support for that country’s endeavour to recover through peaceful means, which include appealing to the International Court of Justice, the islands of Great Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa. Turning to the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Tunisia expresses its satisfaction at the return of peace to this country, and hopes that the recent elections will mark the beginning of a new era in which concord, understanding and common action will prevail, thus allowing the establishment of the foundations of the Bosnian State. We note that today the international community is giving priority to disarmament as the best means of ensuring and consolidating international security. Considerable progress has been made in this regard, especially in the area of controlling the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, in particular chemical and nuclear weapons. Tunisia welcomes the adoption by the General Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and its opening for signature. We hope that all Member States will adhere to this Treaty, in order to ensure its universal application. The Treaty’s conclusion, as well as the anticipated strengthening of the Biological Weapons Convention, due to be reviewed soon in order to provide it with a verification mechanism, will no doubt consolidate the progress made thus far in the field of disarmament. While expressing our appreciation for the declaration of Africa as a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone, we hope that our continent will be relieved of all weapons of mass destruction. We also reiterate our call to free the Middle East from all nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. While emphasizing the necessity of introducing efficient measures for ensuring a total ban of weapons of mass destruction, we believe that it is also essential to tackle the issue of conventional weapons, particularly the question of the accumulation and illegal trade in light weapons. This problem is not only serious but is growing more so every day, since these are the most commonly used weapons in current conflicts and recent terrorist operations. 15 In addition to its contribution to disarmament efforts, Tunisia has always supported United Nations peacekeeping efforts around the world. From the early 1960s on, it has taken part in United Nations operations in many African countries, Cambodia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and elsewhere. Convinced of the importance of these operations in maintaining international peace and security, Tunisia called on member States of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) to create special units within their armed forces for participation when necessary in peacekeeping operations on the African continent. While welcoming the decision of the United Nations on establishing a system of standby forces to act to intervene rapidly and efficiently in peacekeeping operations, Tunisia solemnly declares its readiness today to participate in that system, thus confirming our commitment to the Organization and to its role in the maintenance of world peace and security. Intolerance, racism, organized crime, the illegal arms and drug trades, the illegal traffic in human beings, terrorism and extremism in all its forms are all phenomena that have taken on a transnational dimension. The international community should ensure that appropriate solutions are found by means of a global approach based on the definition and implementation of international cooperation strategies in order to contain and eradicate these scourges. On many occasions and before various international and regional forums, my country has called the international community’s attention to the dangers of re-emergent terrorism and extremism, which threaten the stability and security of States as well as the safety of individuals. In this vein, Tunisia called for the conduct of a comprehensive and thorough re-evaluation of the attitudes of all parties to these scourges through the establishment of international rules of conduct with the aim of fighting all illegal activities, particularly those related to terrorism, in order to find efficient and lasting remedies to these problems and to eliminate their deep-rooted causes. Tunisia notes with satisfaction the increasing awareness of the need for the international community to join efforts in order to fight terrorism. We hope that the United Nations will adopt mandatory measures that would address this phenomenon by criminalizing all terrorist acts. We also hope that all member States will revise and adapt their relevant legislation to these measures. Tunisia’s steadfast efforts to consolidate the foundations of the country’s political institutions and the rule of law and to promote and protect human rights in their global dimension flow from a civilized, irreversible choice made in accordance with universal values. Eager to ensure respect for human dignity and to encourage ongoing development efforts to secure the well-being of all citizens, Tunisia has been able to reconcile, in a balanced manner, economic growth with the preservation of political, economic and social rights, the requisite foundations of democracy. Tunisia will continue to advance the causes of human rights in the world and to support the United Nations Voluntary Fund for technical assistance in the field of human rights, as well as the Programme of Action for the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education. We are persuaded that the dissemination of the culture of human rights will come to fruition only with the promotion of tolerance, which is an essential civilized value upon which are based all religions and human-rights ideals. Tunisia placed particular emphasis on tolerance in the reform of its education system, since it is convinced that global change, the progress of civilization and culture, as well as economic and social growth, will be firmly established only when coming generations are well-prepared and when the values of peace, democracy and goodness are complemented by a culture of tolerance. Economic globalization has opened new perspectives for international cooperation for development. But it has also had a negative impact on the economies of numerous developing countries that have been swept up in it without adequately preparing their economic and social structures. In the new era, Tunisia has focused on setting up a comprehensive and multidimensional development strategy designed to assist the disadvantaged in society and based on a broadened concept of human rights. Tunisia’s policy in this regard was based on a development approach aimed at providing equal opportunities to all levels of society and ensuring the well-being of all its citizens. The human dimension for which Tunisia has opted in defining its development policies has led to a deeper 16 spirit of solidarity within the population towards the underprivileged and vulnerable sectors and to granting them the highest priority. In order to achieve these objectives, President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali took the initiative of establishing an anti-poverty programme — the National Solidarity Fund — aimed at eradicating pockets of poverty and ensuring harmonious development for all social sectors. The debt burden in the third world is a very serious problem that cannot be overlooked, since it constitutes the main obstacle to their efforts to achieve a regular development pattern, free from any shortcomings or failure. While we welcome the Group of Seven’s economic communiqué on the issue of debt, we also stress the need to take appropriate measures to alleviate the debt burden of middle-income countries. The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization should implement the commitments undertaken by the international community in the framework of the major conferences held during the past five years. To this end, they need to mobilize the resources required to fund the programmes adopted by these conferences in the quest for sustainable development. We welcome the process of reform initiated by the United Nations with the aim of adjusting to the emerging international environment, improving its functions and assuming its responsibilities as the institution best able to maintain peace and security, on the one hand, and to pursue and support efforts on behalf of the economic and social development of the developing countries, on the other. To this end, it is equally important to continue the process of reform of the Organization with the aim of rationalizing and strengthening its role as the central pillar of international cooperation for achieving objectives and implementing programmes agreed upon by the international community, on the basis of priorities set by Governments seeking to eradicate poverty and to support employment and housing programmes, as well as those that provide basic services in the education and health sectors and offer protection to women, children and the socially underprivileged. These objectives can be attained only through the use of jointly agreed criteria based on transparency and democracy in international relations, and by rejecting any policy that involves a double standard. In order to preserve the prestige and credibility of the United Nations, it is necessary to implement the resolutions the Organization adopts and to follow up on the commitments entered into by States. We would also like to underline the extreme importance we attach to the restructuring of the Security Council, so as to enable this eminent body to play its key role in the maintenance of international peace and security, while taking into consideration the need for an equitable geographical representation based on new geo- political realities. I should like to recall in this respect that Tunisia supports granting Japan and Germany the status of permanent members of the Security Council, owing to the political and economic standing of both countries. In accordance with the consensus reached at the thirtieth Organization of African Unity summit meeting, held in Tunis, we reaffirm Africa’s right to at least two permanent seats on the Security Council that would rotate among all African States. Tunisia supports any initiative that takes into account these principles, and it expresses its appreciation for the initiatives and ideas presented by some States, in particular friendly neighbouring Italy, in order to achieve a comprehensive vision regarding reform of the Security Council. Finally, we believe that the success of our Organization depends on the determination of all Member States to act in conformity with the purposes and principles set out in the Charter, as well as on sincere political will, in order to allow our Organization to fulfil the aspirations and hopes of our peoples, who provide it the indispensable support it needs to guarantee its continued vitality, its renewed capacity and its durability. ﻿I would like to express my sincere congratulations, Sir, on your election to the presidency, and my best wishes for success in the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I wish also to thank your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his leadership and his personal contribution to the positive achievements of last year’s session. Last year we commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. That was a good opportunity not only for historical reflection and drawing lessons from the past, but also for setting out new priorities and tasks for the years to come. It is obvious that the United Nations, if it is to meet expectations, has to adapt itself to meet new challenges. Slovakia supports all efforts that will contribute to the enhancement of democracy, transparency and efficiency in the work of the United Nations. The need for the reform of the United Nations is also confirmed by its current difficult financial situation. This state of affairs can be resolved only if all Member States meet their financial obligations in a timely manner and pay their arrears, and if a new formula for determining a more adequate scale of assessments based on a country’s capacity to pay is adopted. In this context, Slovakia appreciates the European Union proposal for the financial reform of the United Nations and welcomes an open and pragmatic discussion in this regard. Let me stress that Slovakia, which has paid its contributions to the United Nations regular budget in full and on time, is also ready to bear its fair share of responsibilities in financing United Nations peace-keeping operations. Now, more than three years after our admission to United Nations membership, it is high time Slovakia was fairly allocated to an appropriate group for the financing of United Nations peace-keeping. Bearing in mind the available economic data and comparing them with those of several other countries of the Central European region, we are fully convinced that Slovakia should be allocated to Group C, and we see no compelling reason for further postponing this decision. Of course, such a decision would be without prejudice to a comprehensive review process of the method to be applied for the apportionment of the expenses of United Nations peace-keeping operations. But the contributions of any Member State for 1993-1997 should be assessed only on the basis of the scheme applicable in that period. In the context of United Nations institutional reform, great attention is focused on the Security Council. Slovakia supports Security Council reform and is of the opinion that the expansion of its membership should reflect the principle of equitable geographical representation. The membership of the Group of Eastern European States has recently more than doubled, and this fact should be duly taken into account in the Security Council reform process. Countries able to bear global responsibility should be granted the status they deserve in the Security Council. On the other hand, expansion of the membership should hamper neither the efficiency nor the decision-making process of the Security Council, so the increase should be a rather limited one. Several inspiring proposals have been submitted to the United Nations. Slovakia is of the opinion that we should look for the positive elements contained in those proposals and make maximum efforts aimed at reaching a generally acceptable solution. Practice has shown that an increased role for small and medium-sized countries in the Security Council can contribute favourably to the effective implementation of its decisions, thus improving the authority and the democratic character of that body. Slovakia actively supports the United Nations efforts to maintain and strengthen international peace and security. After three years of difficult negotiations, the Slovak Republic has finally become a full-fledged member of the Conference on Disarmament, thus filling the vacancy caused by the dissolution of the former Czechoslovakia. Slovakia, as a country using nuclear power solely for peaceful purposes, unequivocally supports all steps which prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and create conditions for their eventual elimination. Therefore, we welcomed last year’s decision of the fifth Review Conference to extend indefinitely the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This September we voted for the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Last Monday I had the honour to sign it on behalf of the Slovak Republic. We hope that it will soon enter into force and become law in international relations, thus making the world safer. The world community is also paying close attention to another important disarmament agreement — namely, the Chemical Weapons Convention. Slovakia has already ratified this important instrument and supports a speedy resumption of the ratification process so that it can enter into force. We consider the problem posed by anti-personnel landmines a serious one. We therefore welcome initiatives aimed at a ban on the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of this kind of weapon. For our part, we have already unilaterally declared a moratorium on the export of these devices, which cause casualties mostly among the innocent civilian population. Peace-keeping operations continue to be a major part of United Nations activities. Slovakia sees their further development through the enhancement of elements of preventive diplomacy, with a significant strengthening of their humanitarian dimension and a broader incorporation of civilian components at all stages. Practical evidence of Slovakia’s efforts to implement the basic United Nations goals is our participation in the United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium (UNTAES) and the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III). Slovakia, as a troop-contributing country, understands the significance of appropriate protection for United Nations personnel. Therefore, we have already ratified the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. The brave men and women in blue helmets deserve stronger protection. We call upon all other States which have not yet become parties to the Convention to ratify it as soon as possible. The European continent was the theatre of two world wars in the past. Therefore, it is of utmost importance to pay great attention to the issues of security and peace in this part of the world. Underestimating the gravity of the situation caused an immense human tragedy for millions of innocent people in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. The Dayton Agreements, and above all their successful implementation, represent a turning point towards a peaceful settlement of this traumatic conflict, not only for its direct participants but also in a global context. The international community also plays an irreplaceable role in this process through United Nations mechanisms. Slovakia is ready to get fully involved in the reconstruction of the destroyed economies of the countries of the region. We welcome Security Council resolution 1074 (1996), adopted just two days ago. Maintaining peace and security in other parts of the world is of no lesser importance. Preserving the continuity of the peace process in the Middle East is an important part of that. We must not allow the peace process to end and the results achieved so far to be destroyed. We observe with concern the growth of instability and the spread of conflicts on the African continent. Slovakia supports all efforts by the United Nations, the 2 Organization of African Unity and other organizations involved in the search for peaceful solutions for eliminating crises and violence. Slovakia supports the efforts of the Secretary-General to achieve a durable solution to the question of Cyprus that will guarantee respect for the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and unity of the country, in compliance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. My country is prepared to continue its mission of good offices by organizing meetings of the political party leaders of both Cypriot communities. As far as humanitarian assistance is concerned, we emphasize the need for the efficient mutual cooperation of all involved entities, together with a strengthening of the coordinating role of the Department of Humanitarian Affairs. Early warning as one element of preventive diplomacy and the rapid reaction of the international community in response to an emerging crisis situation are factors which significantly affect overall results. The role of the Department of Humanitarian Affairs in the reconstruction of territories suffering from military conflicts, including in demining, is important. International conflicts and internal strife are not the only threats to international security and the stability of States. Increasingly, acts of terrorism and organized transnational criminal activities undermine democratic societies and become their joint enemies. We strongly support international cooperation aimed at their suppression and elimination. We will study with interest several timely initiatives put forward during this General Assembly session, such as the initiatives of Poland, the United Kingdom and the United States. We are convinced that granting observer status to INTERPOL in the General Assembly will have a positive impact on the activities of both organizations in this field and will enable closer cooperation. Human rights will undoubtedly continue to be high on the United Nations agenda. Full respect for human rights is a prerequisite for freedom, justice, stability and peace. We commend the efforts to increase the efficiency of the United Nations human rights programmes, the work of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and his policy goal of transforming the Centre for Human Rights into an overall coordinator of human rights policy and action within the United Nations system. In less than four years of statehood, Slovakia has established a system of democratic institutions. All commitments under the relevant human rights instruments have been incorporated into its legislation. Our country respects the rule of law and guarantees all citizens within its jurisdiction respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including for the individual rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic minorities. We have established an inter-ministerial coordinating committee for women’s issues as an advisory body to the Slovak Government. It is designed to initiate and monitor the implementation of the conclusions and recommendations of the Fourth World Conference on Women. Family issues are very closely interlinked with the rights of women and the rights of the child. In today’s world, the family requires better protection and promotion. A strong family is a basis for a sound society. An international centre for family studies has been established in the Slovak capital. We are interested in signing a memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Slovak Republic and the United Nations on the promotion of family issues through the Bratislava International Centre for Family Studies and the United Nations. Sustainable economic and social development is a sine qua non for full enjoyment of human rights and the decent life of mankind on all parts of the globe. We welcome the new, integrated and comprehensive focus of the United Nations on these issues, as reflected in the series of United Nations conferences and summits held during the term of office of the current Secretary-General. He deserves his share of credit for their success. Now and in the years to come, we have to concentrate on the implementation and review of the recommendations, conclusions and plans of actions adopted in Rio, Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen, Beijing and Istanbul. We consider the convening of a special session of the General Assembly in 1997 to review the implementation of Agenda 21 a timely course of action. As a new member of the Commission on Sustainable Development we will pay special attention to these activities. The Economic and Social Council should play a key role in fostering international activities for sustainable economic and social development; its coordinating role is needed. We support efforts to enhance the efficiency of the Economic and Social Council and to streamline its procedures. Its sessions should be more focused on topical issues. The relationship with its functional committees requires further reflection and improvements. 3 Unnecessary duplication in the work of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council should be avoided. The consideration of economic issues in the Second Committee and social ones in the Third Committee seems nowadays an increasingly artificial separation. As these issues are interlinked, it would only benefit us to find a proper remedy for this artificial separation. This may require a new redistribution of responsibilities among the Main Committees. A close interconnection between environmental issues and economic development is reflected in the process of economic transformation in Slovakia. Economic development in Slovakia has reached a new level, and the foundations for the transition to a market economy are now firmly laid. This can be seen in the positive economic results achieved in 1995, when Slovakia ranked second among the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, with a real annual gross domestic product growth of 7.4 per cent. The Slovak economy is closely linked with the development of regional and world economies. As a founding country of the World Trade Organization, Slovakia is actively participating in the ongoing integration process and the formation of a new trade system on the regional and multilateral levels. In this context, the cooperation of the Central European Free Trade Agreement countries may be an example worth following in the integration of countries into the multilateral trade system and global economy. We see the Central European Free Trade Agreement not only as a vehicle to promote trade between its partners, but also as a step on the road to full integration into the European Union in the future, which is one of our foreign-policy priorities, together with membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. We welcome the positive results of the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), which stressed the need for the improvement of cooperation with the WTO and the Bretton Woods institutions. The reform of its intergovernmental structure, the focus on a smaller number of priorities with a view to integrating developing countries into the international trade system, should lead to a renewal of the status of UNCTAD in the global economy. The forthcoming Ministerial Meeting of the WTO in Singapore will be a good opportunity to further strengthen the Organization’s regulatory role. Slovakia also places particular importance on cooperation with other United Nations agencies. We are interested in actively contributing to the improvement of their functioning. I am convinced that the United Nations will prove its viability in the future, as it has so far, and confirm its unique role in the community of nations. The Slovak Republic is prepared to do its utmost for this goal.  ﻿Allow me first to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. I wish also to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, who presided over the fiftieth regular session of the General Assembly. The Assembly will agree with me that present-day international relations are characterized by two contradictory trends. On the one hand, there is an overriding desire and wilful movement to enhance international cooperation through the expansion of trade and investment. This trend is inextricably linked to the pursuit and maintenance of peace and stability. However, parallel with and contradicting this positive trend, we see a proliferation of high- and low-intensity conflicts in various corners of the world triggered by different causes. The pursuit of viable mechanisms to reduce and seek a permanent solution to these conflicts in order to promote international cooperation for the welfare of mankind remains, therefore, the key challenge that the United Nations will continue to face in the coming years. The Horn of Africa region remains, likewise, in the grips of this dichotomy. On the positive side, the countries of the region are committed to promoting regional cooperation, and continue to make strenuous efforts to this end. This is indeed manifested by the substantial progress achieved to date to revitalize the Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD), the regional instrument for achieving this objective. At the same time, the region continues to bleed due to grave internal conflicts within some member States. The painful bloodletting that has destroyed the social fabric in Somalia continues unabated; the internal conflict in the Sudan and the climate of regional tension created by the activities of the National Islamic Front (NIF) regime continues to deteriorate. The pursuit of peace and stability, with the attendant opportunities that this provides for economic and social development, have special significance for peoples that have suffered the physical and psychological traumas of war. In this connection, as the Assembly is aware, my country has borne the brunt of a long war which has exacted enormous human sacrifices, leaving its economic and social infrastructure a shambles. Accordingly, peace is crucial to the young State of Eritrea to heal the scars of war, to recoup lost opportunity and to reconstruct what has been devastated. But my Government’s profound aspirations and commitment to the maintenance of peace continue to be threatened by the hostile and unprovoked acts of the NIF regime in the Sudan, whose antagonism and subversion against Eritrea began soon after it took power in 1989. I hardly need emphasize here that the acts of subversion and State-sponsored terrorism are not directed against Eritrea alone, but have in fact been adopted as an instrument of policy by the NIF in its attempts to destabilize its neighbours and export its expansionist designs through subversion and violence. In pursuit of these aims, the NIF regime has propped up and provided safe haven to assorted terrorists from various countries and facilitated their acts of sabotage and terror. Khartoum’s barely veiled hand is discernible from the litany of border incursions by mercenary groups in a number of countries in the region and acts of naked terror in the international arena. I must stress here that my Government has left no stone unturned in its efforts to reduce and stave off the climate of tension provoked by the acts of the NIF regime. As a matter of fact, for five long years my Government pursued a policy of constructive engagement, patiently and tirelessly, hoping against hope that the authorities in Khartoum would turn back from the dangerous alley that they are heading for. Unfortunately, the language of moderation and peace only whetted the NIF’s appetite to spread its subversive tentacles deeper and wider. In the event, Khartoum not only refused to heed these continuous appeals, but escalated its overt acts of terror and subversion beyond limits. Another grave matter I wish to bring to the attention of this Assembly is the maltreatment of Eritrean refugees at the hands of Sudanese authorities. The NIF regime not only is doing whatever it can to obstruct the organized repatriation of the refugees to their home country, but is engaged in reckless and deplorable acts to drive a wedge between the refugees and the people of the Sudan, who have offered commendable hospitality during the long years of war. And when this policy did not work, the NIF regime began subjecting the refugees to arbitrary imprisonment, torture, and banishment after confiscation of their property by its security authorities. Moreover, young refugees were forcibly conscripted and given military training to be deployed in subversive activities across the border. Organized repatriation of these refugees, the pilot phase of which has been successfully achieved, is impeded by the lame excuses the NIF fabricates. All these pressures have caused the refugees to return home spontaneously at high risk. All these acts of hostility perpetrated by the NIF regime to implement its designs of destabilizing neighbours should surely be of grave concern to this Assembly and the international community at large, given their wider regional security ramifications. Allow me further to recall the incident that erupted between Eritrea and the Republic of Yemen in December 1995, following the latter’s occupation of the Eritrean archipelago of Hanish-Zuqar, at the southern entrance to the Red Sea. Perhaps due to its sensitivity, the incident aroused immediate international concern and mediation endeavours. The Government of Eritrea, which all along had sought international arbitration to the dispute, promptly accepted, with full appreciation, the mediation initiatives of the Ethiopian and Egyptian Governments, and later that of the United Nations Secretary-General, which greatly helped to defuse tensions and paved the way for the peaceful handling of the dispute. When facilitation by the French Government was proposed, the Eritrean Government accepted it wholeheartedly. These decisions were taken by the Eritrean Government against a background of mendacious accusations and irresponsible campaigns by the Yemeni authorities to escalate the situation. The incident was also fanned by those in certain quarters who sought to serve their vested interests in the troubled waters. However, genuine desires and a sincere political will prevailed. Ultimately, restraint and careful handling of the issue, in addition to positive and constructive regional and international intervention, culminated in the Agreement on Principles, signed by both parties on 21 May 1996 in Paris. In this Agreement, both the State of Eritrea and the Republic of Yemen unequivocally expressed their desire to settle their dispute over the Hanish-Zuqar archipelago by the verdict of a court of arbitration. Developments since the signing of the document could be considered generally positive and encouraging. However, allegations were made by the Republic of Yemen that Eritrean forces occupied the island of Lesser Hanish on 10 August 1996, and the matter was hastily referred to the Security Council. The fact of the matter was that units of the Eritrean forces were on that island both before and after the signing of the Agreement on Principles on 21 May 1996. Despite this truth, the Eritrean Government withdrew its forces as a gesture of goodwill and in the 2 interest of the smooth progress of the arbitration process and to preserve and promote the peace of the region. The Eritrean Government has time and again affirmed its adherence to the Agreement on Principles of 21 May 1996, and expressed its commitment to abide by the decisions of the court of arbitration. I am pleased to underline that the subsidiary agreement reached between the two sides in Paris last week, on 3 October, will now allow for the proceedings of the court of arbitration to start early next year. The agonizing and intractable reality in Somalia cannot but impel the international community to search for ways and means of expediting an end to this long, drawn- out tragedy. The complexity of the situation is too apparent to require more elaboration here. But it is clear that no amount of well-meaning external support will succeed in restoring normalcy to Somalia unless the Somalis themselves take stock of the senseless bloodshed that has torn the country apart and produce what it takes to forge peace and national reconciliation. Admittedly, the countries of the region could have played a more catalytic part in this multi-pronged effort. The lack of a consistent and coordinated regional and international initiative, however, may entail more preoccupying negative developments. Indeed, there are indications these days of a growing involvement of various external actors that seem bent on exploiting the vacuum to promote their hidden agendas. Somalia is in fact drifting towards becoming fertile ground for extremist groups. For the sake of the Somalis, and in the interest of regional peace and stability, it is vital that these trends be checked before it is too late and that the regional initiative be resuscitated. The recent developments in the Middle East which appear to have cast some shadows on the Oslo agreement are naturally a matter of preoccupation to all those who wish to see an enduring settlement to the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Whatever the shortcomings of the agreement, there can be no alternative to the peace process. My Government therefore appeals to both sides to persevere in the process of dialogue and negotiations so that a lasting peace that ensures the well-being of all the peoples of the region will be assured. In conclusion, we share the views of many Member States on the imperative of restructuring the decision- making bodies of the United Nations, particularly the Security Council. The Security Council continues to play a vitally important role in the maintenance of international peace and security. It is my delegation’s belief that now is the opportune moment to revitalize it, make it more democratic and improve its value, effectiveness and legitimacy so as to make it reflect the universal character of the Organization. Powerful and convincing arguments have been made by many speakers to the effect that, at present, the Security Council is neither equitable nor representative. The circumstances of international politics have altered so fundamentally that there are compelling reasons for change. In spite of the broadly shared wish for reform, discussions so far have not really come close to the general agreement needed. It is our firm belief that flexibility and compromise will be necessary. There are a number of interesting elements in the proposals, to which thorough attention should be given so that we can try to bring about the necessary change.  ﻿Allow me, Sir, to offer you my warm congratulations on your election as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I am very confident that, with your skill and experience, you will provide the leadership and direction we require to ensure a successful outcome to the work of the forthcoming session. You have the assurance of our full support. I have the honour to address this Assembly on behalf of the European Union. Last year we gathered here on the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. The speeches we heard then reflected a dual message: a conviction that the United Nations remained more than ever indispensable in a world of increasing interdependence among nations; and concern that the Organization adapt and renew itself to serve the needs of a new century. There was a clear call that the non-payment of dues owed to the United Nations — this poison in the system — should cease. The Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations rightly anticipated “a sharp increase in the level of expectations of the United Nations” (resolution 50/6). It called for the occasion to be seized “to redirect it to greater service to humankind, especially to those who are suffering and are deeply deprived”. We have no need at the outset of the fifty-first session to seek a new agenda. Cooperation through the United Nations continues to offer the world the irreplaceable means necessary for advancing peace, economic and social progress, human rights, democracy and caring humanitarian action. To retain the Organization’s effectiveness, we need, together with adequate resources, a continuing modernization of the structures and working methods of the institutions of the United Nations. What we must do now is sharpen the focus on common priorities to achieve this and get on with the decisions to give them effect. Globalization is one of the defining characteristics of our age. With it has come the realization that our peace and prosperity cannot be assured by States, or even regions, acting in isolation. The European Union itself embodies the principles of cooperation, interdependence, human rights and democracy. The spirit of cooperation is also the starting point for the contribution that the Union is making at the global level, where the enormous benefits that can be achieved by working together constitute the greatest, and potentially the most rewarding, challenge that faces mankind today. The very interdependence of our peoples, nations and regions that leads us to assemble here as the United Nations should serve to underscore the unique role and potential of this Organization, the sole such universal body of global outreach. Has it done so? Have we strengthened the potential of the United Nations, or yet sufficiently exerted the energy and imagination necessary to use the opportunities it offers us? We were able last year to reflect with justifiable pride on 50 years of substantial success by the United Nations. Our celebration was tempered, however, by a sobering awareness that the level of conflict, economic disparities and humanitarian crisis in our world was increasing, not diminishing. We had witnessed a series of open and bloody intra-State conflicts and the resurgence of old antagonisms in many regions of the world, resulting in death and injury to millions of innocent civilians, many of them women and children; an increase in the already high number of refugees; gross and flagrant violations of human rights on a massive scale; and the widespread incidence of hunger, disease and homelessness. At the same time, threats to the 7 environment and the scourges of drugs and terrorism were among a new range of risks and challenges that required concerted international action. The urgency and complexity of these and other problems facing the United Nations at a time of great political, economic and technological change led us to a common call for a United Nations revitalized and more effective in dealing with these new needs. Some progress has been made in the past year in rationalizing United Nations activities in the economic and social fields and in enhancing efficiency and better management. This deserves to be recognized. But we are still far from the overall results needed. Serious new efforts are required from Member States and the Organization. The multilateral approach which the United Nations embodies is under threat if we cannot respond to the challenges before us. We need a renewed commitment to collective action, with strong vision and leadership sustained by the political will of each Member State. The European Union renews again today its commitment to the United Nations. We are determined to equip it for the tasks of a new century. Recent experience has taught us that we need a more encompassing strategy for conflict prevention and crisis management. This strategy has to address both the causes and the consequences of conflict. The Agenda for Peace was a well-considered and timely initiative of the Secretary-General which points the way forward. Substantial lessons from the United Nations experience of peacekeeping have indeed been learned. They should be applied in developing this new strategy. To secure peace, the root causes of conflict have to be tackled. Too often the United Nations is called upon to react to the appalling aftermath of conflict. Prevention is a far better strategy. Improved early warning through more effective and internationally coordinated efforts which also take account of economic and social factors can do much to improve the quality of the response. There needs to be an increased emphasis on preventive diplomacy and on a more informed, better-planned and rapid response to crises, including improved procedures for consultation with troop-contributing countries. Existing mechanisms for mediation, conciliation and good offices could be more vigorously and imaginatively exploited. Post-conflict rehabilitation has to be more comprehensive and coordinated to address the wider issues of humanitarian assistance, economic and social reconstruction and respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Even with an improved approach to early warning and conflict prevention, peacekeeping operations will still be necessary. The experience of some recent difficult operations should not detract from the record of successes in United Nations peacekeeping. The support of the European Union for the peacekeeping role of the United Nations is undiminished. The member States of the Union, my own included, have consistently provided resources and personnel to United Nations peacekeeping. The Union today provides the majority of personnel for current operations and contributes some 37 per cent of the United Nations peacekeeping budget. This has involved sacrifices, including at times the ultimate sacrifice. On behalf of the European Union, I pay tribute to the memory of United Nations peacekeepers who have laid down their lives in the cause of peace and to the over 25,000 peacekeepers currently serving in 17 United Nations peacekeeping operations. Too often, the United Nations has been called upon to intervene in conflict situations without a clear mandate, adequate resources or the consistent political support required to have any prospect of success. Too often, the United Nations has been confined to policing indefinitely a fragile and hostile peace between parties that, even after decades, show no real inclination to assume responsibility for securing a resolution of the conflict. This wastes much-needed United Nations resources. But more seriously, it undermines confidence in the United Nations. If we apply our energies to developing new strategies for conflict prevention and crisis management, we will have done much to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations in this core area. The European Union, for its part, will work to strengthen and reinforce this vital role of the Organization. The United Nations cannot be expected to stand alone in conflict prevention and the maintenance of world peace. The European Union welcomes the trend towards closer cooperation and mutual support between the United Nations and regional organizations. In Europe, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) has been designated as a regional arrangement under Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. The United Nations and the OSCE are already cooperating closely and coordinating their efforts. Within the OSCE area, the European Union is working with all the OSCE participating States to develop further the concept of mutually reinforcing institutions so as to enhance European security and stability. The Union encourages and supports the similar efforts being made in other regions. It is important that the United Nations benefit 8 from, and build on, these initiatives. The meetings of regional organizations that the Secretary-General has convened in recent years are an important innovation in this regard. Since its inception, the United Nations has played a central role in the longer-term strategies for conflict prevention, in particular in the fields of disarmament and arms control, human rights and equitable economic and social development. The European Union attaches the highest priority to progress in the fields of arms control and disarmament. If we mean to invest in peace, then we must all become advocates of disarmament. Today was a particularly good day for disarmament and for the United Nations. It was my privilege this morning to join with other colleagues in the European Union in signing, on behalf of our respective States, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. The European Union would urge all States to sign and ratify this important Treaty. We must respond to the clear wish of all our peoples to live in a world in which the threats posed by nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction can be reduced and ultimately removed. We have made a start with Conventions banning chemical and biological weapons. The next step is the start of negotiations for a cut-off treaty. The European Union will also give priority at this session to measures to deal with the menace of the indiscriminate use of anti-personnel landmines. Today, there are over 110 million landmines in our earth, mostly in developing countries. They kill, indiscriminately, 26,000 people every year, mostly civilians, many of them women and children. Anti-personnel landmines have disabled a quarter of a million people. It is an incredible and obscene irony that at a time when the United Nations, with the active support of the European Union and other States, is continuing its vital work of mine clearance, further millions of anti-personnel landmines are still deployed annually. The European Union has endorsed the appeal made by the Security Council to all States to contribute to the Voluntary Trust Fund for Assistance in Mine Clearance. We call upon all Member States of the United Nations to join with the European Union, in a spirit of common humanity, to put an end to indiscriminate killing and maiming by anti-personnel landmines. Conventional arms control, at both a global and regional level, also requires our attention. We now have the opportunity to overcome the mistrust and insecurity that previously predominated in arms-control negotiations and to create a climate of transparency and cooperation leading to arms reduction. This process is under way in Europe. We would hope to see it develop in other regions of the world. Failure to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms is a major cause of conflict today. Many intra-State conflicts arise from the denial of basic human rights to minorities and in some cases to whole populations. The democratic right of all citizens to participate freely and openly in the governance of their societies continues to be under threat or denied. The battle for the economic and social emancipation and empowerment of women has begun. This is an issue of special importance for the European Union. The United Nations has since its inception been in the vanguard in the promotion and defence of human rights and democratic freedoms. Its record is indeed a proud one. The European Union will continue its support, both material and political, for the vital ongoing work of the United Nations in this area. The Union believes it is essential to secure adequate financing from the regular budget for the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights. The European Union fully supports the Declaration and Plan of Action adopted by the recent World Congress Against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children. This is a timely initiative in tackling this appalling abuse, which affects all regions in the world. Despite decades of effort and resources, the poverty gap has widened, not narrowed. For many of the least- developed nations, their development is regressing rather than advancing. The time is long overdue to mount a new global offensive against poverty, a major cause of instability and conflict. We will give major priority to the war against poverty and the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s initiative. A more vigorous effort is needed to carry through major programmes for the economic and social advancement of women, as are more emphasis and action on the gender perspective across the whole spectrum of development. The European Union recognizes the central role which the United Nations system, through its specialized agencies and programmes, has played and will continue to play in the humanitarian, economic and social fields. We need to reform and revitalize the United Nations 9 system in this area to ensure a real and lasting impact on sustainable development. Our aim is reform, not the retrenchment of resources. The discussions on “An Agenda for Development” have begun this process. A sense of urgency is required to give impetus to our work during this session of the General Assembly and to build upon recent progress. The European Union will pay particular attention to the follow-up to resolution 50/227 concerning the revitalization of the system. Effective follow-up to the conclusions of the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) substantive session on humanitarian assistance will be vital to achieve a stronger and more coordinated strategy within the United Nations system to deliver effective programmes where they are most needed. We must also see progress in coordinating the outcome of recent United Nations conferences, including the Habitat II Conference in June. The European Union welcomes the renewed emphasis of ECOSOC on the global threat posed by narcotic drugs. The Union is giving high priority to measures which will improve the coordination of efforts to fight this threat, which undermines the very fabric of all our societies. The success of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) conference in Midrand is welcome in that it underlines that reform and progress in renewing the system are possible. The forthcoming special session on Agenda 21 and the follow-up to the Rio Conference will allow us to give fresh impetus to action on development and environmental issues and renewed support to the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development. The European Union invites all Member States to join in a new global partnership for development. It is in the common interest of the peoples we represent to forge a global alliance against poverty, hunger, disease, ignorance and deprivation. This is a key challenge for the United Nations and its Member States. Our endeavour to revitalize and reform the United Nations system is taking place against the backdrop of a serious financial crisis. This continuing crisis undermines the necessary climate of partnership and the capacity to implement current programmes in many areas. It distracts efforts and attention from the real tasks of the moment. The European Union has repeatedly stated that all Member States have an obligation under the Charter to discharge their arrears and pay their assessed contributions to the regular and peacekeeping budgets promptly, in full and without conditions. The States members of the European Union, which contribute over 35 per cent of the regular and over 37 per cent of the peacekeeping budgets have consistently honoured this obligation. They believe that to resolve this crisis, all States Members of the United Nations must do likewise. The Union recognizes the need for financial reform to secure the long-term financial stability of the United Nations. It has therefore put forward a set of proposals aimed at achieving comprehensive financial reform, including adaptation of the scale of assessments to make it more genuinely reflective of the capacity to pay. This session should see resolute efforts to negotiate solutions. The conflicts and tensions in today’s world are reflected in the memorandum distributed as part of this speech, in which the European Union outlines its position on issues facing the world community. I would like to draw attention at this point to some critical areas of major concern to the European Union: the former Yugoslavia, Cyprus, the Middle East peace process and the Great Lakes region of Africa. Europe has not been spared the tragic ethnic conflict witnessed in other regions. The progress we have made in bringing an end to the savage war in the former Yugoslavia has required the combined efforts of the international community and a variety of international and regional bodies, including the United Nations, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union. However, we still need to address the massive humanitarian and reconstruction needs left in its wake, as well as the more difficult and long-term task of rebuilding trust, security and peace among the peoples of the region and ensuring full respect for the territorial integrity of the various sovereign States. The European Union and its member States remain committed to full implementation of the provisions of the peace Agreement for Bosnia and Herzegovina and to making a very substantial contribution to the concerted effort being made to assist the parties who have primary responsibility for this implementation in living up to their obligations. 10 There are daunting tasks ahead. The immediate focus is on the follow-up to the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina which took place on 14 September 1996 under the supervision of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. On this occasion, I would acknowledge in particular the very important contribution that was made by the Implementation Force and the United Nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the International Police Task Force, in ensuring that the elections were conducted peacefully. The Union fully supports the strategy of the High Representative, Mr. Carl Bildt, in regard to establishing the common institutions of the State after the elections. He has the full assurance of our support for his leading role in the implementation process. We do not underestimate the enormity of this task. If we are to succeed in maintaining peace, it is essential that the international community closely coordinate its activities and that all parties cooperate fully in the process. The European Union will work closely with the United Nations and the international community to achieve an effective long-term strategy to secure peace and self-sustaining stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this context, the Union notes that parties have agreed to hold further elections in September 1998. An important focus during the intervening period will be assisting the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in facilitating the return of the many thousands of refugees and displaced persons who have not yet been able to go back to their homes. Ultimately, our aim must be a return by all the former Yugoslav republics to the community of peaceful and democratic nations. The basic agreement for Eastern Slavonia must be implemented in full and the return of refugees and displaced persons to this region completed. Such persons must be ensured of full protection for their human rights. The Union acknowledges the important work of the United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium, which enjoys our full support in its efforts. The Union continues to attach great importance to full cooperation with the work of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. This work reflects the resolve of the international community to bring to justice those responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity. It is vital to efforts to develop justice, confidence and democracy in the region that all parties fulfil the commitments they have made to hand over indicted persons. The European Union stresses once again that the current status quo in Cyprus is not acceptable. It reaffirms its strong support for the efforts of the Secretary-General of the United Nations aimed at a negotiated and lasting solution to the Cyprus question which will respect the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and unity of the country in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. The European Union welcomes the appointment of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Han Sung-Joo. The Presidency of the European Union has also nominated a Special Representative on Cyprus. The Middle East peace process, based on the principles already accepted by all parties under the Madrid and Oslo frameworks, is the only path to security and peace for Israel, the Palestinians and the neighbouring States. The Florence European Council of June 1996 reaffirmed the approach of the European Union. It further stated that peace in the Middle East was a fundamental interest of the European Union. The Union is therefore concentrating its efforts on encouraging all parties to re-engage themselves in this process and to respect and implement fully all the agreements already reached. We wish to make an active contribution to promote this process in both the political and economic fields and to build upon the important work which has been done over the years by the United Nations in the interests of a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East. We would invite all Member States to do their utmost to nurture this process and give encouragement to all parties to move forward. The Union is deeply concerned that the current lack of progress in negotiations should not undermine the prospects for peace. The progress already achieved should be advanced by further agreement on concrete issues. We hope that the recent meeting between the Israeli Prime Minister and the Palestinian President will have positive results for the peace process. We call upon the Israeli Government not to pursue the extension of settlements. Continued expansion of settlements does more than any other issue to erode Palestinian confidence in the peace process. It undermines the ability of both the Palestinian Authority and society at large to deter extremists and trouble-makers. As the largest donor, the Union remains committed to providing assistance to the Palestinian people and urges all parties concerned to contribute to the economic revival of the West Bank and Gaza. This endeavour will hopefully be rendered more effective by the recent relaxation of the border closures, and we hope that this encouraging trend will continue. It is important that all tracks of the peace process move forward. We favour an early resumption of negotiations between Syria and Israel, and have reaffirmed our support for the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of Lebanon and for early negotiations involving that country. The creation of the Middle East peace process has been a historic breakthrough in the long-standing search to bring to the peoples of the region the lasting and just peace which they clearly want and, indeed, they deserve. The European Union will intensify its efforts to ensure its success. The European Union shares the heightened concern of the international community at the grave threat to peace and stability in the Great Lakes region posed by the current situation in Burundi. The United Nations and the European Union are already involved in an international effort to cope with the aftermath of the Rwanda tragedy — the major humanitarian crisis, the serious refugee problem, and the ongoing process of regional reconstruction. But at the same time the area is again facing the prospect of bloody civil war and genocide, in Burundi. We cannot allow this to happen. The European Union strongly supports the efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity to restore dialogue and democracy in Burundi. It acknowledges in particular the pivotal role being played in this endeavour by former President Nyerere, supported by other regional leaders. Their efforts are assisted by the special envoys of the European Union and the United Nations, and other parties. The international community, through Security Council resolution 1072 (1996), has sent a clear message to the parties involved that there must be an end to all violence and an early beginning of unconditional and all-inclusive national dialogue in Burundi. This is the only constructive path to a solution which is lasting and based on a negotiated, democratic and institutional consensus which ensures security for all. The European Union remains willing to support the necessary recovery process in Burundi once the path of dialogue is embarked upon by all parties with the resolve necessary to ensure a solution. It therefore calls on all parties to forsake violence and to engage in this process of dialogue. The European Union continues to be the major donor to the humanitarian and reconstruction needs of the region. It welcomes the progress in rehabilitation in Rwanda, to which it contributes substantially, and it pays tribute to the work of the United Nations in various sectors in Rwanda. The return of refugees and national reconciliation in Rwanda will remain a priority for the Union. We will also continue to support the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994, to underscore our belief that the international community must pursue and bring to justice those who have perpetrated gross crimes against humanity. We have begun this fifty-first session with a signal of hope. The signature at the United Nations today of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test Ban Treaty shows this Organization in its rightful place — seized of the deepest concerns of humanity. This is the place which the founders sought for the United Nations. This is the place which it is our responsibility to ensure that it firmly holds for today’s world and for the generations to come. Lastly, and speaking solely in my capacity as Foreign Minister of Ireland, I would like to inform the Assembly of developments in the Northern Ireland situation over the past year. The search for a lasting peace and a comprehensive political settlement continues. Substantial advances have been recorded in the past 12 months, despite serious setbacks and despite the uncertainty and suspicion which still hamper the development of true reconciliation between the communities in Northern Ireland and between the main traditions which share the island of Ireland. Negotiations involving the Governments and the parties began in June and resumed earlier this month. The stated purpose of these negotiations is to achieve a new beginning for relationships within Northern Ireland, within the island of Ireland and between the peoples of these islands, and to agree new institutions and structures to take account of the totality of relationships. The Irish Government continues to base its approach to the negotiations on the fundamental principles set out in the 1993 Joint Declaration published with the British Government. As I indicated last year, A New Framework for Agreement, published in 1995, represents the shared 12 assessment of the two Governments of a balanced and honourable accommodation which might be envisaged across all the key relationships. We shall in negotiations make the case for a fair accommodation along these lines, believing as we do in the necessity of radical and ambitious change on all sides. At the same time, agreement requires the support of the political representatives in both communities, and must also command majority popular support in both parts of Ireland. We continue to be firmly of the view that wholly inclusive negotiations, involving the representatives of both communities in their totality, offer the best prospect of achieving a durable settlement founded on a recognition of the rights and aspirations of all. The Irish Republican Army (IRA), by terminating its cease-fire last February, not only perpetrated renewed death and destruction and flouted the wishes of the overwhelming majority of the people in both Britain and Ireland. It also obliged the two Governments to cease ministerial dialogue with Sinn Fein, which, because of the collapse of the cease-fire, is currently not a participant in the negotiations. This is a matter of both regret and frustration. Sinn Fein has a potentially valuable and constructive role to play in contributing to a stable and far-reaching settlement. But political dialogue is sustainable and productive only on the basis of the principles of democracy and non-violence. That is why there must be an unequivocal restoration of the IRA cease-fire before Sinn Fein can enter the negotiations, which would be enhanced by their presence, as they are by the continuing presence of the loyalist parties. Likewise, however, all of those truly committed to finding an accommodation must impartially reject sectarianism and oppose disorder from whatever source if they wish to create an atmosphere in which reconciliation can flourish and agreement take root. The confrontation and polarization which occurred during the past summer in the “marching season”, the consequences of which still vibrate, highlight the absolute necessity of compromise and mutual understanding. The instrument for progress is to hand in the Talks process under way, if we can persuade all the parties to use the Talks process constructively. That requires the earliest possible transition to substantive negotiations. The Irish Government is working with the British Government to persuade the representatives of the unionist community to embark on this step without delay, secure in the knowledge that the process already contains multiple safeguards, including the guarantee of popular referendum, to ensure that the interests of their community must be respected in any agreed outcome. The continuing support of the international community is an invaluable asset on which we can draw in the search for a settlement. Most directly, the negotiations benefit from the independent chairmanship of Senator Mitchell of the United States, former Prime Minister Holkeri of Finland, and General de Chastelain of Canada, whose skill and authority command the respect and confidence of all participants. In addition, I would like to express my Government’s gratitude for the generosity and support of all of our many friends in this Assembly, in particular the Governments of the United States and of our European Union partners. The wounds of conflict are still deep and unhealed in Ireland. We can be under no illusion but that the process of reconciliation and the crafting of an agreement will be slow and painstaking. But we have continued to make progress on that journey, and we are committed to continuing in our quest for peace.  ﻿May I begin by congratulating Ambassador Razali of Malaysia on his assumption of office as our General Assembly’s new President and offer our thanks to his predecessor, Ambassador Freitas do Amaral, for all his valuable work during the fiftieth session. The late twentieth century is an exciting time. For the fortunate among us, the world has never offered more: travel with unheard-of ease, a tantalizing cornucopia of consumer goods, 100 or more television stations in our homes, the Internet. But these fruits are denied the vast majority of the planet’s population. The number of people who live in absolute poverty is still growing. Their misery is a challenge to all our consciences, and I want today to talk about what we all, the developed countries as well as the developing, can do for those trapped in poverty — what we can do together to open the door to development. But first of all I would like to say a few brief words about four other issues of particular importance at this moment in time. First of all, Hong Kong. The year 1997 will be a special one for Hong Kong. Less than 300 days from now the world will witness history. The peaceful transfer of sovereignty over a territory of 6 million free and prosperous people is an event unparalleled in modern times. A transfer on the basis of an international Treaty, registered here at the United Nations — a Treaty between two members of the Security Council, which guarantees that for 50 years after 1997 there will be “one country, two systems” and that “Hong Kong people will rule Hong Kong”. Let there be no doubt of Britain’s continuing commitment to the future of Hong Kong and its people, well into the next century. Thanks to the efforts of the Hong Kong people themselves, the development of Hong Kong is one of the world’s great success stories. The Chinese Government has made clear its determination to preserve Hong Kong’s prosperity, its stability and its way of life as a free and open society based on the rule of law. For Britain, a successful transfer will be the closing of a chapter, but also a new beginning to our relations with both Hong Kong and with China. I suggest that all Members of the United Nations have a stake in this historic exercise. As long as the promises of the joint Declaration are turned into reality, Hong Kong has a bright future, as part of China and as one of the world’s leading cities, contributing enormously to growth and prosperity throughout the Asia-Pacific region. And I am sure that all here will join me in welcoming that prospect. I want also to take this opportunity to commend the International Court of Justice in its fiftieth anniversary year. The International Court has performed groundbreaking work in settling disputes between States, and I am proud that the United Kingdom has always been among the States that accept its compulsory jurisdiction. I hope that others will join us in pledging both moral and material support to the International Court. The more who accept that international law must be the foundation of international relations, the safer we shall all be. The world is safer today too with the historic signature of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Earlier this morning I had the privilege of signing the Treaty for the United Kingdom. It shows that we can, by acting with determination and by making sacrifices, reap the benefits of the end of the cold war, and I firmly believe that the Treaty can make an important contribution to preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and in promoting international security. The Treaty was the product of a multilateral negotiation and was adopted here in the General Assembly. But that alone is not enough. If it is to be fully effective, it must command universal support, and the United Kingdom will now put in hand the steps to allow us to ratify the Treaty. 17 It is the sovereign right of every State to decide whether or not to be bound by international agreements. But it is our firm conviction that this Treaty is in the interests of all, and I urge all States to give it their full support. Meanwhile, other threats still loom large. The insidious spectre of terrorism is a concern to all of us here, and it is right that the United Nations should be the forum for debate on this worldwide menace. The United Kingdom is proposing for adoption at this session a United Nations declaration which will spell out unequivocally that acts of terrorism, and the financing, planning and incitement of these acts, are contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. People who do these evil things and who seek asylum under the United Nations refugee Convention do not deserve to benefit from it. The United Nations faces a critical year. It remains the hope of people across the world in search of peace and development. But the changes required to adapt and strengthen the United Nations to meet the challenges of the future have not yet been completed. This year must see a solution to the financial crisis. Reform must be part of the solution, including a thorough updating of the system of assessing contributions to the United Nations, so that contributions match real ability to pay. But all Members must pay what they owe, both their assessments and their arrears, and promptly; and the European Union’s proposals are a good basis for negotiation. It will also be important to achieve over the coming year a resolution to the long- standing discussions of Security Council enlargement. In short, the United Nations must be made fit for the new millennium. I turn now to my main theme. Three months ago, at Lyons, the Group of Seven countries committed themselves to a partnership for the economic development of the world. This is not just a catchy slogan; it is a fresh approach to the challenge of development, and what it means is that the developing countries and the developed together would share responsibility for creating the conditions that will allow economies to grow, a shared agenda of measures that we need to take to promote development. For the countries of the developing world, this means pursuing policies to enable economies to grow: taxes need to be kept low, subsidies cannot be allowed to distort markets, exports should not be impeded by heavy tariffs. Domestic markets must be allowed to operate with as little interference as possible. The goal must be to establish an environment where the private sector can flourish, for the private sector is the engine of growth. In 1755, Adam Smith famously remarked that for prosperity “Little else is requisite ... but peace, easy taxes, and tolerable administration of justice”. This is still a valid recipe today — not easy to achieve, but with the sound foundations of good government and sensible macroeconomic policies, enterprise can flourish anywhere. This is the challenge to the Governments of the developing world. What of the developed world’s side of the bargain? — countries such as my own. Our responsibility is to remove the shackles which hinder developing economies as they try to enter the global market. Many of the poorest countries are still caught in a mire of debt they are unlikely ever to be able to pay off. This benefits no one. The United Kingdom has long argued that, when combined with macroeconomic reform of the kind I have described, deep debt relief can kick-start the development of the poorest economies. Some time ago, Britain helped to identify steps that could be taken to lift the debt burden from the poorest, most indebted countries: more debt relief from bilateral creditors and getting the multilateral agencies themselves to share more of the burden. Since then the Paris Club of creditors has made an important contribution by increasing debt forgiveness as agreed following British proposals at the Naples Summit in 1994. The multilateral agencies too have come up with some useful proposals, such as the World Bank’s Trust Fund to provide debt relief. I also welcome the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) commitment to continue providing concessional finance through the enhanced structural adjustment facility. These measures to relieve debt need to be implemented both flexibly and soon. The countries in greatest need should be granted maximum relief as swiftly as possible. I look forward to final agreement at the annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank next week. The private sector is the motor of development. Private investment flows to the developing world are now at record levels. The United Kingdom is the third largest source of private investment. But these flows are still not reaching the poorest countries. There is therefore a continuing need for concessional aid to prime the pump of homegrown development. We need to focus our efforts on those countries where help is needed most and which can make the best use of it. Help must primarily be 18 targeted at creating growth with equity, at developing human resources to their full potential, at giving priority to the needs of the poor: to health and education, to clean water and small enterprises. Increasingly this partnership in development amongst us all has to deal with the growing problems of planet survival: climate change, the environment, the future of the world’s oceans and forests, and pandemic diseases. Development which ignores these will not be sustainable. The United Nations is a central forum for focusing the attention and action of Governments and civil society on these challenges as we enter the next century. Next year’s General Assembly special session to review the Rio summit on environment and development is one example. But the best help that we in the developed world can give to the developing is to buy what they produce, and to do that we in the developed world must demolish the barriers that we still maintain against imports from the poorer countries of the developing world. When I look around the world, I see many developing countries bursting with exports that they have to sell: textiles, food, manufactured goods. But tragically, the markets of the richer countries of the developed world are often closed to these exports. Last week’s report from the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) predicted that poor countries could triple their exports to the North over the next 10 years if import quotas were phased out — an extra $175 billion a year in income. Protectionism is starving the developing economies of their oxygen, the oxygen of growth. The European Union’s record is better than most. We already have a wide-ranging scheme to allow duty-free imports from developing countries. But even so, the European Union obstructs, for example, imports of Palestinian cut flowers; it obstructs fruit juices from South Africa, strawberry jam from Bulgaria. Other developed countries are even less generous. The United States targets imports of Mexican tomatoes; Japan restricts imports of rice from South-East Asia. The list could go on. We all know the difficulty of resisting powerful domestic lobbies. They exist in Britain as elsewhere. But this sort of protectionism is not simply selfish; it is also short-sighted. Growth and prosperity in the developing world will over time increase, not diminish, the wealth of the industrialized world. Trade is not a zero-sum game. It is a process which is mutually beneficial, mutually enriching; and with prosperity comes stability and greater security for us all. This is not some fashionable nostrum dreamt up in an ivory tower. It is a prescription which has already been seen to work. Since 1945, under the auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the world economy has moved steadily towards more open markets. And the result is clear: five decades of unprecedented economic growth and prosperity. It is incumbent upon us to spread this benefit more widely. That is why I so warmly welcome the proposal put forward by the Director-General of the World Trade Organization. Mr. Ruggiero has proposed that the least- developed countries be granted tariff-free access to the markets of the developed world. I wholeheartedly welcome this initiative. I hope that others will see its compelling logic: the best hope the poor have for sustained economic development is to be given the freedom to export, the freedom to sell. That freedom enables countries to grow. But free trade is not just helpful to developing countries, it is a global good, its benefits are spread wide, to the producers and consumers in the developed and the developing world alike, who can profit from the greater efficiency that free trade engenders, and who can buy the best and cheapest products available on the world markets. In short, free trade benefits us all. That is why Britain is so firmly committed to bringing the vision of global free trade to reality by the year 2020. Free trade begins at home. Cutting tariffs and other import restrictions helps developing countries by cutting the costs of production, boosting efficiency and thus helping exports and growth. Combine these benefits with the freedom to export granted by open markets in the developed world, and developing countries and their economies can enjoy a virtuous circle of development. Free trade is therefore the catalyst for growth. This is not just good economic theory. Greater efficiency and higher growth mean more resources available for new hospitals and new schools, better housing and cleaner water. Free trade means real benefits for poor people. I have described today a challenge for every one of us here. Poverty is something we can all do something about. In May, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development proposed that the developed and developing worlds together should try to cut the number of people living in absolute poverty by half by 2015. Britain commits itself to that goal. It is achievable. 19 At home, we must liberalize our economies, minimize the burden of government and lift all restrictions on the free operation of the market. In the global economy, we must remove barriers to trade to allow the developing countries to sell. We must help lift the millstone of debt from those who can least bear it. We cannot allow the poorest members of the world community to become marginalized. We must do our utmost to enable all Members of the United Nations to enjoy the fruits of integration into the global economy. A revitalized United Nations has an essential part to play. I do not underestimate the difficulty of the tasks that I have described. We can only confront them in partnership, rich and poor together. If we all play our part, prosperity can be placed within the grasp of even the poorest countries. ﻿It gives me great pleasure to extend to you, Sir, on behalf of the delegation of the United Arab Emirates, our congratulations on your election as President of this session of the General Assembly. Your election is indeed an expression of the international community’s faith in your competence and vast diplomatic expertise, and of the high esteem in which we hold your friendly country, Malaysia. At the same time, allow me to thank sincerely your predecessor, who so ably led the deliberations of the previous session of the General Assembly. I should also like to take this opportunity to pay a warm tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the positive and important role he has played in the past few years. My country supports his re-election for a second term and appreciates his efforts to enhance the role of the Organization in the maintenance of international peace and security. The fifty-first session of the United Nations General Assembly is being held amid new international circumstances and developments that have both positively and negatively affected the global scene. Despite the relative optimism that has permeated international relations, threats to peace and security and to economic, social and human development worldwide still remain. The present détente in regional and international relations does not necessarily mean that the international climate has become more harmonious or homogenous. The security and political independence of small States is still threatened by the ambitions of States aspiring to spread their hegemony and expand at the expense of their neighbours. The political situation in the Arabian Gulf region during the past two decades has made us increasingly convinced of the importance of rebuilding confidence among the countries of the region. This confidence must be anchored in the principles of full and mutual respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and non- interference in the internal affairs of States, and of refraining from the threat or use of force. Every State has the right to choose its political, economic and social system, to preserve its natural resources and to resort to peaceful negotiations as a means of settling disputes within the context of bilateral, regional and international initiatives and endeavours. We also support the peaceful efforts currently under way to complete the demarcation of borders among the States of the region in order to enhance the national sovereignty of each State. This will contribute to the achievement of lasting peace, security and stability in the region. Inspired by our tradition, our history and our commitment to peace, we in the United Arab Emirates firmly believe that the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law are the proper means of settling disputes among nations. Twenty-five years have passed since the occupation by the Islamic Republic of Iran of our three islands, Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa. These are Arab islands, both in their history and in their origin. They are the pillars of our national sovereignty, territorial integrity and overall inalienable national rights. Since the beginning of the conflict, the United Arab Emirates has called on the Iranian Government to end its occupation of the islands and to enter into bilateral negotiations or seek the arbitration of the International Court of Justice. Referring the case to the International Court of Justice will ensure that each State has a chance to submit the relevant legal and historical documents and evidence to support its claim of sovereignty over the three islands. Despite our declared peaceful intentions, the mediation efforts of some friendly countries and the good offices of the Secretary-General, the Iranian Government rejected our peaceful endeavours. It has established and equipped facilities on the three islands whose features are not exclusively civilian. It has built an electrical power plant on Greater Tunb; and an airport, a refrigeration plant and a fish-processing plant on Abu Musa. Moreover, Iranian nationals, mostly from the military, have been settled on the islands. We view this as a clear act of provocation aimed at changing the demographic character of the islands and imposing a new fait accompli. Through these acts and by ignoring the repercussions of such a policy on the peace and security of the region and on international navigation, Iran has consolidated its illegitimate occupation. The Islamic Republic of Iran has failed to heed the repeated, serious and sincere appeals made by the United Arab Emirates, the Gulf Co-operation Council, the Arab States of the Gulf, the last Arab Summit meeting, the Council of the League of Arab States and the States parties to the Damascus Declaration to settle the dispute through peaceful means. This violates not only our country’s national sovereignty, but also international law and all the international principles, norms and practices governing relations among States, particularly among neighbouring States. We therefore call on the Government of Iran to dismantle all the illegitimately established civilian and military facilities on our three islands. We also call upon Iran to respond to the peace initiatives we have advanced and which are supported by sisterly and friendly peace- loving countries; to enter into unconditional bilateral negotiations conducive to a peaceful settlement of the dispute; or to refer the case to the International Court of Justice. Security, stability and sustainable development are urgent needs of societies all over the globe. My country, which has always supported the inalienable rights of peoples to resist occupation and aggression, condemns all forms of terrorism and the acts of subversion and sabotage facing the international community today. In this connection, we agree with and support all the measures taken by the State of Bahrain to preserve its security, its national sovereignty and its political independence. In this context, we reiterate our full support for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in its fight against terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, and against all threats to its national security. We believe that the member States of the Gulf Co-operation Council are bound by the threads of a common destiny defined by the requirements of peace and security of the whole region. Terrorism defies all international norms and practices and runs counter to religious and cultural beliefs, which are the pillars of stability and prosperity for all societies. It must therefore be addressed in an international context. The United Arab Emirates has followed with grave concern the recent developments in Iraq. We reaffirm the importance we attach to preserving Iraq’s national sovereignty and territorial integrity. We oppose any interference in its internal affairs and the establishment by neighbouring States of safety zones on its territory. In the same context, we support all the measures taken by the State of Kuwait to preserve its sovereignty, security and territorial integrity. The escalating human suffering of the Iraqi people and the spread of disease and malnutrition call for the immediate and full implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995). However, the ultimate responsibility for the alleviation of the suffering of the Iraqi people rests solely with the Government of Iraq. This can be realized only when the Iraqi Government complies fully with its international obligations under the relevant Security Council resolutions. Those obligations include the release of all Kuwaitis and other nationals 2 imprisoned or detained by Iraq and the return of all Kuwaiti property still in its possession. My country supported the Agreement on Principles concluded between the Republic of Yemen and Eritrea on the Hanish archipelago. We renew our call to the two Governments to commit to the principle of peaceful settlement through international arbitration so that peace and security can prevail in this region. We take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the Government of France for its mediation efforts. The United Arab Emirates welcomed the peace negotiations in the Middle East, beginning with the Madrid Conference through the subsequent agreements relative to the question of Palestine. We are disappointed by the position of the Israeli Government, which has not honoured the commitments entered into by its predecessor. The Israeli Government has refused to withdraw from the city of Hebron, and has embarked on an expansion of its illegitimate settlement activities. More recently, it opened a tunnel adjacent to Al-Haram al-Sharif, the Noble Sanctuary, which threatens the structures of the Al-Aqsa Mosque and alters the demographic character and legal status of the city of Jerusalem. This is an act of provocation that will arouse the feelings of Arabs and Muslims, and will obstruct the achievement of a just, comprehensive and lasting peace settlement to the Middle East problem and the Palestinian question. At the Security Council meeting held last week, the international community reaffirmed its solidarity with the Palestinian people, its support of the peace process, and its opposition to all the measures recently taken by the Israeli Government. The United Arab Emirates condemns all the acts of violence recently committed by the Israeli occupying authorities against the Palestinian people, which resulted in firing at and thus the martyrdom of many Palestinians, in addition to the injuries sustained by many more. We call on the Israeli Government to put an end to its barbaric practices, which run counter to the most basic norms of international humanitarian law. The Arab parties are determined to pursue the peace process as an objective and a strategic option to which there is no alternative. This calls for a reciprocal commitment by the Israeli side, without any further delay or procrastination. This commitment must be proven by the actual, unconditional implementation of all relevant agreements thus far concluded, to enable the Palestinian people to exercise their legitimate rights, including their right to self- determination and to the establishment of their own independent State, with Jerusalem as its capital. It must also include full Israeli withdrawal from the Syrian Golan to the 4 June 1967 line, and from southern Lebanon and the western Bekaa, to the internationally recognized b o r d e r s , p u r s u a n t t o S e c u r i t y C o u n c i l resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), and the principle of land for peace. These measures will guarantee balanced and equitable security for all the States of the region, and realize their peoples’ aspirations for a new era of comprehensive economic and social development. We fully subscribe to the international call for a regional and international nuclear-test ban, and for the establishment of international zones free of all weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons. These weapons pose a grave danger to our health, our environment and our natural resources. I recently had the honour to sign, on behalf of the United Arab Emirates, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, thus enhancing its universality. We call upon the international community and the relevant international bodies to spare no effort to make the Middle East and the Arab Gulf region a zone free of all weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons. The international community must call on Israel to accede to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and to comply with the international safeguards regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Despite the efforts and good offices of the League of Arab States and the United Nations to save Somalia from its predicament, the civil war there continues unabated, and the deteriorating humanitarian situation is cause for grave concern. We therefore appeal to the rival Somali faction leaders to shoulder their responsibility and bring this tragic bloodshed to an end. They must set aside their differences and form a national Government representing all the factions of the Somali people, a Government that can restore to Somalia its national unity, territorial integrity, security and stability. Political developments in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina testify to the importance that the international community attaches to the Dayton Peace Agreement, with a view to restoring normal conditions in the Republic. My country supported that Agreement. We consider it the first constructive step on the road to a just and permanent settlement of the Balkan problem. We welcome the results of the recent elections in the Republic of Bosnia Herzegovina. We hope that these elections will safeguard the territorial integrity of the 3 Republic and contribute to the establishment of democratic institutions. We also hope that they will help restore normal relations among the Bosnian people and pave the way for reconstruction, following the war’s devastation. Peace, security and stability can then return to this tormented region. We take this opportunity to stress the importance of bringing to justice war criminals who have committed heinous crimes against humanity and humanitarian international law in the former Yugoslavia. The tragic events, raging wars and civil strife, and untold human suffering of the peoples of some African countries, are cause for grave concern. In view of the historic relations that bind our countries together, we reiterate our support for the efforts of the Organization of African Unity in cooperation with the United Nations to contain the conflicts by peaceful means so that their peoples’ aspirations to peace, security, stability and development may be realized. The economic and social gap between the nations of the world is still wide in spite of positive political and economic developments on the regional and international scene, the creation of economic blocs, and free trade in the world. This has led to the exacerbation of poverty, illiteracy and disease in many developing countries. Those countries are already ailing under the heavy burden of debt and debt- servicing, and are suffering from the deterioration of living standards and dwindling development assistance from developed countries, in addition to trade barriers adversely affecting their economies. The world conferences held over the past five years achieved important results, and their recommendations have become important strategies aimed at creating an equitable and prosperous international environment. The international community, which is still plagued by persistent violence, organized crime, drugs and terrorism, must translate these recommendations into a reality that will guarantee equitable economic and social development and the free flow of trade between the developed and the developing countries. We firmly believe that this Organization still represents mankind’s conscience in the face of lingering world problems. To enhance its role under the Charter, the international community needs to provide the necessary political, financial and moral support to the Organization. We must undertake major structural reforms, enlarge the Security Council membership in accordance with the principle of equitable geographic distribution, and improve the functioning of the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the specialized agencies, so that they can respond adequately to current regional and international developments. I would also like to stress the importance of cooperation, consultation and coordination between the United Nations and regional organizations. These organizations can assist the United Nations to arrive at a better understanding of regional problems that can affect peace, security and sustainable development. In conclusion, we hope that our aspirations will find proper expression in the commitment by the States of the world to the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law. We look forward to the realization of the noble objectives of this Organization. ﻿On behalf of the Government and the people of the Republic of Korea, Sir, I would like to express my sincere congratulations on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. We are confident that under your able leadership the Assembly will take action to revitalize the world Organization, building on the foundation laid by your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal. My gratitude goes also to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and the staff of the Secretariat for their excellent work for this session. The most pressing business of this Assembly is to create the architecture for United Nations renewal. The Member States, with vision and determination, need to construct step by step a consensus on reform that will not only bring the Organization out of its present crisis, but will also prepare the world community to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. We welcome the ongoing efforts to strengthen and revitalize the United Nations. But at the same time we must admit that unless progress is accelerated in the months ahead, there is a real danger that the momentum and sense of purpose spawned by the fiftieth anniversary could well be lost. My Government actively supports the various working groups of the General Assembly as they seek ways to make the United Nations more effective, efficient and democratic. As a member of the Group of Sixteen States in support of renewing multilateralism, we are also pleased to actively participate in the efforts to enhance the principle of multilateralism. The Group’s joint statement embodying this principle was reported to the General Assembly last Wednesday by Prime Minister Persson of Sweden, on behalf of the 16 Heads of State or Government. All these efforts, however, will be of no use if Member States fail either to meet their financial obligations or to make the political compromises necessary to produce a durable package of reforms. Let us not forget that the very principles of multilateralism on which the United Nations was founded are at risk. As was so aptly put by the President of the General Assembly in his 17 September inaugural speech, “the syndrome of business as usual'” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Plenary Meetings, 1st meeting, p. 3) must be discarded. Our Organization is in serious financial trouble due to the arrears and outstanding contributions of Member States. The Security Council needs to be modernized to reflect the expansion in United Nations membership, to be more equitably balanced geographically and to work efficiently, transparently and democratically. To better serve the needs of economic development and to reduce duplication, we should undertake a sweeping reassessment of the scores of subsidiary bodies of the Economic and Social Council and of the Assembly itself. While we welcome General Assembly resolution 50/227 as a step in the right direction, much more needs to be done. History will not judge the United Nations on how many committees it forms or how many resolutions it passes, but on how much it does on the ground, day in and day out, to further peace, prosperity and justice for the world’s peoples. Today I would like to focus my remarks on four major challenges facing the United Nations and then to say a few words about the situation on the Korean peninsula. In considering the architecture for United Nations renewal, we should shape an Organization better prepared to respond to the following four priority needs: first, restraining the proliferation of dangerous and destructive weaponry; secondly, bolstering United Nations capabilities for effective peacekeeping and peace-building; thirdly, assisting economic and social development while enhancing protection of the environment; and fourthly, improving mechanisms for ensuring respect for international law and human rights. Calls for a new international order will ring hollow without more reliable controls on the spread of dangerous armaments, particularly those capable of mass destruction. As a supporter of the early conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty (CTBT), my Government heartily welcomed the long-awaited adoption of the Treaty earlier this month. The conclusion of the CTBT will help curb nuclear proliferation in all its forms and will contribute towards nuclear disarmament. As an original signatory to the CTBT, the Republic of Korea aims to ratify the Treaty swiftly. In order for the CTBT to become universal and verifiable, my Government urges all countries to accede to the Treaty at the earliest possible date. While the Conference on Disarmament failed to reach consensus on the CTBT, the Conference, through two and a half years of intense negotiations, was instrumental in articulating the eventual Treaty. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Conference and to assure the Assembly that the Republic of Korea, as a new member of the Conference, will spare no efforts to contribute to its vital work. Despite much progress towards a world free of nuclear weapons, the Korean peninsula still faces the threat of nuclear proliferation. North Korea has yet to achieve nuclear transparency. Once again, my delegation urges North Korea to comply with its obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards in a comprehensive manner, and to implement fully and faithfully the Framework Agreement between the United States and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. We also renew our call on North Korea to live up to its obligations under the South-North Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. Until they are eliminated from the face of the Earth, chemical and biological weapons too will pose a grave threat to humanity. Towards this end, the Republic of Korea, as an original signatory to the chemical weapons Convention in 1993, recently concluded the domestic procedures to ratify the Convention. We look forward to its swift entry into force, for universal adherence to the Convention is critical to achieving a total ban on chemical weapons. My delegation therefore strongly urges those countries which have not yet joined the Convention, including the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, to do so as early as possible. Moreover, my Government, which acceded to the biological weapons Convention supports the efforts to introduce a strict verification system into the Convention. Both of these non-proliferation measures are essential building blocks for world peace. My Government, moreover, shares the international concern over the millions of anti-personnel landmines scattered throughout the world. We are looking forward to working closely with other Member States to minimize the suffering and casualties among innocent civilians caused by these indiscriminate weapons. To this end, I am pleased to announce that the Republic of Korea will again extend its moratorium on the export of anti-personnel mines for another year. The second priority for United Nations renewal should be to adapt and bolster its uniquely valuable peacekeeping and peace- building work to meet new challenges. Following several years of rising expectations and expanding mandates, Member States have developed over the past two years a more sober appreciation not only of the limits of United Nations capabilities but, more important, of their own willingness to provide the requisite material and human support for a more ambitious role for the world body. Both the scope and the nature of peacekeeping operations are being tested as the demands for United Nations involvement remain high in a world confronted by an alarming number of intra-State conflicts and acts of terrorism. Today’s peacekeepers are often required to undertake diverse tasks such as monitoring violations of human rights, staging elections, rehabilitating civic institutions and reintegrating combatants and refugees into peacetime society. Thus, peacekeeping now directly contributes to peace-building and conflict prevention. Post-conflict peace-building, by rehabilitating a country’s war-ravaged economic and social base, can serve to prevent the recurrence of conflict. Member States should recognize, however, that the broadening of peacekeeping objectives should be matched by an expansion in the resources and capabilities of the United Nations for carrying out these tasks. Peace, too, has a price. Recently, several promising proposals have been put forward for enhancing the rapid deployment capability of the United Nations. We consider the United Nations system of standby arrangements — currently comprising of 59 countries, including the Republic of Korea — to be an innovative and practical mechanism for coping with emergency situations. We also believe that the growing interest and participation of Member States have boosted the credibility of the system of standby arrangements, making it easier to secure the consent of parties in a 12 given conflict to United Nations peacekeeping involvement. In addition, we support the establishment of a rapidly deployable headquarters team within the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, as proposed by the friends of rapid deployment. The Korean Government is willing to detail personnel to the team as part of our contribution to strengthening the United Nations rapid deployment capability. Since we first dispatched an engineering unit to the United Nations peacekeeping operation in Somalia in 1993, the Republic of Korea has contributed to many peacekeeping operations around the world. We intend to expand our participation in terms of human resources, and material and political support for practical steps to improve the peace-management capacity of the United Nations. In an uncertain world, terrorism poses an ever-present threat to international and domestic peace and security. Having been a direct victim of terrorism, the Republic of Korea strongly condemns all acts of terrorism. We urge the international community to take firm action to contain and combat terrorism. The 1994 Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism clearly states that terrorism in all forms is not only criminal, but also unjustifiable under any circumstances, regardless of political, ideological, ethnic or racial motivation. My Government reaffirms its strong commitment to join the ongoing efforts to eradicate terrorism worldwide. Economic and social development should also remain a high priority at a time when scientific progress and information technology are globalizing the world economy at a rapid pace. Driven by unprecedented levels of cross- border trade and investment, globalization presents new opportunities to bolster economic development and improve quality of life. Nonetheless, we must not lose sight of the detrimental effects of this trend, which threaten to leave some developing countries increasingly marginalized. The United Nations has an obligation to try to help those least developed countries, particularly in Africa, that are truly in need. My delegation fully supports the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for development in Africa, a joint undertaking by the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions launched last March. We look forward to joining other Member States in a common effort to bring this worthy endeavour to fruition. Having risen from the devastation of the Korean War, the Republic of Korea has achieved sustained economic growth and advancements in living standards over the past three decades. Seeking to share the lessons of our own development experience, we have worked to help other developing countries apply two key elements of our own growth: capacity-building and human resource development. The Korean International Cooperation Agency is implementing diverse programs to assist other developing countries in this regard. At the same time, Korea will increase its voluntary contribution to the operational activities of the United Nations by 120 per cent during 1996-97. In these and many other ways, we are determined to participate in United Nations efforts to bring about economic and social progress throughout the world. Since 1994, my Government has worked with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to establish the International Vaccine Institute in Seoul. This Institute will be dedicated to capacity-building for developing countries in the development and use of vaccines, particularly for children and the impoverished. The official launching of the International Vaccine Institute will take place in New York on 28 October. We would encourage as many countries as possible to show their support for this worthy and noble project by becoming party to the agreement. The emergence of unprecedented global environmental issues, such as climate change and biodiversity, calls for genuine global partnership based on equitable burden-sharing. The special session on environmental issues of the General Assembly in 1997 will provide us with a valuable opportunity to formulate a clear, sustainable development strategy for the twenty- first century. On 5 June 1997, immediately before the special session, my Government will co-host World Environment Day, together with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), as part of our efforts to contribute to the resolution of environmental issues. The fourth theme for United Nations renewal, in our view, should be to reinforce the unique United Nations capacity for codifying, monitoring and encouraging respect for international law and human rights. As the Charter so eloquently attests, genuine peace and stability depend upon a healthy respect for international law and human rights norms. The continuing United Nations commitment to human rights and social justice was reaffirmed by a series of international conferences during the 1990s. They include the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, in 1993, and the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing in 1995. 13 In particular, the Beijing Conference underscored the critical principle that gender equality — through the protection of women’s human rights and the eradication of all forms of violence against women — forms the foundation of a sound and prosperous society. The Republic of Korea is committed to maintaining its support for international efforts to advance the status of women. All of us need to do more, however, to help the United Nations live up to its potential for promoting human rights. Its mechanisms for furthering respect for universal human rights need to be reinforced and upgraded across the board. We need to enhance the coordinating role of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and of the resources of the Centre for Human Rights. The Korean Government will do its best to make a meaningful contribution to this end. Envisioned since the Nuremberg and Tokyo Tribunals of a half century ago, the idea of an international court to punish crimes against humanity is now being materialized, even as the Yugoslavia and Rwanda Tribunals are struggling to bring to justice criminals who have committed genocide and other mass crimes. A preparatory committee is refining the draft statute of the international criminal court, prepared by the International Law Commission. We look forward to the early establishment of the court, which we believe will deter violators of human rights. We also welcome the establishment of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, which should contribute significantly to the strengthening of international law and order. The road to democracy in the Republic of Korea has been long and difficult. Indeed, laying the foundation for democracy in a developing country is never easy. It requires a vigilant public conscious of democracy and human rights and a government willing to nurture the will of its citizens. This has been and will remain a primary objective of the Korean Government. We are making every effort to promote further human rights and democracy through the enhancement of our legal and institutional mechanisms. My Government has also been active in the endeavour to assist the democratic impulse throughout the world. Lending our support to the electoral assistance activities of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, we provided a dozen election monitors, as well as supplies, for the international operation to ensure free and fair elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the past, we also participated in the electoral observer missions in Mozambique, Cambodia, South Africa and Palestine. Let me now turn to the situation on the Korean peninsula. Despite the easing of tensions worldwide since the end of the cold war, the Korean peninsula continues to be a source of instability, posing threats to the peace and security of north-east Asia and beyond. Unfortunately, the tides of openness and reconciliation that swept other parts of the world have not yet reached the Korean peninsula, the last remaining legacy of the cold war. Last week North Korea dispatched a military submarine to infiltrate armed commandos into the South. We uncovered this infiltration when the submarine ran aground on the shore of Kangrung, a city on the South Korean east coast, and 26 armed agents are believed to have come ashore. Of these, 21 were killed and one was captured. According to the captured agent, the armed infiltrators were all military officers from the North Korean defence ministry. Subsequent examinations also revealed shocking findings. The 11 North Koreans found dead on the day of the landing were apparently killed by their cohorts for reasons unknown. The investigation is still under way to find out the purpose of the infiltration and other details, but the findings to date present a strong possibility that last week’s infiltration is part of a larger-scale infiltration operation. This brazen act of military provocation by North Korea constitutes not only a serious infringement of our territorial waters and sovereignty, but also a blatant violation of the Armistice Agreement. It also clearly demonstrates that North Korea still seeks Korean reunification by any means, including the use of force. Needless to say, this act of provocation poses a direct threat to peace and stability on and around the Korean peninsula. We once again urge North Korea immediately to renounce its absurd goal of unifying Korea by force and to pursue peaceful coexistence with the South. The North should also abide by the Armistice Agreement and end any attempt to disrupt the current armistice regime. We also take this opportunity to renew our call on North Korea to accept our proposal for four-party talks involving both Koreas, China and the United States, which will enable constructive negotiations for the establishment of a lasting peace on the peninsula. In the absence of Pyongyang’s positive response and given the seriousness of North Korea’s violation of the armistice, 14 my country firmly believes that the Armistice Agreement should remain in full force. At the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly, we took a collective look at where the United Nations had been and where it was going. In an open and forward-looking spirit, we compared visions of the kind of world body that will be needed to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. Now, with this fifty-first session, comes the hard part: redoubling our collective commitment to the world body so that it can become a means for translating our visions into realities. Together, we can fashion the architecture of United Nations renewal. Can we achieve harmony out of diversity? Can we refocus our energies on the four priorities of stemming the spread of weapons of mass destruction, bolstering United Nations peacekeeping and peace-building capabilities, advancing sustainable economic and social development, and reinforcing our joint commitment to international law and human rights? The answer to these questions must be a resounding collective “yes”. The Republic of Korea stands ready to make its share of contributions, through the United Nations, to meet the challenges of the next century.  ﻿It is indeed a pleasure for me to extend my delegation’s congratulations to Ambassador Razali and his country, Malaysia, on his election to the high office of President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I entertain no doubt that 17 he will be able to draw upon his proven diplomatic skills and considerable experience to guide the affairs of the General Assembly in a creditable and exemplary manner. Permit me also to express my appreciation and thanks to his immediate predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for the competence which he demonstrated in presiding over the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. The United Nations was established 51 years ago with a focus on the maintenance of peace and security, and while that remains the objective, the linkage between peace and economic and social development, enshrined in the Charter, must be recognized and strengthened if the world is to escape the inexorable consequences of the continuously widening gap between rich and poor nations. We were led to believe that the peace dividend resulting from the end of the cold war would provide the engine for greater economic development. Obviously, that has not materialized. Indeed, the opposite has occurred. The developing world continues to experience a steady shrinkage of development assistance. And at this critical juncture, small island States, already hampered by size, geographic location, topography and climatic conditions, are having their very existence threatened by the policies and practices of multinationals, made all the more formidable by overwhelming support from their Governments. The production and export of bananas are vital to the economic viability of the Commonwealth of Dominica, as they are to all the islands of the Windward group. The banana industry in the Windward Islands accounts for less than 5 per cent of world production. The producers are small landowners; the production costs are relatively high; and any attempt by the Windward Islands producers to sell their products on the open market would be suicidal. Recognizing the peculiar difficulties of Windward Islands producers and their traditional access to the European market, the European Union has established a regime reserving less than 10 per cent of its market for bananas from the Caribbean. That regime is now under attack from multinationals in Latin America and elsewhere, with huge resources augmented by the power, prestige and political might of their national Governments. In the struggle to save an industry critical to our economic survival, our political stability and our democratic traditions and institutions, we call upon the international community to take note of the very real possibility of social upheaval and political disaster in the region if this challenge to the European Union regime were to succeed. It is rather incongruous that the same forces that are at the forefront of the effort to establish democratic institutions and representative governments in certain parts of the world are also engaged in an enterprise which, if successful, is calculated to destroy the free and democratic way of life in the eastern Caribbean. The international community has an interest in seeing that these small societies remain free and stable, and it has an obligation to ensure that that freedom and stability subsist. The scourge of illicit drug traffic and drug abuse must continue to be of great concern to the international community. The problem knows no boundary, it respects no ideology or power, it makes no distinction between rich and poor, North and South, East and West. Its engine is driven by the prospect of huge fortunes amassed clandestinely and quickly. Universal in its destructive force, the illicit drug problem presents a unique challenge to the world. The Commonwealth of Dominica has taken steps, commensurate with its limited resources, to deal with the problem at the national level, and it is a party to cooperative regional arrangements aimed at impeding the trans-shipment of illicit drugs through the Caribbean region. Recognizing, however, that the problem is demand-driven, we must make it clear that the prospects for success in this effort will remain dim unless there is a greater undertaking by the major consumer centres to reduce the demand for the product. Connected with international drug trafficking is the illegal trade in arms and, tangentially, international terrorism. The twin evils of illicit arms and international terrorism have as their purpose the destruction of innocent lives, the violation of the fundamental tenets of the civilized world and the subversion of the democratic freedoms of all mankind. An unprecedented effort by Members of the United Nations will be required if we are to control the illicit trade in arms and extinguish the threat of terrorism. Compounding the problem is the legal trade in conventional weapons of increasing sophistication and destructiveness. With regard to nuclear weapons, the Commonwealth of Dominica believes that the Non- Proliferation Treaty and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty are merely way-stations on the road to the desirable end of a world free of all such arsenals. We are extremely concerned and aggrieved by the continuing practice of trans-shipping nuclear waste and other hazardous substances through the Caribbean Sea. Assurances of safe procedures and infinitesimal risks are unconvincing, particularly when such trans-shipments are made through the Caribbean Sea during the hurricane 18 season and at a period of heightened seismic activity in the Caribbean region. The Commonwealth of Dominica, together with other members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) continues to view this dangerous practice as a potentially serious threat to the fragile ecosystem and to the livelihood and well-being of the people of the region, and we call upon the States engaging in the practice to demonstrate some regard for our justifiable concerns. We earnestly seek the support of the international community in our ongoing effort to halt the shipment of these dangerous materials through the Caribbean Sea. For several decades, the Republic of China on Taiwan has exercised and continues to exercise sovereign authority over a defined geographical area inhabited today by 21 million souls. This year, the process of political reform achieved its ultimate goal when, for the first time in history, the President of the Republic of China on Taiwan was democratically elected in free and fair elections. Democracy is alive and well in the Republic of China on Taiwan. The peace and security of the region are not threatened today, nor have they ever been threatened, by the Republic of China on Taiwan. Indeed, the Republic of China’s human rights record, its commitment to market economy and multilateralism and its economic assistance programmes have served to enhance the prospects for peace, security and stability in the area and beyond. As the members of the European Parliament stated in their resolution of 17 July 1996, the Republic of China on Taiwan can play an important beneficial role in the international community, and it is clear that the exclusion of the Republic of China on Taiwan from the world’s councils, from the United Nations and its specialized agencies, and from the major international financial institutions concerned with development and the eradication of poverty is a detriment to us all. The Commonwealth of Dominica believes that on the principle of universality, the Republic of China on Taiwan should be admitted as a Member of the United Nations. Just over two years ago the world applauded the progress that had been made in the bilateral negotiations between Israel and its Arab neighbours in the Middle East, and we expressed cautious optimism with respect to the eventual resolution of the conflict and the progress towards a full and just peace in the region. Recent events have given reason for pause, however. We recognize that a solution to the problem in the Middle East can only be achieved through the energies of the States in the region and their genuine commitment to peace. But the international community and the United Nations in particular have an interest — indeed, a duty — to facilitate and assist the process towards the realization of the legitimate hopes, aspirations and security needs of the peoples in the area. The Commonwealth of Dominica abhors the concept of national laws having extraterritorial jurisdiction and serving as underpinnings for illegal secondary boycotts. We are particularly troubled by the potential use of these instruments by large and powerful States to compromise the territorial integrity and national sovereignty of small States like ours. The restructuring and reform of the United Nations system continues in the face of a forced financial crisis that undermines the very result intended by the reform programme, namely, an Organization with the capacity to discharge its worldwide obligations effectively and efficiently. We continue to be supportive of the efforts to exercise budgetary restraints, to reduce waste and to eliminate unnecessary duplication, but we caution against a programme of retrenchment detrimental to the existence of programmes designed to assist small developing nations. Indeed, we believe that the end-product of the reform of the United Nations should be an Organization better equipped to be an effective force for development and economic growth. In this age of globalization, the United Nations continues to be an important agent for economic growth and development and a vital instrument in maintaining world peace. The Commonwealth of Dominica recognizes and applauds the achievements of the United Nations in those areas. The capacity of the Organization to meet the challenges of the years ahead will depend on our collective will and commitment to effecting measurable improvement in the human condition.  ﻿May I congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly and pledge to you the full support of my delegation. During the past fiftieth-anniversary year, the States Members of the United Nations have reaffirmed their support for the fundamental purposes and principles of the Organization. The momentum created by the anniversary must now be used to adapt the Organization to new realities. To this end, both structural and financial reforms must be undertaken, setting priorities and reallocating limited resources. But the point of the exercise must not be simple cost-cutting. What we need above all is a stronger, not a weaker, Organization, better capable of dealing with the enormous global challenges of the twenty-first century. There is no alternative to the United Nations. The further evolution of the Organization is therefore inevitable. But the Organization will not evolve in a commonly acceptable direction under duress. Agreement on and implementation of necessary reforms will only be achieved in a spirit of dialogue and accommodation. This applies not least to the ongoing work to adapt the Security Council. Changes in its composition and working methods should remain a priority. The Council must better reflect political and economic realities in a rapidly changing world. Its continued effectiveness depends on a constructive contribution by all its members, as well as on equitable representation and manageable size. There should be a geographically balanced expansion of seats in both the permanent and non-permanent categories, including permanent seats for Germany and Japan. We should ensure that small and medium-sized States have the possibility to be represented in the Council. The United Nations system must be strengthened further in the fields of economic and social policy and development. The revitalization of the Economic and Social Council is important if the Council is to serve as an important venue for coordination and policy-making on issues which affect our daily existence. Iceland is a candidate for election to the Economic and Social Council for the next term and is prepared to contribute constructively to the work of the Council and to the debate on its future. The signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) this week will be remembered as an important step towards limiting the nuclear-arms race and setting us on the path of genuine nuclear disarmament. I would like to urge Member countries to sign and ratify the Treaty as soon as possible. The proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction is of continuous concern to the international community. Unconditional and universal adherence to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), the chemical weapons and biological weapons Conventions, and now the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is a critical step towards eliminating weapons that threaten life on our planet. But the horrors associated with weapons of mass destruction must not blind us to the widespread suffering caused by increasingly destructive conventional arms. Landmines especially are a growing menace, indiscriminately maiming and killing innocents no less than combatants. Iceland strongly supports a comprehensive ban on the use, production and export of anti-personnel landmines. In the aftermath of the cold war, it has become increasingly clear how prolonged regional conflicts can have serious international implications. Events in Iraq are only the most recent example. Such conflicts need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner by the United Nations. In addition to the important function of the Security Council, the wider United Nations system should be employed more actively to prevent armed conflicts as well as to assist in the reconstruction of societies emerging from war. Vigilance towards threats or acts of aggression which can erode regional or international stability is a necessary part of such preventive activity. International terrorism is aggression by unconventional means. Its victims are mainly civilians. The use or sanction of terrorism by individual States is unacceptable. The action of the international community should properly reflect the universal abhorrence of alliances between terrorists and individual States. The sinister scheming of terrorists and organized crime is of growing concern, not least since it is frequently based on illicit drug trafficking. The United Nations can do much to enhance international cooperation in crime prevention and in the suppression of drug trafficking across national boundaries. Iceland supports the holding of a special session of the General Assembly in 1998 devoted to drug control. The international community must move swiftly to enhance respect for relevant human rights instruments in areas of conflict. The establishment of international war crimes tribunals is a step in the right direction, provided they receive the cooperation necessary to fulfil their mandate from all parties concerned. Through a series of international conferences, the Organization has, during the past few years, addressed the most important issues facing humankind. These conferences have highlighted both the enormity of our task and the complex interrelationship between the various global issues we are often called upon to deal with, be they absolute poverty, environmental degradation, overpopulation, human rights abuses or social injustice. Having concluded this unprecedented series of conferences with the second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements in Istanbul last June, we owe it to future generations to join hands and spare no effort to implement the decisions reached. Universal human rights are the foundation on which we base the work of the United Nations. This includes the safeguarding of gender equality and the rights of the most vulnerable groups in society: the poor and the disabled. Children are increasingly the target of atrocities in war and of human rights violations. Six years after the World Summit for Children we still must do a better job of honouring our commitments to children. In this context, Iceland welcomes in particular the recommendations of the Stockholm World Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children and wishes to see them followed up as soon as possible. Hunger and malnutrition are shameful phenomena on the eve of the twenty-first century. With the resources at its disposal, the international community should be able to provide food security for the whole of mankind. The forthcoming World Food Summit will hopefully secure a commitment at the highest political level to rapidly achieve this objective. As a country owing its survival and prosperity to the harvesting of living marine resources, Iceland has consistently underlined the potential of the oceans as a major source of nutrition. Icelandic fisheries have developed experience and technology which could benefit others. The Government of Iceland is prepared to facilitate international cooperation in this field. Iceland has contributed actively to the establishment of international law governing the protection and sustainable utilization of the oceans. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea has already proven to be a historic success in the field of international law and remains among the greatest achievements of the United Nations. 2 The seas and the ocean floors are the depositories of enormous resources. The agreement of the international community on an extensive legal framework on this subject is therefore a major accomplishment. The Convention offers the prospect of resolving serious conflicts on the uses of the seas which could be detrimental to international cooperation. The Convention has already provided the basis for further agreements, such as the recently concluded Agreement relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. Iceland has actively participated in the adoption of the Global Programme of Action for the Protection of the Marine Environment from Land-based Activities. Pollution of this sort is responsible for over 80 per cent of all marine pollution. In order to facilitate the implementation of the Programme, a draft resolution on institutional arrangements will be addressed by the General Assembly at this session. However, major challenges remain. Controlling the use of persistent organic pollutants needs to be addressed. Iceland welcomes the proposal put forward within the United Nations Environment Programme to establish an international committee in 1997 with the aim of reaching a global agreement on this question. This year, Iceland celebrates the fiftieth anniversary of its membership in the United Nations. We have strongly emphasized constructive participation. This reflects our belief in the importance of multilateral cooperation for smaller States and, in particular, in the hopes and aspirations attached to the world Organization. The United Nations is ideally capable of achievements in specific areas which are beyond the reach of national or regional authorities. However, it will never attain the capacity to meet all expectations. As Member States debate reforms, I would like to emphasize the importance of setting priorities and making them well known. The shaping of a new United Nations suited for the twenty-first century must be complemented by vigorous information efforts with the aim of ensuring continued public confidence and support. ﻿At the outset I should like to congratulate Ambassador Razali Ismail on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. The Liechtenstein delegation is confident that his leadership will strengthen the United Nations ability to pursue the purposes and principles of the Charter. One year after the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, it is appropriate to take stock once again of the achievements and shortcomings of our Organization and, first and foremost, to define the measures we have to take in order to face the challenges that lie ahead of us. One of the recurrent topics at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly was the call for a comprehensive and effective reform with a view both to enhancing the efficiency of the United Nations and to reducing the costs of its work. I wish to express my appreciation for all the efforts that have been made by the Secretariat to meet this need, particularly to the Department of Administration and Management and to the Office of Internal Oversight Services, which have made an important contribution in this regard. However, it remains a fact that more needs to be done in order to cope with the financial crisis the Organization continues to struggle with. Even though there seems to be a consensus concerning the need for further such action, we were not able, during the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, to reach agreement on the measures that are so urgently needed. In our view, it is of the utmost importance that the high-level working group on the financial situation established by the General Assembly should adopt, during the fifty-first session, proposals for a solution of the financial crisis, including the payment of arrears. I should like to take this opportunity to express the support of the Government of Liechtenstein for the proposals that have been put forward by the European Union in this respect. We support ongoing efforts with a view to a reform and enlargement of the Security Council. We are of the view that the reform of the Security Council should be consistent with the principle of the sovereign equality of all States, as enshrined in the Charter. Liechtenstein agrees with those Member countries that have said that with regard to the distribution of new permanent seats, the financial and other contributions to achieving the purposes of the Organization as well as a balanced geographic distribution should be adequately taken into account. Another area of crucial importance for the future work and credibility of our Organization is peacekeeping activities, which attract the particular interest and concern of the world community. The experience of the recent past has made it very clear that the United Nations needs to be better equipped in order to respond effectively and quickly to prevent situations that threaten international peace and security. If we are to enhance the credibility of the United Nations as a whole and the effectiveness of United Nations peace-keeping operations, we have to ensure that every such mission is given a clear mandate and vested with the funds necessary for its full implementation. Very useful proposals to that end have been made by the Secretary-General in his report entitled “An Agenda for Peace”. We have noted with satisfaction the progress made by the Working Group established by the General Assembly to discuss the Agenda for Peace, and the provisional agreements reached by two of the four subgroups dealing with specific aspects of the Agenda for Peace. I wish to express my hope that the two other subgroups, which have to discuss the very important questions of preventive diplomacy and peacemaking, and post-conflict peace-building, respectively, will also be able to conclude their work soon, so a comprehensive agreement on the Agenda for Peace can be adopted. Some of the events that have taken place over the past few years have made it very clear that more attention should be given to preventive diplomacy, which can avert human suffering and reduce costs considerably. One of the situations where determined preventive action is urgently needed is the one that has arisen in Burundi, where patterns of large-scale violations of human rights and the risk of a further worsening of the situation 10 continue to exist. It is indeed disturbing to note that the international community has not been able to take all possible measures to prevent a further deterioration of this situation. Liechtenstein made its own contribution to the furthering of conflict prevention by introducing an initiative on the right of self-determination before the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. It has been stated many times that the vast majority of armed or other violent conflicts today are no longer conflicts between but within States. Such conflicts often have their roots in tensions between communities living within States, and the thrust of the initiative of Liechtenstein is aimed at finding peaceful solutions to such situations before one of the parties involved resorts to violence. It seems to us that the right of self-determination, the exercise of which has played a crucial role in the history of the United Nations, progressively needs to be seen outside its traditional context and should be further developed and adapted to the conditions that prevail in today’s world. Many cases of intra-State conflicts have made clear that it is timely and necessary for the international community to develop mechanisms that will enable communities living within States to exercise the right of self-determination in flexible ways and in accordance with existing international law. The Liechtenstein research programme that was established at Princeton University as part of the contribution of Liechtenstein to the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is intended to provide further know-how for, and assistance in, developing such mechanisms, and I should like to take this opportunity to thank all those countries that continue to support us in this endeavour. As a small State, Liechtenstein attaches the utmost importance to strengthening international law and to effective disarmament. We therefore actively supported the draft resolution, submitted by Australia on behalf of a large number of countries, that enabled us to adopt the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) after lengthy and very difficult negotiations in the Conference on Disarmament. The CTBT will take us one step further towards achieving our goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. The Government of Liechtenstein is of the view that it is a crucial step. Tomorrow, therefore, I will sign the CTBT on behalf of Liechtenstein, and I would like to express our hope that as many countries as possible will do the same. One year ago we met in Beijing and unanimously adopted a Declaration and a Platform for Action that represent a new international commitment to the goals of equality, development and peace for all women in the world. In Liechtenstein we are in the process of preparing the implementation of the Platform for Action, which includes, inter alia: motivation for women to enter politics and to present their candidatures; specific academic and vocational guidance for girls; measures to facilitate the compatibility of professional and family life; and sensitization towards the problem of violence against women and children. Peace is a prerequisite for the attainment of equality between women and men. Unfortunately, aggression and armed and other types of conflict persist in many parts of the world. Women rarely have any role in the decisions leading to armed conflicts, but they contribute to a large extent to preserving social order in times of war and armed conflicts. We believe that women could and should play an increased role in conflict resolution, and we would particularly welcome more women being appointed as Special Representatives of the Secretary-General. There has been a dramatic growth in the need for humanitarian assistance in recent years. The United Nations system, playing a major role in the field of humanitarian relief, has been tested almost to breaking point by recent crises. Complex emergency situations have resulted in increased demands on scarce resources. There has been criticism that as a result of concentration on emergency relief, little effort was made to devise recovery programmes. The humanitarian community will have to play an important role in ensuring the transition from relief to rehabilitation. We should not forget, however, that it has been only four years since humanitarian action provided by the United Nations system was given structure and coherence. Anti-personnel land-mines, with their immensely destructive effects on individuals and communities around the world, are a humanitarian tragedy. Innocent civilians, in particular women, children, refugees and displaced persons, are at greatest risk. Furthermore, mines impede the rehabilitation and reconstruction of societies torn by war. In keeping with its mandate to develop and promote international humanitarian law, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has continuously called attention to weapons whose effects threaten to undermine that law, and we commend the ICRC for its efforts in that respect. I wish to reiterate our call for a total ban on these deadly weapons. We hope that, during this fifty-first session of the General Assembly, we will be able to strengthen the United Nations, which has been indispensable to the international community for more than 50 years, and to enhance its credibility in the eyes of the peoples whom our Organization represents. ﻿First of all, Sir, I offer you my delegation’s heartiest congratulations on the occasion of your election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Your rich experience in bilateral and multilateral diplomacy is, for my delegation, a guarantee for the success of our work. My country, the Republic of Vanuatu, and yours, Malaysia, enjoy friendly and cooperative relations. I also wish to express my country’s thanks to your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the commitment, competence and skill with which he guided our work at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I wish to express my country’s appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the remarkable work that he has consistently done since the very beginning of his term of office in the service of our Organization. I reaffirm here my Government’s support for the principle by which, according to tradition, Africa has a right to a second mandate. My Government has made its modest contribution to disarmament and arms-control measures. This modest contribution has been made in the areas of conventional weapons and weapons of mass destruction alike. With regard to conventional weapons, on 10 July 1996 the Republic of Vanuatu provided the Secretary-General, through the Centre for Disarmament Affairs, with information on imports, exports and the re-exportation of weapons covered by the Register of Conventional Arms established by the Secretary-General under General Assembly resolution 46/36 L of 9 December 1991. The information I have mentioned is contained in the report of the Secretary-General in document A/51/300 of 20 August 1996. I wish to reaffirm the position of the Government of the Republic of Vanuatu on the complete elimination of anti-personnel landmines. Indeed, at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, the Republic of Vanuatu voted in favour of resolution 50/70 O entitled “Moratorium on the export of anti-personnel landmines”. As we all know, the majority of the victims of anti-personnel landmines are women and children. In the area of weapons of mass destruction, my Government has made its modest contribution through measures at both the regional and international levels. Let us take a look first at the regional level. The Republic of Vanuatu acceded last year to the Treaty of Rarotonga establishing the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone. I take this opportunity, on behalf of the people and the Government of the Republic of Vanuatu, to congratulate the United States of America, the French Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which signed the Treaty last year. My Government welcomed the ratification last September by the French Republic of the Protocols to the Rarotonga Treaty and pays tribute to its initiative of sending an expert team from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to conduct a radiological study at the sites of French nuclear tests in French Polynesia. In the area of global nuclear disarmament, on 24 September 1996 I signed, on behalf of my Government, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty adopted by the General Assembly on 10 September 1996. Moreover, my country acceded to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, opened for signature in Moscow, London and Washington on 1 July 1968, and supports the indefinite extension of that Treaty. The Republic of Vanuatu, like other Members of our Organization, took note of the Advisory Opinion rendered last summer by the International Court of Justice, the legal organ of the United Nations, on the legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons. This Advisory Opinion is an additional commitment in favour of nuclear disarmament. The major objective of measures taken and to be taken by the Republic of Vanuatu in the coming years is to demonstrate our commitment to the complete and general disarmament of our entire planet. I would like to express my Government’s views on some regional conflicts, namely, those in the former Yugoslavia in Central Europe, in the Great Lakes region in the heart of the African continent, and in the Middle East. Regarding the situation in the former Yugoslavia in Central Europe, my Government welcomes the elections held on 14 September as an important step forward for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the Great Lakes region of Africa, my Government supports the efforts of our Organization, in close cooperation with the Organization of African Unity, to avert a widespread war in that region. Finally, with respect to the situation in the Middle East, my Government congratulates the Palestinian and Israeli delegations on having decided last Sunday, 6 October 1996, to resume discussions that should lead to a lasting peace in that region. In the area of international law, the United Nations, through the International Law Commission, must continue to play a major role in the codification of international law. In this respect, the Republic of Vanuatu joins with other Members of the United Nations in calling for the convening of an international conference of plenipotentiaries entrusted with considering the draft statute of an international court prepared by the International Law Commission and with concluding a convention establishing an international criminal court. In the area of human rights, in September 1995 the National Parliament of the Republic of Vanuatu adopted a law on the office of mediators. The mediator began his work in late 1995. I take this opportunity to thank the Government of Papua New Guinea, in the context of cooperation between members of the Melanesian Spearhead Group, for its valuable technical assistance in helping my Government to implement fully and with relative celerity the provisions of the aforementioned law. Above and beyond the role of mediator, there is, obviously, the fundamental law — the Constitution of the Republic of Vanuatu — which guarantees the fundamental rights and individual freedoms of all of its citizens. I wish to recall the statement made here by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu at last year’s commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of the Charter of the United Nations, in which he reaffirmed the Government of the Republic of Vanuatu’s support for the reform and rational management of the United Nations system. I also take this opportunity to express my Government’s opinion that the scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of our Organization must faithfully reflect the capacity to pay of the Member States of our Organization. In the area of development, my Government will participate in the special session of the General Assembly next year devoted to the assessment of Agenda 21 and hopes, with other delegations that have expressed this idea here, that new commitments will be undertaken towards the environment. In this respect, the Environment Unit of Vanuatu’s national bureau of the environment, created in 1986 under the auspices of the Ministry of Natural Resources, will work in close collaboration with the environmental programme of the Oceanian region in preparing the Pacific region’s contribution to the work of the special session of the General Assembly. Last year, through a decision of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Decentralization to apply the law on decentralization within the Republic of Vanuatu, my Government reduced the number of provinces from 11 to 6. The purpose of this reduction was, first, to allow the 2 major islands to help the smaller ones; secondly, to allocate financial and human resources to all of the provinces; and, finally, to demonstrate the will of my Government to decentralize administrative and public functions for the benefit of provinces. In other words, it encourages communities and individuals to participate in the economic and social development of the Republic. In this regard, I take this opportunity to thank the United Nations Development Programme in its capacity as a multilateral partner in the regional efforts of all Oceanian States and, more particularly, for its valuable assistance to the Government of the Republic of Vanuatu in drafting its book on sustainable human development in Vanuatu. My Government presented this book to the press on 23 September. In conclusion, I wish to reaffirm here the faith of the Republic of Vanuatu in the United Nations.  ﻿It gives me pleasure, as we begin the work of this session, to convey to you, Sir, on behalf of the delegation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, our sincerest congratulations on your election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Your assumption of that important position reflects the appreciation of Member States both of your personal qualities and of the positive role your country plays in the international arena. We wish you success in fulfilling your mission and assure you of our readiness and desire to cooperate with you fully in achieving the objectives of this session. I wish also to take this opportunity to congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his effective guidance of the affairs of the General Assembly last session, which witnessed the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization. I would also like to convey my sincere appreciation to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who manages the affairs of this international Organization with exceptional ability and competence in a rapidly changing world. In order to deal with increasing expectations regarding the present and future role of the United Nations, we consider that a renewal of his tenure will provide him the opportunity to complete ongoing plans and efforts to reform the United Nations and to restore its constructive role in the international arena. A year has passed since we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. That celebration, attended by many world leaders, gave us a valuable opportunity to recall the importance of the role of the United Nations in maintaining international peace and security and in enhancing international legitimacy. It also provided us with an opportunity to review the Organization’s accomplishments and challenges over the past 50 years. The current session of the General Assembly marks the beginning of a new era for the United Nations, which we hope will witness a consolidation of its role on the international scene to the benefit of Member States and in accordance with the principles and purposes of the Charter. It is our firm belief that this international forum can play an extremely important and effective role in managing crises, in averting wars and conflicts, and in providing the means for international cooperation. This obliges us to be more persistent than ever before in supporting this institution and enhancing its constructive role. The changes which have occurred in the world over the past decade are so dramatic that they have created a new international reality with a host of new challenges. These developments offer new opportunities to bolster the principles of the United Nations for the benefit of strengthening international legitimacy including justice and equality among nations, the rejection of the use of force in the settlement of conflicts, the preservation of the dignity of mankind, and providing security and prosperity for all. We should also recall the fact, to which many world leaders referred during the fiftieth anniversary celebrations, that the ability of this international Organization to resolve global problems, crises and conflicts depends greatly on the political will of Member States to abide by the principles of the United Nations. It is our hope that the future will witness greater determination by Member States to ensure the achievement of the objectives upon which the future of our Organization depends, a future which is also ours. 8 The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is fully cognizant of the importance of reforming United Nations bodies so that they may fulfil their prescribed roles and deal effectively with the global changes we have witnessed in recent years. Among these bodies, the Security Council, as the principal organ directly concerned with the maintenance of international peace and security, remains the focus for reform. My country’s view was and remains that any changes to the structure of the Security Council should be geared towards enhancing its ability to accomplish its role effectively as stipulated in the Charter and to refrain from any action that would limit its effectiveness in fulfilling its purposes. Arab leaders, at their summit meeting in Cairo last June, expressed their firm commitment to continue the peace process which they regard as an irreversible strategic goal. The Cairo meeting reaffirmed that the realization of a just and comprehensive peace within the realm of international legitimacy presupposes a serious and unequivocal commitment by Israel to abide by the principles of the Madrid Peace Conference and Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), as well as by the land-for-peace formula. The Arab leaders also reaffirmed that any breach by Israel of these principles and agreed-upon commitments and agreements, or any delay in their implementation, would result in a setback to the peace process, with all its dangerous consequences. We view with great concern the Israeli Government’s failure to demonstrate a degree of seriousness and commitment to the peace process comparable to that demonstrated by the Arab States. Since assuming office, the Government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has continued to issue statements and undertake actions that do not serve the cause of peace. In contrast to the Arab States’ commitment to the Madrid principles, to Security Council resolutions and to the land-for-peace formula, the statements made by the Israeli Government indicate an insistence on consolidating of its occupation of Arab lands; maintaining its annexation of East Jerusalem; and delaying the agreed-upon redeployment of its troops from Al-Khalil. We are also concerned by the Israeli Government’s continued closure of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, together with its proclaimed rejection of withdrawing from the Syrian Golan Heights. Recently, the Israeli authorities opened a tunnel under the Al-Aqsa Mosque. This was a flagrant infringement upon the Islamic sanctuaries and a clear violation of binding international resolutions on the status of Jerusalem. We welcome Security Council resolution 1073 (1996), which the Council issued after the events that resulted from the Israeli measures. We hope that the summit conference sponsored by the President of the United States of America will help with the implementation of that Security Council resolution and give momentum to the peace process on the basis of that resolution and in accordance with its principles. Statements by the Israeli Prime Minister that Israel is prepared to resume negotiations without preconditions are no more than an attempt to distance himself from the Madrid-based principles and fundamentals of the peace process, in particular the land-for-peace formula. Such a position can only mark a serious setback. Hence, we call upon the United States of America and the Russian Federation, as the co-sponsors of the Madrid Peace Conference, to do their utmost to continue the peace process on all tracks in order to reach the desired results. In this context we value the positive and constructive positions on this matter reflected in the Florence statement of the European Union and the Lyon statement of the Group of Seven. Furthermore, we reiterate our call to all parties concerned to fulfil their commitments to provide economic assistance to the Palestinian people. While we call upon members of the international community to increase their economic assistance to the Palestinian Authority, we should remember the need to deal with actions undertaken by the Israeli Government which might prevent the Palestinians from benefiting from this aid. Moreover, any efforts to achieve regional cooperation will be meaningless and ineffective unless accompanied by tangible progress in the peace process on all its tracks. We are greatly concerned about the issue of Jerusalem — Al-Quds Al-Sharif — which is at the heart of the Arab-Israeli conflict and is of utmost concern to the Arab and Muslim world. The manner in which this issue is dealt with could determine the future of the peace process. We regret to see the Israeli authorities continue their measures aimed at changing the demographic composition and creating new realities in the status of Jerusalem with the intention of prejudicing the negotiations on the final status of the city. We believe that in any settlement of this issue Israel must take into consideration internationally binding resolutions legality, in particular Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), which calls on Israel to withdraw from occupied Arab terri tories, and 252 (1968) pertaining to Al-Quds Al-Sharif. We also believe that any settlement should take into account the importance of the repatriation of Palestinian refugees and the release of Palestinian prisoners who have been detained in violation of the 9 Declaration of Principles, international law and the Geneva Conventions. The honourable and firm stand taken by the international community following the brutal Iraqi aggression against the State of Kuwait in 1990, including the adoption of a series of historic Security Council resolutions to repel the aggression and restore to the State of Kuwait its legitimacy and sovereignty, constitutes the kind of firmness we hope the United Nations will always demonstrate. The position of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on this issue is unwavering, and is based on two fundamental principles. So long as the Iraqi Government has not fully complied with the internationally binding demands set out in Council resolutions, the problem will not be solved and the suffering of the Iraqi people will not be mitigated. This is a matter of deep concern for all of us. We believe that recent developments in northern Iraq could have adverse effects on the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq, since certain neighbouring countries have in various ways attempted to interfere in the Kurdish conflict. In the light of these realities, we have to be very careful lest the situation lead to a collapse of the international coalition which is responsible for full implementation of all relevant Security Council resolutions, the foremost of which relate to the release and repatriation of all prisoners of war and detainees from Kuwait and other countries, the return of stolen assets, compliance with the mechanism for compensation, and full cooperation with the efforts of the United Nations Special Commission to oversee the elimination of Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction. These are the objectives the international coalition should strive to fulfil, bearing in mind the need to avoid any measures that might damage the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq. The Government of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques expressed great interest in efforts to eliminate all weapons of mass destruction from the Middle East, including those aimed at keeping that sensitive part of the world free of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. In this perspective, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia actively participated in the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) held in New York last year, and welcomed the efforts that have led to an agreement on the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We believe in the need to make the NPT more effective and universal through the activation of the safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency. We also see a need to adopt measures and criteria that would enhance all aspects of the process of dismantling weapons of mass destruction in accordance with General Assembly resolution 1 (I), which addresses, inter alia, the issue of eliminating all weapons of mass destruction. In this respect, we urge all States that have not yet become parties to the Treaty to take the necessary steps to do so, thus contributing to the maintenance of world peace and stability. The occupation by the Islamic Republic of Iran of three islands belonging to the United Arab Emirates — Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb — is a source of great concern, not only to the United Arab Emirates, but also to the States of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) as a whole, which desire the best possible relations with their neighbour, Iran. We have repeatedly urged the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond to the call of the United Arab Emirates to settle this long-standing problem peacefully through serious bilateral negotiations. Consequently, we reiterate our call upon the Government of Iran to cease imposing a status quo by force and to halt preparations for unilateral construction on any of the three islands. Furthermore, we also call upon the Government of Iran to initiate efforts to resolve this dispute peacefully in accordance with the norms and principles of international law, including the referral of this matter to the International Court of Justice. In view of the persistence of the conflict, the Security Council should place this issue on its agenda. Based on the determination of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to maintain the security and stability of the Arabian Gulf region, we support the wise actions of the State of Bahrain to foster its security and stability. These actions were approved and supported by the GCC and the League of Arab States, since the security of the State of Bahrain is part and parcel of the security of the GCC States. Nearly 10 months have passed since the signing of the Dayton Agreement, which brought an end to the violence and destruction that accompanied the Serb aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina. This Agreement did not materialize until the international community expressed sufficient will and firmness to stem the Serb aggression. We hope that the recent elections will mark a new beginning and a new future of peace, stability and economic development for the country. 10 Nonetheless, we must point out that the peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina will remain fragile until it takes root. The reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international support necessary to help it address the problems resulting from years of war should be viewed as conditions of peace without which the goals of the Dayton Agreement can never be realized. It is also important to emphasize the need to apprehend and bring to justice the perpetrators of crimes against humanity and to ban them from any political office in the future. Their apprehension is an international responsibility that should not be taken lightly. It is also incumbent upon the international community to confront any attempt to divide the country along ethnic or religious lines. Helping Bosnia and Herzegovina set out on the road to peace early this year was the first of a series of positive developments in many troubled areas of the world. We hope that the recent announcement of an agreement between the Government of the Philippines and the Moro National Liberation Front will mark the end of confrontation between the Philippine authorities and their Muslim minority after a long period of tension and conflict. As for the conflict in Chechnya, we hope the current truce and reports of the Russian Government’s intention to withdraw its forces from the area will pave the way for a resolution of this crisis. Unfortunately, the statuses of other conflicts have not changed. The Pakistani-Indian dispute over Jammu and Kashmir is still tense and complicated. There is no alternative to following the peaceful path based on the resolutions of the United Nations guaranteeing the people of Jammu and Kashmir the exercise of their right to self- determination. The situation in Somalia remains desperate. The country is awaiting a decision by the clan leaders on a process to save the country and its people. We urge all factions to put aside their differences and shoulder their national responsibilities by forming a national authority representing the different factions of the Somali people in order to restore unity, stability and security to that country. In Afghanistan — in spite of all the sincere efforts of the United Nations and all the good offices of the Government of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques to achieve national reconciliation in that country — the fighting still rages between the different factions as a result of disagreements between their leaders. This has prevented the country from enjoying the fruits of its victory against foreign occupation. The issue of international terrorism was the main topic throughout last year. Many conferences and workshops addressed ways and means of confronting this growing phenomenon, which has become a source of grave concern for the international community. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, recognizing the need to confront and address this serious phenomenon, has voiced its support for all international efforts to confront this problem. This position was illustrated collectively in the statement issued by the Gulf Cooperation Council following its last session. The GCC States have emphasized that extremism, violence and terrorism are global phenomena that are not limited to a specific people or region and have unambiguously denounced and condemned all forms of violence and terrorism. They also expressed their support for all international efforts aimed at preventing and combating terrorism, including denying safe haven to terrorists anywhere and making efforts to apprehend, convict and severely punish those involved in such crimes. A cursory review of world economic problems and the role of the United Nations in overseeing international economic cooperation shows that the success of the United Nations in dealing with economic issues and promoting international development has also been tied to the commitment of Member States to the United Nations Charter. Although the international community has succeeded, by dint of serious negotiations, in resolving many difficult problems and has achieved important results in many sensitive areas through the establishment of the World Trade Organization, we are still concerned by the continuing practice of trade protectionism, which runs counter to our belief in the importance of allowing market forces to play their natural role in economic affairs. It is also necessary to free international trade from certain restrictions, such as that of using the pretext of protecting the environment as a justification for protectionist measures. Such restrictions undermine the economies of developing nations and have a negative impact on their development, which is the cornerstone of their peace and stability. The Secretary-General has taken a commendable initiative in this direction with his “An Agenda for Development”, which, given concerted effort, could become a realistic tool for enhancing global economic and 11 social development. Here, the developed countries in particular bear a special responsibility for building fruitful cooperation to the benefit all countries, rich and poor. We believe that an increase in the amount of assistance provided by developed to developing countries is a cornerstone of such hoped-for cooperation. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, a founding Member of the international Organization and a signatory of the San Francisco Charter, is eager to have the United Nations continue to play its leadership role in strengthening collective security. It reaffirms its responsibilities as a founding Member of the Organization. This reaffirmation was reiterated in a speech by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Fahd Bin Abdul-Aziz, which was delivered on his behalf by His Royal Highness Prince Sultan Bin Abdul-Aziz, Second Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence and Aviation, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. Today, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia takes this opportunity to reconfirm its continued commitment to achieving the objectives of the United Nations Charter. It will spare no effort to enhance the capabilities of the United Nations in order to achieve justice and to promote security, stability and prosperity throughout our troubled world. The Holy Koran provides us with guidance to lead us towards creative actions, as exemplified in the following verse: “And say: Work righteousness. Soon will God observe your work, And His Apostle, and the Believers.'” (The Holy Koran, IX:105)  ﻿Last year we met in a celebratory mood. But after every party comes the sober dawn, and we now face the sombre reality that the United Nations risks marginalization. Its role in the twenty-first century is not to be taken for granted. The sad truth is that today the United Nations plays little or no practical role in the management of the most important political, strategic and economic questions of our time. But this was not always the case as we recall: the United Nations played a significant role in easing the pangs of decolonization. Even at the height of the cold war, the United Nations was not an unimportant instrument through which the super-Powers could manage regional proxy conflicts and, on occasion, even direct nuclear confrontation. This contrast with its past should lead us to regard the present and future of the United Nations with deep concern. We can no longer postpone a critical examination of fundamental issues. It is for this reason that my delegation is especially gratified to see Malaysia occupy the presidency of the General Assembly at this important turning point for the future of the United Nations. We in the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) know Tan Sri Razali Ismail for his commitment and clear thinking. I can do no better than echo what you, Mr. President, said about reform in the first plenary meeting of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session; we entirely agree with you. The interminable debates about the need for United Nations reform have led to precious little real reform. These debates have served to conceal and not to clarify basic issues. An important theme has been the need for greater efficiency; we all support that. No one can seriously argue against more productivity, better management and less waste. The key question, however, is: efficient to do what? What kind of United Nations do we really want and for what purposes? We all know that the purposes of the United Nations are enshrined in the very first Article of the Charter. Nevertheless, the answers are not self- evident. We all know that the first of the United Nations purposes is “To maintain international peace and security”. But what does this mean? The more extravagant post-cold war hopes for a new Agenda for Peace have proved illusory. The failure of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) raises troubling questions about the role of the United Nations after the cold war. The essential lesson to be drawn from UNPROFOR’s fate is not merely how the Security Council became a political theatre to assuage the domestic concerns of some of its principal members; nor is it only the truism that the United Nations could do no more than what its principal members allowed it to do. The real tragedy for the United Nations in Bosnia is that when the major Powers finally decided to get serious about what they determined to be a threat to international peace and security, their preferred instrument was clearly not the United Nations. Again, we all agree that poverty breeds conflict, and that the gap between the rich and poor is widening. Yet the Agenda for Development has been mired in theological arguments about the definition of sustainable development. Now I do not mean to suggest that clarity of objectives is unimportant. But the real issues are not that complicated, because what the least developed most urgently need is not intellectual sophistry but help: help to build the institutions and formulate the policies that will allow them to plug into the global economy. The United Nations has not adequately met these challenges. The stalemate in reform is not merely because of the difficulty of the questions or because of conflicting interests. Of course, the issues are thorny and differences in interests inevitable in any system of sovereign States. That is precisely why we need the United Nations, as the Charter envisages, “to be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations”. Why then is the United Nations today less able to perform this vital function? In my view, it is because it has been reluctant to adequately confront the implications of the two most significant developments of our time. First, the end of the cold war and, secondly, the emergence of a truly global world economy. The conjunction of these two events is changing the manner in which States relate to each other in unprecedented and fundamental ways. Yet these developments are at best 12 only imperfectly reflected in the United Nations. And any international organization that divorces itself from international realities has no future. The most obvious consequence for the United Nations since the end of the cold war has been the great increase in membership. But the change in the nature of Members has occasioned less comment. In 1945, small States, which I define as those having a population of 10 million or less, formed 59 per cent of a United Nations with 51 Members. Half a century later, in 1995, small States by the same definition formed the same percentage of a United Nations of 185 Members. And 23 of the 26 countries — more than 88 per cent — that joined the United Nations after 1989 were also small States. I expect that when the United Nations membership expands further, as it surely must, the majority of new Members will also be small States. This is because changes in the structure of the international economy engendered by technological advances and the end of the cold war have made size less important in the determination of a country’s viability. What matters most today is not merely the extent of a State’s frontiers or the wealth of its resources; the key is the ability of a State to integrate itself as part of a network, and size is irrelevant to this. The most important international networks are not composed of relations between States. The critical networks are increasingly defined by transnational patterns of relationships between cities, regions and subregions that may only imperfectly fit in with the formal political boundaries of individual States. This again makes a country’s size or its resources less important than its ability to access these networks. It is a fact that many small countries are also among the less developed. This is not surprising given the skewed distribution of international wealth. But the significant point is that to be small is no longer an automatic or fatal disability. It can even be advantageous. This has emboldened many to seek self-determination. And since the same trends have loosened the ability of capitals to control their peripheries, many have succeeded. Where economics leads, politics inevitably follows. Paradoxically, the political consequence of increasing economic integration of a globalized world economy is a certain loosening of political bonds. We see the effects of this most dramatically in the physical breakup of large and diverse States. But these are exceptional situations. Even when, as is more usual, the formal political boundaries remain intact, the ability of capitals of large and relatively homogeneous States to impose a single direction over all their constituent parts is clearly diminishing. Power is devolving everywhere. This trend is a new international reality. I do not wish to overstate the argument. So long as sovereignty remains the chief organizing principle of the international system, the exercise of force cannot be discounted in inter-State relations. In war, size is not entirely irrelevant, even though technology has made it something less than the totally decisive factor it was in the past. But war is an extreme condition of international relations. Under normal conditions, the very notions of power and wealth are being redefined and becoming more diffuse, their different dimensions less prone to be focused in just a few world capitals. Hierarchy is still a fact of international life. But what does it really mean to be a “great Power” at the end of the twentieth century? The very phrase today sounds anachronistic. Bereft of a simple strategic enemy, the post-cold-war foreign policy decision-making of the major Powers is increasingly localized, with domestic politics exercising greater impact. The policies of big Powers in a globalized world, where the economic and other interests of their component parts may be at odds with those of the capital, is becoming less coherent. The very notion of a single national interest is becoming somewhat ambiguous. All this is making it increasingly difficult for even the biggest countries to routinely bring their power to bear in an interdependent world, where an attack on an opponent may well damage their own interests. Wielding power is becoming more unpredictable even for those who control its greatest instruments. It is not an accident that the big Powers are now somewhat more cautious about exercising power nakedly save in exceptional circumstances and against States that are marginal in the global economy. I do not mean to suggest that the traditional notion of international relations structured by the interactions of a few big Powers pursuing their individual national interests is entirely obsolete. But it is surely an inadequate description of the world today. The balance of military power is still important. But the strict distinction between high politics and low politics on which the traditional balance of power rested is increasingly blurred. Now, all this ought to make a consultative, multilateral process more attractive to everyone, and not 13 less attractive. Alas, this is not so. Herein lies the root of the problems of the United Nations. All States, big and small, are adjusting to the changing international system. Indeed they have no choice. But not all are choosing to do so in or through the United Nations. In the United Nations, most of the Powers that we traditionally designate as “great” have reacted with varying degrees of disquiet to these new international realities. Some, troubled by their decreasing ability to control events even within their own frontiers, are frustrated at their inability to impose their order on what is perceived as a recalcitrant, unfamiliar and intrusive Organization. Others see a threat to their position and prestige. Psychological adjustments are always the most difficult to make. It is thus not surprising that in the United Nations their reflex reaction has generally been a stubborn defence of the status quo. In discussions on United Nations reform, this simple fact is all too often obscured by the use of arcane and convoluted jargon. I am encouraged, Mr. President, by your reputation for plain speaking, for pulling aside the veil of rhetoric and letting the truth be known. If the United Nations is to be marginalized, let the responsibility clearly be seen to lie where it should. This is most evident in the two most critical and inter-related areas: Security Council reform and finance. Discussions on Security Council reform have emphasized the Council's size and composition, and in particular the possibility of the admission of new permanent members. There is a wide consensus that in the event that there should be agreement for an increase in the permanent membership, an increase only by industrialised countries would be unacceptable. Many countries agree that Japan and Germany should become new permanent members when consensus is reached on the expansion of the Security Council. Nevertheless, crucial ambiguities remain about whether new permanent members should have the veto. It is especially difficult to imagine major Powers allowing developing countries the veto over their policies. And therefore the stalemate continues. There is also widespread agreement that Security Council reform should comprise a comprehensive package that would include changes in the working methods of the Security Council in the direction of greater transparency and participation by the membership of the Organization as a whole. But the permanent members have been reluctant to admit any but the most cosmetic of changes to the Security Council’s working methods. Yet this is the most critical aspect of Security Council reform for the small States which form the majority of United Nations Members. Small countries do not aspire to permanent membership. But as the principal organ for the maintenance of international peace and security, the Security Council’s working methods and its decision- making processes are of vital and legitimate interest to them because they can have direct a impact on their security. One of the most important and innovative proposals currently on the table is for a reinterpretation of Article 31 of the Charter. This would allow greater participation by non-members in informal Security Council consultations when questions affecting them are being considered. It was extremely discouraging that this modest proposal was categorically rejected by almost every permanent member. Indeed, most refused even to seriously discuss it. It must surely be a basic principle of elementary justice that parties most directly affected by a particular situation should be allowed to present their views directly to the body that will have the most influence over any action that the United Nations may take on that situation. That is in fact the precise reason why Article 31 was included in the Charter in the first place. The intention was clearly to reconcile great-Power leadership with the principle of sovereign equality. Informal consultations are an innovation that has evolved over the years. All the most important decisions the Security Council takes today are made informally by permanent members. Even the participation of non- permanent members in the real decisions is sometimes more symbolic than significant. Formal meetings are clearly only a choreographed ritual to set the final seal of approval. A reinterpretation of Article 31 would not require an amendment to the Charter, nor would it mean that non-members must participate in all informal consultations. It is therefore no real threat to the authority of the permanent members; it is just an important reform that would undoubtedly enhance the legitimacy, and hence the general acceptability and effectiveness, of Security Council decision-making by bringing the process more in tune with the temper of our times. I do not wish to be misunderstood. I am not suggesting that the size and composition of the Security Council are unimportant. I understand the merit of the claims for new permanent membership that have been advanced by both industrialized and developing countries. Singapore supports the expansion of the Security Council by up to five new permanent members as part of a 14 comprehensive package that would, among other things, include the consequent adjustment of non-permanent membership to maintain a balanced ratio. But given the profound changes in international relations that are under way, refusing to seriously discuss anything but membership, and even that with critical ambiguities, would be akin to trying to prepare the United Nations for the twenty-first century by applying a nineteenth-century model of great- Power politics to it. The same resistance to seriously engaging the legitimate interests of the small-State majority of United Nations Members also underlies the financial problems of the United Nations. No one disagrees that the key reason for the cash flow problems of the United Nations is the failure of Member States to pay their dues in full and on time. There are various reasons why various Member States have not met their legal obligations. Some are poor. But no one has ever suggested that the largest debtor lacks the capacity to pay. Its argument is that its assessed contributions must be reduced because the state of its domestic political consensus does not permit it to sustain its current share of the United Nations budget. The financial burdens, it is consequently argued, ought therefore be more widely spread. I do not lightly dismiss such arguments. They reflect the increasing difficulty of defining and exercising great power that I had earlier called one of the new international realities. I can therefore sympathize with such arguments. But it is not politically acceptable to pick and choose which of the new realities to emphasize when useful, and which to ignore when inconvenient. Several permanent members have complained of the financial burdens they bear, and have sought to spread them more widely. But there has never been any suggestion by any of the big Powers that their control over critical United Nations expenditure decisions, in particular peacekeeping expenditures, should be proportionately diffused among the majority of small countries which would be expected to take up the financial slack that they want to discard. All the permanent members have been reluctant to allow anything more than the most superficial reexamination of their authority or their relationship with the membership as a whole. Discussions on the role of the General Assembly, which is the only universal and truly representative United Nations organ, have touched mainly on peripheral issues, such as the timing of plenary meetings, the duration of the general debate and the organization of the General Assembly’s work. No one should disagree that to put the United Nations on a sound financial basis ought to be a common endeavour. We certainly do not. But it must really be a collective enterprise involving fair give and take. Political resistance coalesces because it has become clear that the majority are expected to give, while the few only take. Resistance is underscored by the historical fact that the percentage financial contributions of all permanent members, except France, have been steadily reduced over the years while their privileges have not. Resistance is strengthened by the recollection that the United Nations has in fact repeatedly made the financial adjustments asked for, but as yet without any appreciable change in the payment record of the largest contributor. I do not suggest that this situation is the result of a deliberate policy, since no country takes any pleasure in being unable to pay its dues for whatever reason. But it is politically incongruous and basically unfair to ask the majority to assume a greater share of the financial burdens without at the same time being prepared to allow them any more authority over the most important expenditure decisions. It is untenable to have an almost total separation between the authority for launching peacekeeping operations and how and who should pay for them. The United Nations is the only organization in which a small number of Members run up the largest bills while everybody else pays them. The stubborn defence of the status quo is all the more striking because no one has asked for anything more than the most modest and incremental adjustments to the relationship between the General Assembly and the Security Council to allow the general membership a little greater participation in and shared responsibility for the decision-making with the greatest budgetary implications. Singapore is, of course, a small State, and I do not claim to be a disinterested party. As a small State, we are passionately concerned about and vitally engaged in the future of the United Nations. However, our drawing attention to the real obstacles to reform is not just in the interests of small countries alone. I have suggested that the paradoxical political consequence of a globalized world economy is a certain enhancement of centrifugal tendencies everywhere. A universal international organization to play an integrative role is therefore needed by everyone, big and small, if this is not to lead to conflict. Only the United Nations can play this role, and if it did not exist, we would have had to invent it. But the United Nations can play this 15 integrative role only if the legitimate aspirations of the small States are not ignored and if the majority do not become increasingly alienated from the very Organization that purports to represent them. Some may dismiss the distance between the rhetoric and the reality of the big-Power attitude towards United Nations reform as simple hypocrisy. I do not accept such a simplistic explanation. I can empathize with the far more complex and wrenching psychological adjustments that the big Powers need to make. The big Powers must summon the political courage to begin this process and embrace the reality of, and necessity for, change. I appeal to them to work with us, the small-State majority, to make this truly a United Nations for all — all — its Members. Prestige does not depend solely on privilege, and power shared is not power lost. The new international realities are making a zero-sum conception of State power obsolete. A credible United Nations, one that is not regarded as the mere tool of its largest Members, will be a more effective instrument for the foreign policies of all its Members, big and small. In closing, let me say that my delegation looks forward to close collaboration with you, Sir, and all other members over the next year to advance a collective vision of a truly representative, effective and united United Nations for the twenty-first century.  ﻿Allow me to convey the congratulations of the Government and the people of Bolivia, President Razali Ismail, on your unanimous election, which is a token of the admiration and esteem in which the peoples of the world hold Malaysia and constitutes just recognition of your merits. My delegation is grateful to the President of the Assembly at its previous session, Ambassador Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the remarkable job he did. For the delegation of Bolivia, it was a distinct honour to serve as Vice-President of the Assembly under his able guidance. I wish also to congratulate Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali and extend to him our most sincere appreciation for his valuable contributions to international peace and cooperation, as well as for his insightful and untiring dedication to the cause of the United Nations. Allow me first to refer to some aspects of the far- reaching structural reform in my country. Domestically, since 1993, the Administration of President Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada has been simultaneously transforming the State and the system of social participation, while also adapting the productive base of society to enable Bolivia to dynamically meet the demands inherent to the changes in contemporary international life. The Government of Bolivia’s current efforts are essentially based on the consolidation of participatory democratic institutions and on the conviction that economic development must be compatible with care for nature and the environment — in other words, that this must take place within the framework of sustainable development and of respect for ethnic and cultural diversity, in order to make unity in diversity possible. My Government’s national plan confers the highest priority on the struggle against poverty. It strives vigorously to increase work opportunities and seeks a better quality of life for all Bolivians, aiming to enter the twenty-first century with a modern, decentralized, participatory State. This perspective guides our policies of grass-roots participation, educational reform, and capitalization of major public enterprises. Part and parcel of this landscape of change are our initiatives in support of children, women and the elderly. We are working hard to reduce infant and maternal mortality, to improve levels of nutrition and to provide assistance to those who most urgently need it. These tasks are an essential aspect of our effort to improve the lot of poor families. My country is proud of its pluri-cultural and multi-ethnic character, and it is therefore taking important initiatives for the advancement of indigenous peoples. The Vice-President of the Republic, Victor Hugo Cárdenas, is a distinguished representative of Bolivia’s Aymará people. In the international arena, we are actively pursuing peaceful coexistence among States and trying to make international justice a reality. Our position is based on the principles of equal rights of States, non-intervention in internal affairs, non-recognition of territorial acquisitions by force, respect for human rights and the other fundamental principles of international law. The support we give to intergovernmental organizations, particularly the United Nations and the Organization of American States (OAS), reflects our confidence in the potential of multilateral cooperation in a world that is growing ever more complex and interdependent. At the regional level, we are seeking the economic integration of Latin America and the Caribbean with the aim of establishing optimal conditions for forging a hemispheric community and establishing a united presence as the world opens up and markets expand. We are seeking the closest possible ties with countries that share our subregional realities, and we are committed to merging the various integration processes. That policy has prompted Bolivia to sign an agreement forming a free- trade area with the members of the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) — Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay — to sign agreements aimed at updating and reinvigorating the Andean Common Market, made up of Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela, and to give effect to numerous bilateral treaties to enhance mutual complementarity on the basis of our experiences and the need to foster material and spiritual exchanges between nations. The physical integration of the countries of the region constitutes another central issue deserving priority attention. We are working actively on the definition of inter-oceanic corridors, and we attach great importance to the future of the Plata Basin and the Treaty for Amazonian Cooperation. With regard to Bolivia’s maritime question, I must inform the international community, as we have done every year, that Bolivia has reiterated in various forums its political willingness to begin negotiations that take proper account of the interests of all the parties involved and ensure Bolivia’s sovereign presence with regard to the Pacific Ocean. No clear willingness to engage in dialogue can yet be seen. However, on the basis of contacts on this matter we can say that, despite historical difficulties and ultranationalist suspicions, minds are opening and objective foundations are being laid with a view to encouraging a timely solution to old problems through the exchange of ideas, the nurturing of mutual trust, mutual interest and hemispheric understanding, in the hope that, before long, brotherhood, equality, justice and the requirements of international peace and cooperation will truly prevail. This year Bolivia had the honour to act as pro tempore secretariat of the Rio Group, a high-level forum of consultation and political coordination for an important group of Latin American and Caribbean States. In that capacity, Bolivia was the venue of the sixth regular meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Rio Group and the European Union, held last April in the city of Cochabamba. On that occasion we reaffirmed our readiness for joint endeavours between Latin America, the Caribbean and Western Europe. The meeting strengthened ties between the two regions, based on respect for human rights, the fundamental rights of citizens and the principles of democracy and political pluralism. The Ministers highlighted, inter alia, the danger of drugs and related problems, recognizing the importance of maintaining political dialogue on this issue at the highest level and agreeing on the need to strengthen the United Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP). The meeting called upon the international community to deal with the phenomenon of drugs through joint action based on the principle of global, shared responsibility. To that end, consideration and support were given to the proposal to hold a special session of the General Assembly in 1998 to address this crucial issue. Worldwide awareness of the need for joint action is reaching its peak, and Bolivia hopes that the proposed meeting will lay down positive guidelines to put an end to the scourge of drugs. I am also pleased to inform representatives that on 3 and 4 September 1996, again in the Bolivian city of Cochabamba, the Meeting of Heads of State of the Rio Group took place, on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the creation of that standing body. It was 2 a great honour for my country to welcome such illustrious guests. The Presidents and Prime Minister gathered there noted with satisfaction that our region had made significant headway in fighting international crime. As evidence of this, they pointed to the signing in Caracas of the Inter- American Convention against Corruption, the results of the Specialized Inter-American Conference on Terrorism, held in Lima, and advances in the development of a hemispheric strategy against drugs and related crimes in the framework of the Inter-American Commission against Drug Abuse. The Heads of State and Government expressed their satisfaction at the fact that our region had become the first nuclear-weapon-free zone through the adoption of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean. The Final Declaration of the tenth summit expressed the joint position of the Governments of the region on the issues of representative democracy and the eradication of poverty. It placed on record their deep conviction with regard to sustainable development; it set forth precise guidelines on regional integration and trade; it expressed a firm resolve to press ahead in the fight against drugs and related crimes; it emphasized, in particular, the importance of the Inter-American Convention against Corruption; and it reiterated emphatically the crucial importance Governments, from their position of lofty responsibility, attached to cultural integration. My delegation has requested that the Secretariat of the United Nations circulate the final document of the Cochabamba meeting to all delegations in the General Assembly. With regard to the matter of the extraterritoriality of national laws, a most sensitive issue for peoples and Governments the world over, the Rio Group summit meeting expressed its rejection of any attempt to use a country’s domestic legislation to impose unilateral sanctions of an extraterritorial character, as this contravenes the standards governing coexistence between States, disregards the fundamental principle of respect for sovereignty and is a clear violation of international law. Bolivia is confident that intelligence and fairness will prevail on this delicate matter and that a solution will soon be found, in the interest of international coexistence and economic and commercial freedom for all peoples of the world. One of the most outstanding international developments of our time was undoubtedly the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. With the aim of laying the groundwork for a hemispheric agenda for sustainable development, several international meetings, starting with the Summit held in Miami in 1994, have expressed support for the decision to hold a hemispheric meeting at the level of Heads of State and Government in the Bolivian city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, scheduled for 7 and 8 December of this year. That meeting will be a new opportunity to set the course of national and international endeavours for sustainable development in the light of economic, social and environmental goals and in reaffirmation of the importance of obtaining new and additional resources to finance the plan of action to be adopted. Bolivia has offered to work its hardest alongside its sister nations to ensure the success of this major hemispheric event and is certain that inter-American solidarity will lead to positive results. The agenda of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly contains more than 160 items of particular interest to the international community. My Government is prepared to participate constructively in the consideration and resolution of each of them. We are concerned with problems of international peace and security and trust that the United Nations system will contribute effectively to finding solutions for the many parts of the world beset by conflicts and war. As I stated on a previous occasion, Bolivia is of the view that many conflict situations can be explained by the persistence of unresolved social and national problems, as well as by the accumulation of age-old injustices and resentments; by geopolitical and economic interests that for decades have been fuelling confrontation from without and from within; and, above all, by Governments’ inability to cooperate effectively so as to provide timely and peaceful solutions to the problems of greatest national concern. We have participated in the debates on reforms of the United Nations Charter, and we believe that it is of the utmost importance to reach consensus in order to strengthen the multilateral system in the interests of the world community. We support the positions set forth by the Non-Aligned Movement in this regard. 3 Difficult international circumstances are making it increasingly clear that the United Nations needs to be strengthened, to adapt its structures and strengthen the Organization as a legitimate forum for the study, coordination, follow-up and implementation of universally accepted policies. Accordingly, Bolivia considers it essential to strengthen the General Assembly, the Security Council and the role of the International Court of Justice. With regard to the expansion of the Security Council, we consider it necessary that Germany and Japan be present as new permanent members and that three other permanent members from Asia, Africa, and Latin America and the Caribbean be selected. The expansion should be complemented by an appropriate number of non-permanent members from the developing world. Of course, if consensus could be reached on other formulas, then other proposals, such as the one presented by Italy, would need to be considered. With regard to the veto, Bolivia shares the view that, ideally, the international community should move towards eliminating this device — and, one would hope, in the not- too-distant future. In the meantime, use of this device should be strictly limited to actions relating to cases of threats to the peace, breach of the peace or acts of aggression referred to in Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. Bolivia is greatly concerned about the political and social situation in many African countries. We express our solidarity with these countries, as we did to fraternal South Africa during its times of trial, and we urge the international community, especially the rich countries of the world, to cooperate generously and resolutely in order to cope with the grave economic problems of this continent. We also express our solidarity with our brothers in the Middle East. We believe that the time has come to heal old wounds and frame the terms of a just and lasting peace, taking into account the need for secure borders for all and definitively resolving the situation through the creation of a Palestinian state. A solution must also be found to the questions of Jerusalem and the Golan Heights, and the territorial integrity and full sovereignty of all States of the region must be preserved. We rejoice in the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has embarked upon a new road to understanding, unity and construction of new democratic institutions. The brotherly nations of Asia offer us remarkable examples of the possibilities and opportunities for accelerated economic development. Their successes fill us with confidence, and we are certain that they will apply the same wisdom to finding solutions to the social and political problems that some of them still face. We are convinced that the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty, adopted by the General Assembly on 10 September of this year, represents a landmark along the road to the total elimination of nuclear weapons. Bolivia has signed the papers of accession to the new Treaty and hopes to complete the constitutional procedures for its approval and ratification in a relatively short time. We stress just as emphatically the need to ban the use and production of anti-personnel mines, which have been leaving a trail of blood among the peoples of the world. The economic and social items before the Assembly also deserve our keenest interest, since they are among the essential tasks of the United Nations and of international cooperation. From our view of the international scene, questions pertaining to respect for human rights and democratic development in all countries are also matters of very high priority. As representatives are aware, Bolivia has put forward its candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 1997-1998, the elections for which will be held during the present session of the General Assembly. As a founding member of the United Nations, Bolivia carries the principles of the Charter deep within its national spirit and has maintained a policy of recognition of and support for this universal Organization. In recent years my country has contributed to the forces of United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ), as well as to the election-monitoring processes in El Salvador and Mozambique. We are also prepared to participate in United Nations standby arrangements. With regard to Haiti, Bolivia had the privilege of presiding over the ad hoc group of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Organization of American States and contributed police personnel during the first stage of the democratic normalization of that sister nation. Bolivia intends to continue participating in United Nations activities to foster international peace and cooperation. In this regard, I am pleased to note that my country enjoys excellent, long-standing diplomatic relations with the five permanent members of the Security Council and 4 that it plays an active part in the Non-Aligned Movement, whose thirty-fifth anniversary we have just celebrated in an expression of steadfastness in our convictions and in continued political cooperation. We share common problems with developing countries, land-locked States and small States the world over. Our established friendship with all the countries of America, Africa, Asia, Europe and Oceania has enabled us to learn from their important experiences and better to understand their many problems.If our brother nations represented here see fit to honour us with their trust, Bolivia undertakes to place its particular dedication at the service of the international community in the Security Council. As we move towards the end of the twentieth century and make preparations to welcome a new century and a new millennium, peoples and nations cannot ignore deep- rooted trends towards new and untrodden systems of human coexistence. In that connection, we must ensure that small States participate actively in the international arena in promoting mankind’s dream of making one out of many. That can occur only if the rules of the game are clearly defined and implemented and if effective worldwide instruments are created. It is here, in the existence of and respect for international law and justice and the institutions that embody them, that peoples, nations and States can find the only possible lodestar to guide them. Otherwise, they will be condemned to new and ominous forms of modern slavery. That is why Bolivia believes, today more than ever, in the validity of the United Nations and will work to the utmost to defending and strengthening it.  ﻿I would like first of all to express to Ambassador Razali my cordial congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly. I am firmly convinced that his qualities will enable us to solve successfully the central questions of particular relevance included in our agenda. Permit me as well in these opening comments to extend my fraternal gratitude to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal for his rigorous and able leadership during the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I would also like to express my respect to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, whose efforts at the head of the Secretariat in this particularly difficult moment Spain considers very positive and worthy of our support. The Spanish delegation fully subscribes to the statement made a few days ago by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ireland on behalf of the European Union, in which he set out the common goals and priorities of Europe for the present session of the General Assembly. I would now like to refer in detail to various issues of particular interest to my country. First of all, however, I wish to reaffirm the strong commitment of Spain and its new Government to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. On 26 June 1945 at San Francisco, at a time when mankind still had not recovered from the horrors of the Second World War, the representatives of the peoples of the United Nations expressed their firm resolve to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. They also reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights; in the dignity and worth of the human person; and in the equal rights of men and nations, both large and small. Fifty-one years later, when the necessary conditions for a new international order based on cooperation and solidarity among nations have finally been met, the commitments made in San Francisco take on renewed standing. The United Nations, in fact, constitutes at present the best instrument at mankind’s disposal to face and solve — jointly, on the basis of dialogue and solidarity among Member States — the global challenges confronting mankind at the end of the millennium. We must make sure that our political commitment to the Organization is manifested in actions, not only by making available the necessary financial resources, but also through the active search for consensus solutions for the reform of the United Nations within the various working groups of the General Assembly. Our Organization, which was designed to respond to both global challenges and to the needs of its Member States, will not be able to play its double role in the coming century unless it can count on a sound, solid and stable financial basis. Convinced of this need, Spain, the ninth- largest contributor to the budget of the Organization, pays promptly and in full its assessed contributions. When we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations with the renewed commitment of all the Member States to the principles of the Charter, we all concurred on the need to adapt the Organization to the new international situation by enhancing its efficiency through an in-depth reform which will revitalize and strengthen it. Obviously, carrying out this task means the 9 continuation and the deepening of the necessary rationalization and savings measures already undertaken by the Secretariat. In this respect, the approval at the last session of the General Assembly of the programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997, has given Spain satisfaction. We are aware today more than ever before, of the interrelated nature of the problems confronting the international community and of impossibility for Member States of solving them individually. This is why there is no doubt that it is within the framework of the United Nations where we must bring together efforts in order to face in solidarity the many crises which menace the world. The international community certainly cannot remain impassive before the magnitude of problems such as the ones faced by the African continent. This year we have witnessed terrifying massacres — such as those in Liberia — and the displacement of people in the Great Lakes region, particularly in Burundi where we continue to witness a terrible and tragic spectacle. Africa is not, however, a continent entirely and inevitably abandoned to hopelessness. There are countries in which the tenacious efforts of their leaders and the courage of their peoples allow them to embrace hope. The return to the rule of law, the establishment of solid democracies and respect for human rights are the way to establish the foundations of a sustained and sustainable development which will ensure the welfare of all Africans. The Government of Spain has followed with great attention the developments in the Middle East — focused in the peace process between Arabs and Israelis — in which the question of Palestine continues to be the central point. We are following with great concern the serious events that have taken place in recent days in Jerusalem, the West Bank and Gaza, and we wish to reiterate our call to the parties involved to abstain from all acts of provocation and violence that could lead to a new escalation of tension which could jeopardize the peace process. Furthermore, the Israeli elections held in May and the establishment of the new Government became the basic points of reference for the assessment of this complex issue and for the analysis of its future prospects. After a brief period of uncertainty, the Israeli Government has clearly stated its intention to honour fully the contents of the agreements concluded in Oslo and Washington in the spirit of the principles of Madrid. Such a positive statement of intentions would have to be followed immediately by concrete and tangible progress, which would strengthen the credibility of the peace process as the only valid alternative to attain peaceful coexistence in the region. There are still many problems to be solved. On the one hand, it is of course necessary to preserve and strengthen the safety of civilians from the blind and ruthless violence of terrorism; on the other, the closure of the Palestinian territories, the delay in redeployment of the Israeli Army in Hebron and the policy of settlements represent serious obstacles for progress in the peace process. On the basis of the Florence Declaration issued by the European Union, I avail myself of this opportunity firmly to reiterate the commitment of Spain to the Middle East peace process as the only way to solve this question. In this respect, my Government will continue to work actively, at the national level and within the European Union, to promote the cause of peace and understanding among the peoples of the region. On a broader level, I wish to express my satisfaction at the initial achievements of the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue. The Spanish Government’s priority objective is to contribute to the balanced and harmonious development of the three dimensions of this process: political, economic and human. To this end, it will be necessary to maintain and enhance the “spirit of Barcelona” shown by all countries participating in the Ministerial Conference that my country had the honour of hosting last November. In connection with the question of Western Sahara, I must express the concern of the Spanish Government at the suspension of the voter-identification operation and the blocking of the settlement plan. In this respect, I wish to recall before this Assembly Spain’s principled position, according to which the question of Western Sahara will be solved permanently only through the exercise of the right of self-determination by the people of Western Sahara in a free referendum with international guarantees. The recent elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina have ended a cycle in the process of implementation of the Dayton Agreement that was marked by an inevitable predominance of military over civilian aspects. Peace has become a reality in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the absence of confrontation is tangible evidence of the success of the multinational military operation. However, along with this success has been an absence of the 10 necessary reconciliation between the parties and the restoration of mutual confidence. Since the onset of the conflict, Spain has contributed to its solution with a substantial military presence in the United Nations Protection Force, subsequently renewed in the multinational, Implementation Force. My Government intends to continue supporting stability and reconciliation in the region as well as the United Nations efforts along those lines. The consolidation of democratic Governments, growing respect for human rights and economic and social progress are a tangible reality in and a stimulus for the future of Latin America, a continent to which Spain is linked by solid historical ties of mutual friendship and confidence. We are particularly gratified by the positive developments in Central America, where the consolidated advances of democracy and the increasing stability of peace demonstrate that efforts to promote the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights are finally having tangible effects on the lives of the people. I wish to underline, from this rostrum, Spain’s commitment to peacekeeping operations. My Government firmly intends to continue contributing to these operations. I wish to pay my warmest and most sincere tribute to the men and women involved in all these operations for their altruistic and selfless work in conditions of extreme difficulty and high risk, which sometimes has meant sacrificing their lives in the interest of peace. The United Nations peacekeeping operations have become a cornerstone of the activity of our Organization. I wish to highlight here the important momentum given by the Secretary-General in his “An Agenda for Peace” to the development and deepening of new concepts of preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and peacekeeping. The role of the United Nations in the decolonization process, particularly in the definition of its general principles, to which Spain adheres unequivocally, has been fundamental. The current membership of this General Assembly clearly demonstrates that the process has been one of the great achievements of our time. In fact, the main phase of decolonization ended some time ago. However, anachronistic colonial situations persist that ought not to be forgotten. One of the priority objectives of the Spanish Government is the decolonization of Gibraltar. Through its resolutions, this General Assembly pointed the way to a decolonization process which, based on the principle of territorial integrity, should be carried out through bilateral negotiations between the United Kingdom, the Colony’s administrative Power and Spain, the State in whose territory the Colony is located. The Spanish Government will carry out with the greatest flexibility, but also the greatest firmness, the future bilateral negotiations with the United Kingdom on the basis of the Brussels Declaration of November 1984, with the clear aim of moving forward in the process to culminate in the restoration of Spain’s full territorial integrity, generously safeguarding the interests of the Colony’s population and convinced of the urgent need to bring an end to the anachronism of the existence of a colony of one European Union member State in the territory of another friendly and allied member State. Spain is pleased to have fulfilled its aspiration of becoming a full member of the Conference on Disarmament. In this capacity, we will continue to support the enlargement of the Conference to include other candidates still hoping to join. We are pleased that the General Assembly adopted by an overwhelming majority the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which I have had the honour to sign on behalf of my country. Spain will participate in the network of seismological centres set up for the international verification of compliance with the Treaty and will support the early start-up of the Treaty organization. Universal adherence to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons continues to be a priority objective, along with the other initiatives in the field of nuclear disarmament. Spain, one of the first signatories to ratify the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, is also pleased that the figure of 65 ratifications necessary for its entry into force is about to be reached. We trust that all the signatory States that have yet to do so will deposit their instruments of ratification as soon as possible. My country is carrying out the necessary procedures to ratify the new Protocol IV on blinding laser weapons and we are making every effort to put an end to the tragic effects of anti-personnel mines. I referred at the beginning of my statement to the need, which I know is shared, to proceed with the reform, revitalization and strengthening of the United Nations. We must make our Organization the centre for harmonizing efforts to promote respect for international law, world peace and equality for all, streamlining the mechanisms of the Charter and removing the political and logistical obstacles that all too often hinder its work. As part of the institutional reform, the process of expanding and reforming the Security Council stands out. It is well known that Spain supports a moderate increase in the membership of the Council as the result of a considered negotiating process and with the final aim of enhancing the legitimacy of its actions. On the other hand, “An Agenda for Development” must be a key element in this reform process and the culmination of the series of major conferences focusing on the integral development of the individual that have been held in recent years. In the general context of this common task of reforming the United Nations, I should like in particular to refer to the new measures, adopted by this Assembly in resolution 50/227, on restructuring and revitalization in the economic, social and other fields. These measures reaffirm the unequivocal will of all countries significantly to improve the work of the Economic and Social Council as the central mechanism for coordinating and supervising United Nations activities in the economic and social fields. As an example of Spain’s commitment to the development activities of the Organization, I should like to recall that, in the past year, my country has concluded a host of bilateral agreements with various bodies of the United Nations system for the funding of specific projects for developing countries. The Rio Summit was a milestone in the history of the fight against environmental deterioration and established the basis for a concept of sustainable development that does not compromise the welfare of future generations. However, the health of our planet is far from being as good as it ought to be. We must take advantage of the forthcoming special session of this Assembly to give new impetus to the joint efforts being made to protect the environment, the true common heritage of humankind. The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted at the World Conference on Human Rights defined the promotion and protection of human rights as a priority objective of the international community. Spain fully subscribes to this principle. The promotion and protection of human rights are in themselves ineluctable necessities, and the survival of many, many human beings depends on their effective implementation. Sustainable development for all is not feasible without institutions that help in the realization of human rights. In this regard, the High Commissioner for Human Rights should have more resources at hand to continue his laudable work on restructuring the Centre for Human Rights. On the other hand, defending human rights is particularly important where the weakest people, those most needing protection and self-defence, are involved. In this context, Spain believes that we should capitalize on the stimulus of the World Congress on the Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children held recently in Stockholm, to promote through this Organization the most rigorous and comprehensive protection of minors. In the final phase of the League of Nations, an attempt was made, unfortunately without success, to implement the trilogy of arbitration-security-disarmament. The Government of Spain is convinced that the prohibition of the use and threat of use of force must be accompanied by a general provision in international law making recourse to jurisdictional channels mandatory for the settlement of disputes. It was for this reason that, in a unilateral declaration of 15 October 1990, our Government, the Government of Spain, recognized as compulsory, ipso facto and without special agreement, the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, as provided for in the Statute of the Court. It is true that the United Nations cannot solve all the problems of humankind. But our Organization can look back with the certainty that its role, in the past and in the present, has not been and is not insignificant and that, for many regions of our planet, the present and the future would be different, harsher and more forlorn without the United Nations. For this reason, I could not conclude without reiterating the firmest and most rigorous commitment of Spain to the United Nations.  ﻿Minister for Foreign Affairs Let me begin, Sir, by extending to you my heartfelt congratulations on your election to the high office of President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Malawi holds you and your great country, Malaysia, in very high esteem. Your election to preside over this important session, soon after the special commemorative session, surely demonstrates the confidence that the international community as a whole has in you and your country. I have no doubt that you will guide the deliberations of the Assembly to a successful conclusion. Let me also pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for 3 the very skilful manner in which he conducted the deliberations of the fiftieth session. As we all know, the earlier part of that session coincided with the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, an occasion which attracted an unprecedented gathering of world leaders as well as other high-level representatives. In spite of the demands which the ceremony imposed on the Organization, Mr. do Amaral met the challenge with admirable tact and tenacity. To him we wish to say “well done” for a job brilliantly executed. The fiftieth session of the General Assembly was a milestone in the life of the United Nations. It not only symbolized the coming of age of the Organization but gave delegations an opportunity for serious reflection and appraisal of the various aspects of the Organization and its operations. It was therefore not surprising to us that reform was, and continues to be, the main theme of the deliberations. My delegation is pleased to note that reform of the Organization is being pursued with vigour and a renewed sense of direction. Indeed, we cannot wish away the inspiring words of wisdom that came out of the statements of the world leaders who addressed the Assembly during the Special Commemorative Meeting. The United Nations needs to be strengthened for it to respond fully to the many political and economic challenges that face the world today. We all agree that now is the time for the Security Council to be democratized in such a way that its composition corresponds equitably with the increase in the membership of the Organization. Its working methods and procedures also need to be enhanced in order to bring about more transparency and accountability. The continuing debate on this subject has clearly revealed to us the essential issues to be dealt with. We are encouraged by what seems to be an emerging spirit of accommodation on the subject. It is our sincere hope that the hurdles that remain ahead will be surmounted in the same spirit of give and take. More significantly, it is necessary to bear in mind that while the relevant Working Group is open-ended in space, it is not open-ended in time. The sense of urgency with which world leaders addressed the question of reform during the commemorative ceremony demands that work on this matter move forward resolutely. Even the most reformed United Nations cannot perform without the necessary resources. It is no secret that the operations of the Organization have in recent years been hampered by financial constraints. We are encouraged by the progress so far achieved in the High-level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations. We, however, would have liked more sustained, action-oriented progress so that we could put to rest a matter which has greater implications, including for the morale of the staff of the Organization. We trust that the deliberations will continue to address the issues in an open and transparent manner. At the same time, it is our sincere hope that Member States will continue to honour their existing obligations without introducing linkages. Two years ago, the President of the Republic of Malawi, His Excellency Mr. Bakili Muluzi, stood here at this very rostrum to herald the dawning of a new era in Malawi on 17 June 1994, when Malawians ushered in their first democratically elected Government after 30 years of dictatorship. It is common knowledge that the new Government inherited a multitude of problems with debilitating consequences for the socio-economic development and welfare of the Malawian people. Undaunted by these enormous challenges, the new Government, soon after assuming power, put into place policies with the overall aim of reducing poverty and improving education and social services, particularly among people living in rural areas. Two and a half years on, the wide-ranging economic and structural reforms that the Government embarked upon are increasingly yielding positive results. General economic activity is expanding at a remarkable pace, inflation is coming down steadily, public finances are in the process of being restored to sustainable levels, and the situation of the balance of payments and foreign reserves continues to improve, thus gradually restoring confidence in the economy. Most significantly, the liberalization of markets and relative prices in commodities have increased work and production incentives and opened opportunities for many Malawians. We remain committed to removing the few remaining rigidities in the economy, which in the past have tended to cause discrimination against the common man in the village. The opening up of the economy and the expansion of opportunities for all will continue to guide us in pursuing our economic agenda. We are, however, the first to realize that there are many stumbling blocks ahead. Malawi is a very small country, and is landlocked. Like other countries, we too have our own vision of a better and more prosperous Malawi. Through our own 2020 Programme, we hope to solicit the views of the various sectors of the national populace and chart the direction of the country’s development to the year 2020. 4 So far, the public has shown considerable enthusiasm in the ongoing consultations, in the same way that they participated in the political transformation of the country two years ago. It is our desire and commitment to control our economic destiny. The level of expectation created by the democratic dispensation needs to be matched by economic empowerment and social development. To have it otherwise would be to compromise democracy. The Government and the people of Malawi appreciate and are thankful for the assistance which the international community is rendering our country. We are hopeful that the international community will continue to help Malawi realize its dreams and its vision. We call upon our development partners to continue to augment the assistance that they are currently extending to the people of Malawi. We also wish to appeal to our cooperating partners to come and invest in our country. The economic and investment climate is now more conducive than ever before. Malawi has welcomed with enthusiasm the launching by the international community of programmes which aim at encouraging development in Africa. For the past few years, hope in the continent was fanned by the adoption of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. The much talked about diversification of the economies of African States was warmly received as a move which would strengthen the predominantly primary raw material-producing basis of the countries’ economies. It is sad to note that the financial resources required for the programme have not matched the enthusiasm that revolved around the launching of the New Agenda. My delegation sincerely hopes that the mid-term review of the Agenda, which has just concluded, will reignite the enthusiasm of us all and enhance the political will of all the cooperating partners. More recently, my Government welcomed the launching by the Secretary-General of the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa. Malawi is particularly pleased with the innovative nature of the Initiative. The conferring of the leadership of the programme on the Africans themselves only confirms what we have always desired to see happen. In addition, the specificity of the objectives sought under the Initiative is a move in the right direction. We commend the international community for this programme and call upon the lead institutions not to waver at the implementation stage. For our part, we stand ready to cooperate fully with the other implementing partners, and so far that is precisely what we are doing. Malawi is following with interest the current work on the elaboration of an Agenda for Development. My delegation notes that the basic guidelines for an Agenda for Development are well known and have already been negotiated and agreed upon in the various United Nations conferences and summits. What remains is essentially the implementation of the action plans in a more integrated and innovative way, entailing political commitment by all active members of the international community. We look forward to an early conclusion of an Agenda for Development. We in Malawi see all these initiatives as complementary to our own ongoing efforts to improve the well-being of our people. Malawi notes with satisfaction the important role that the United Nations plays in the maintenance of international peace and security in various parts of the world. We welcome the steady progress which has been achieved in Angola and hail the Government for honouring its commitments. At the same time, we wish to appeal to the leadership of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA) to adhere to the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol and related agreements. We have always maintained that peace in Angola will be beneficial not only to the people of Angola, a people tired of war, but also to our southern African subcontinent as a whole. My Government remains disturbed by the recent developments in Burundi. The July 1996 coup d’état was a major setback to the democratic process, and we support the position taken by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the countries of the Great Lakes region. We denounce the coup d’état. Malawi does not condone any takeover of power by any party through unconstitutional means. Quite frankly, we in Africa are sick and tired of this “disease”. We want the ballot box to be the referee in African politics, once and for all. Coups d’états have contributed negatively to the fame of our otherwise rich and beautiful continent. We remain convinced that the Arusha process is the only credible way of bringing about peace in Burundi. We therefore call upon the military rulers in Burundi to pave the way for the resumption of the Arusha peace negotiations. The installation in August 1996 of an interim Government in Liberia led by Mrs. Ruth Perry gives us all hope that the warring factions have chosen the way of peace and reconciliation after years of the senseless killing of innocent civilians. Malawi commends the leadership of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) for having successfully brokered the 5 peace plan among the warring factions. We reaffirm our faith in the Abuja Agreement and express the hope that the implementation schedule agreed upon recently will lead to successful elections next year. We call upon the international community to closely monitor developments and assist the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) in the noble work that it is carrying out in Liberia. There remains cause for genuine concern over developments in Western Sahara. My Government has noted that for a long time now, progress has stalled over the identification of eligible voters in the referendum. The repeated extension of the mandate of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) is a show of commitment by the international community which should not be taken for granted. Malawi therefore calls upon the principal players in the process to show some flexibility so that an amicable solution to the current impasse can be reached. Developments in countries of the former Yugoslavia have recently been encouraging. The cessation of hostilities in the Balkans under the Dayton Peace Agreement signed early this year and the recent elections have generated considerable hope within the international community. It is the hope of my Government that no reckless moves will be taken which could jeopardize the existing momentum towards stability. During the past few years considerable progress towards a comprehensive peace settlement has been made in the Middle East. We have in the past expressed support for the peace initiative which, since its birth at Madrid on 30 October 1991, has grown steadily and has given rise to important agreements between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). We remain convinced that the path that was started in Madrid is the way forward. We therefore urge all the parties concerned to abide by their previous commitments and move forward to achieve the aspirations of the people of the region and the world. The recent disturbing developments only show how thin the dividing line is between peace and violence. The international community has recently been reminded, through violent clashes, of the volatile situation that exists in divided Cyprus. The division, which arose over two decades ago, remains a constant reminder that the international community has yet to boldly tackle the situation there. My Government hopes that the issue of Cyprus will be pursued with commitment by both the mediators and the parties concerned. It is the wish of my Government that the long- standing question of the international status of the Republic of China on Taiwan will be peacefully resolved in a manner acceptable to the Governments on both sides of the Taiwan Strait. We are encouraged by the recent reported indications that the two sides are ready to talk to each other. However, the Malawi Government wishes to reaffirm its commitment to the promotion of freedom, human rights and democratic principles and therefore supports the aspirations of the more than 21 million Taiwanese people to recognition and full participation in all the activities of the international community. We and our prestigious Organization should be preventing and resolving conflicts. We should not sit by as confrontation builds. Instead, we should find the time to initiate dialogue and lasting solutions, and not always have to wake up and respond to emergencies. The benchmark should not always be to please the stronger; it should also be to support the weak and vulnerable and those under stress. But apart from our trade interests, our moral obligation must be renewed every day. Let me conclude by reaffirming our faith in the United Nations. We believe the United Nations has a vital role to play in the maintenance of international peace and security. Many areas of tension remain the world over. We urge the United Nations to act more resolutely in dealing with these many troubled areas. The United Nations has made and continues to make a difference in the lives of millions of people in many countries, including my own, Malawi, in many areas of human endeavour. We have no doubt that a reformed United Nations will contribute more to making the world a better place to live. We are confident, Sir, that under your stewardship of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, we, the peoples of the United Nations, will have taken another bold step towards a revitalized and reformed United Nations, a United Nations capable of fully responding to the challenges of the twenty-first century. Our prayer is, let us boldly resolve and go forward together to the next millennium.   ﻿At the outset and on behalf of my delegation, allow me to congratulate Ambassador Razali on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. Oman has long enjoyed close friendly relations with his country, Malaysia, and we are confident that given his leadership and vast diplomatic experience our deliberations will reach a meaningful and successful conclusion, to which end we shall cooperate in every way. I would like to take this opportunity to pay special tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, the representative of the fraternal country of Portugal, for the exemplary manner in which he steered the work of the previous session. We also wish to convey our sincere thanks and appreciation for the unwavering support of the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. He has enhanced and reinvigorated the role of the United Nations in all areas of interest, in spite of the problems and obstacles faced by the international Organization as a result of its recent financial crisis. Our celebration last year of the fiftieth anniversary, the Nations golden jubilee, offered us a unique opportunity to review and contemplate the tremendous and substantial achievements of this body over the past five decades, during which this international Organization has made vigorous efforts to save the international community from the scourge of war and to alleviate the sufferings of vulnerable peoples throughout the world. We are fully confident of the United Nations capability to discharge the responsibilities entrusted to it in future by the international community. Although the world widely considers the Middle East to be a region of great significance, a comprehensive peace has not yet been achieved there. The international community witnessed an important breakthrough with the convening of the 1991 Madrid Peace Conference aimed at reaching a comprehensive and peaceful solution to this issue. Since then, concerted and positive steps have been taken to achieve that long-awaited objective, such as the signing of many agreements and conventions between the main parties to the conflict, particularly on the Palestinian-Israeli and Jordanian-Israeli tracks. Such steps have made the peace process in the Middle East more deep-rooted and irrevocable. All these attempts have been made through the courageous and strenuous efforts of the concerned parties in the Middle East, with the help of international support and assistance. My country’s contribution has included support and encouragement of these steps through its contacts with the concerned parties at the bilateral and multilateral levels of the peace negotiations, notably the agreement to establish commercial ties with Israel and 19 other accords with the Palestinian Authority, as well as the agreement reached by the group of founder countries to establish a Middle East research centre for water desalination. Because of the procrastination and hesitation of the newly elected Government of Israel fully to implement all previous agreements, the peace process in the Middle East requires, now more than ever before, the support of the international community. The peace process in the Middle East is a mutual responsibility of and full partnership between the Arab countries and Israel. In a partnership, every party must reap the fruits of peace or bear the risks and losses. Proceeding from this understanding, all parties must be treated on an equal footing. Furthermore, my country sees no justification for Israel’s continued blockading of the Palestinian cities, both from the humanitarian point of view and because it undermines all relations between the Palestinian people and their Israeli counterparts, as was recently seen in the bloody confrontations that occurred in Al-Quds following the opening of a tunnel by the Israeli Government at an Islamic holy site. Moreover, the expansion of hostilities at the expense of the peace negotiations will serve no one but the enemies of peace and the supporters of confrontation and animosity. Given such unacceptable measures, my country’s efforts to promote the principles of confidence-building and mutual cooperation in this area will be hampered and delayed. We call upon the Government of Israel to close the tunnel. At the same time, we hope that the summit to be hosted today by President Clinton in Washington will be successful. My country calls upon Israel to assume its primary responsibility for revitalizing the peace process by resuming the peace negotiations and taking credible steps towards the tangible and practical implementation of all agreements reached in this regard. It also hopes that the progress achieved at the Madrid Peace Conference will have a positive impact on all tracks, including the Syrian-Israeli and Lebanese-Israeli tracks. We believe that it is high time for the concerned parties to capitalize on the lessons of the past and work together in order to restore the momentum of peace and achieve a comprehensive settlement of this issue. In order to preserve the momentum of the peace process, my country will stand ready to extend every possible assistance and to take positive steps to enhance the peace process in the Middle East. My country expresses its satisfaction with the situation in Iraq in the aftermath of the recent events and developments in the north of the country, which raised tensions and nearly destabilized the region again. We call upon all concerned parties to abide by international law and to focus on the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions on Iraq, as well as to resume and activate the negotiations between the conflicting parties, in order to maintain the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq. On the other hand, we welcome the memorandum of understanding signed between Iraq and the United N a t i o n s , a l l o w i n g I r a q t o i m p l e m e n t resolution 986 (1995). In our view, if implemented, that resolution will help alleviate the suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq. While drawing the international community’s attention to the irrelevant linkage between the implementation of the aforementioned resolution and recent events in northern Iraq, and to the humanitarian appeals inside the country, we call on Iraq to cooperate fully with the United Nations in a manner that guarantees the effective and swift implementation of this resolution. Iraq is also requested to cooperate with the United Nations in implementing other international resolutions on the release of Kuwaiti detainees and properties and the nationals of other countries detained in Iraq, in the hope that Iraq’s full compliance and further cooperation with the United Nations Special Commission on Iraq will pave the way for the possible lifting of the international embargo and the restoration of peace and stability in the region. With regard to the question of disarmament, the United Nations has played an important role in diffusing the threat of weapons of mass destruction and promoting an equitable balance between the regional Powers. My country has participated in the Commission on Disarmament’s meetings on regional security as part of an international effort to reactivate peace negotiations in the Middle East. While actively supporting the Commission, the Sultanate of Oman would point out that such efforts alone cannot guarantee equitable security in the region if they are not paired with other effective and practical measures to eliminate weapons of mass destruction there and to promote comprehensive and unconditional acceptance of international monitoring and inspection of all activities related to this matter. The Sultanate of Oman was also among the first countries to sign the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of 20 Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction and the first country in the Middle East to ratify it. This is a clear indication of my country’s distinctive role in enhancing security and stability in the region and throughout the world. Similarly, it is a great honour for me to announce to this international forum the Sultanate’s decision to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), in the hope that other countries that have not yet done so will follow the same course before the end of the year so as to ensure the Treaty’s universality and to secure a world free of all weapons of mass destruction in which all mankind can live in peace, love and prosperity. My country, like many others, voted in favour of this Treaty and, while we salute all who contributed to this major achievement, we call on the United Nations not to stop here, but to continue its efforts to free the world once and for all from all nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. We call upon the nuclear-weapon States in particular to implement time-bound programmes in order to achieve this noble objective as soon as possible. We would like to express our deep concern and regret vis-à-vis terrorist acts that target the lives of innocent people — including children, women and the elderly — and violate their legitimate right to live in peace and prosperity. The international community should take immediate and collective action to combat this phenomenon. We support all sincere and faithful efforts to convene an international conference to address and eliminate this problem and related aspects and to ensure that the perpetrators of such terrorist acts do not go unprosecuted and are brought to justice. The Dayton Agreement for Bosnia and Herzegovina, signed a year ago, has proved to be the optimal solution for putting an end to that tragic four-year war, which killed, wounded or displaced many Bosnians. My country welcomes this historic Agreement and made every possible effort as a Security Council member and at regional and international forums to put an end to the suffering of the Bosnian people and the atrocities committed against them and to restore security, stability and prosperity to all the peoples of the Balkans. We hope that the results of the elections held recently in Bosnia will pave the way for a better and prosperous future in which the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina can live in peace, tranquillity and cooperation. Effective participation in international and regional conferences on environmental issues is one of the ways in which the Sultanate of Oman is helping to improve and coordinate its environmental policies. My country has played an active role in many of these conferences and has hosted some as a contribution to increasing public awareness at the national, regional and international levels. We are fully convinced that, through concerted efforts, the international community can preserve the environment and the world’s ecosystems. We emphasize the need for all countries to participate effectively in the international agreements and conventions aimed at conserving the ecological system, preventing environmental degradation, enhancing international scientific exchange and creating an international information network. In Oman, we focus consistently on the development of human resources, the improvement of our technical and vocational education, the encouragement of the private sector and economic diversification. Our fifth development plan, initiated at the beginning of this year, has several objectives, including the improvement of technical and vocational education in Oman, the encouragement of the private sector and economic diversification and the establishment of an economic balance conducive to foreign investment. We have also updated our tax systems in accordance with an equation that would establish a level playing field for foreign investments. A financial centre has recently been established in Muscat to deal with the activities of foreign trade and investments in Oman. The commercial and regional economic groups have had a major impact on international efforts to expand the range of mutual economic interests and influence the free flow of trade and investment throughout the world. In this context, my country has participated with its sister countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) in exploring every possible means to promote and expand free trade and investment among these countries or between any other international groups. My country has also participated actively in founding a new economic group of the littoral States of the Indian Ocean, including several African countries, to trigger commercial activity among these countries, develop economic cooperation and maximize opportunities for the present and future investment and exploitation of their natural and human resources in the best interests of their peoples. We are confident that the establishment of such a new economic group, which embraces many countries with deep-rooted historic and cultural ties, will ultimately enhance cooperation between its member States and affect other economic factors, such as raw materials, human resources and energy. 21 Here I would like to talk about Africa. A number of African countries are still suffering from the aftermath of the cold war, which resulted in internal political turmoil and crisis, leading to a decline in gross national products. Africa’s role is indispensable. We have to help it assume its natural place on the international scene. We therefore call upon the United Nations and the international community to continue to extend assistance to Africa through further cooperation with all its regional organizations. Technological progress has greatly speeded communications between countries and economic advancement. My country welcomes the outcome of the summit of industrial countries held last June in Lyon, France, at which these countries reaffirmed their solidarity with the international community’s efforts to solve the problems and reduce the burdens associated with globalization. Similarly, the developing countries should benefit from the outcome of the Uruguay Round. The developing countries are pushing to adopt market- economy policies and undertaking further structural economic reforms in support of free trade and investment. They are also looking forward to the capital flows and technology transfers that can help strengthen their economic and social development, improve the quality of their productivity and upgrade their services. This in turn will enable these countries to increase their development, widen their markets and enhance the international competitiveness of developing countries, creating a more independent world in which stability and prosperity will prevail. My Government has already requested full membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO). We have been following its work for a year now. Our accession to WTO membership would be a big step for us. It would enhance our development, promote our services and upgrade our productivity standards to the fullest level possible. To that end, we must guarantee a reasonable balance between our national interests and regional and international benefits. In this context, the Sultanate of Oman, as a developing country, has been looking forward to receiving the global support and assistance which, under the generalized system of preferences, the international community extends to developing countries to help them address the challenges posed by economic reforms and structural adjustment. In both the short and long terms, the international community should continue to enhance this system. As can be seen in its national legislation and norms, such as the national law of commercial signs and the patenting system which governs new inventions within the countries of the GCC, Oman has played a commendable role in protecting intellectual property. Furthermore, a law to protect copyrights and publications has been enacted in the general context of updating and improving the legislation and norms of trade and investment in Oman. Given Oman’s support of the principles embodied in the new global trend to protect intellectual property rights and its desire fully to participate and cooperate in this regard, my Government has decided to accede to the World Intellectual Property Organization. As we approach the twenty-first century, we are prompted by hope to continue to work and cooperate collectively in maintaining international peace and security to enhance life for the current and future generations. Such an objective cannot be achieved without the firm commitment of the international community to reviewing and adopting clear economic guidelines for an urgent and serious approach to the establishment of a permanent, effective economic mechanism to deal with this matter for the benefit of all of mankind. The United Nations should assume the primary responsibility of addressing these great challenges and discharge in an effective manner the global duties entrusted to it by the international community. We appreciate the complexity of the task of reforming the United Nations and its organs, but we also believe that it can be accomplished through the establishment of dynamic and cost-effective mechanisms for achieving selected goals and meeting the urgent needs of future development plans. We support the Secretary-General’s medium-term proposals for an objective strategy for the programmes of the future work of the United Nations. In this connection, we express our concern regarding the deterioration of the financial situation of the United Nations. We urge Member States to fulfil their financial obligations and thus enable the United Nations to carry out its functions effectively. We would also emphasize the responsibility of the Security Council — its permanent members in particular — to their financial commitments to peacekeeping operations, in coordination with the various regional and international bodies of the United Nations, which collectively endeavour to secure appropriate solutions to international conflicts. We call on the international community to accelerate its efforts to review and reform the administrative organs of the United Nations in a manner that conforms to the global aspirations and expectations of the forthcoming century.  ﻿Allow me to begin by congratulating the President on his election to preside over the Assembly this session. We are convinced that he will guide our work successfully. We would also like to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral for his work. In 1990, when Mrs. Violeta Barrios de Chamorro became President of Nicaragua, the country was in a state of war. Negotiating the demobilization of more than 20,000 people who had taken up arms and reducing an army of over 90,000 soldiers were key tasks in ending a civil war that had lasted almost 10 years. This 19 complicated pacification process was just the beginning of a process of peace, reconciliation, democracy and development in Nicaragua aimed at bringing the country into line with the new situation in the region and the globalization of international relations. As part of this process, we began to modernize the State, curbed hyper-inflation, liberalized the pricing system and did away with the State monopoly in the areas of foreign trade and finance, where we have managed to privatize almost all the companies that used to belong to the State. As the State apparatus was reduced, we began to decentralize government and transfer responsibilities to municipal and community levels and to sectors in which the private sector could clearly be much more effective. We have carried out the process of peace and reconciliation that was essential for democratic national consolidation. We have stabilized the economy and reduced the external debt, although, unfortunately, it is still a great burden. One of the main concerns of the Government of President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro has been to ensure that the human rights of the entire population of Nicaragua are respected. To this end, we have adopted legislative and administrative provisions that have rid Nicaraguan jails of murder, torture and impunity. We have set up new institutions that encourage education, trade and banking. We have introduced a new, much more effective, social security system. We have allocated more of our budget to primary and technical education, and we can be proud of the unlimited freedom of the press in Nicaragua today. We have also managed to establish civilian control over the military, which will be another important bequest to the new Government. Today our country enjoys the greatest degree of political freedom in its history. Considerable progress has been made in institutionalizing democracy, and the resources that in the past we Nicaraguans used for war are now once again being used for education, health and the building of housing and roads — in other words, for the comprehensive development of Nicaragua. Democracy in Nicaragua was born in 1990, with the election of President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro in the only truly free election ever enjoyed by the Nicaraguan population in its history. At that difficult time, we Nicaraguans accepted the challenge of sowing the seeds of a new culture of peace. The United Nations played a very important role in this process of achieving democracy and opening up a new era for Nicaragua. In the same spirit, the United Nations is now cooperating with us and providing guidance for the elections later this year. Since 1990 major changes have occurred at the world level. Many countries have rid themselves of oppression and dictatorship. The Iron Curtain has been torn down, as have the walls of ideological intolerance. The foundations of apartheid have crumbled, and in the Middle East a peace process is unfolding, filling us with hope, although it is not without problems. Major sacrifices have been made by peoples under totalitarian regimes so as to win the right to live in peace and freedom in a more secure world — a fairer, more peaceful, tolerant and democratic one. However, we see that new crises and armed conflicts have arisen in other regions of the world. Because of its international character, the United Nations is duty-bound to face up to the challenges of security required by the current situation; our Organization’s global agenda allows it to operate more dynamically. The United Nations must confront issues such as the eradication of poverty, environmental degradation, terrorism, the use and trafficking of drugs, violence suffered by women and the promotion of democratic values and progress in social development. Nicaragua is convinced that peace and democracy are closely related to development, and that without economic development it is extremely difficult to achieve sustainable democracy. In the Secretary-General’s “An Agenda for Peace” we have a summary of the important changes that have occurred in recent years. He sets forth the difficult conditions of hunger and poverty among other things, still existing in developing countries. He also recognizes that the burden of debt and barriers to international trade are still a danger to world stability. All this makes the development of the new concept of international security more difficult — as discussed right here in the United Nations. The Secretary-General’s “An Agenda for Peace” is a mechanism to help us bring about true, comprehensive peace. Let us recall, as was stated today by the Prime Minister of Norway, that peace is no longer only something that States must seek from one another. We must seek peace within each State as well. 20 The sensitive mission of the United Nations at this new stage of its development can be illustrated by its dynamic role in Central America, a region that in 1992 was declared by this very General Assembly to be an area of peace, freedom, democracy and development. No one doubts that the United Nations has begun a major process of profound transformation and renewal, taking place precisely 50 years after its establishment and reflecting the current international situation. With this renewal we hope for greater democratization of our world Organization, particularly in the Security Council. We also hope for the admission of new Members to the Organization, such as the Republic of China on Taiwan, which meets the requirements set forth in the Charter to be a Member State, but whose right to be a Member is still denied it. Likewise, we are expecting the United Nations to contribute to developing countries, particularly through programmes of technical cooperation and cooperation for development. During these last few years of transition, while we have been establishing and consolidating peace and democracy in Nicaragua, world disarmament has accelerated. Budgets for armaments have been reduced in many countries, and we, the Governments of Central America, have adopted some serious initiatives as regards the production, use and transfer of anti-personnel mines. We have also declared Central America to be a region completely free of those devices. Areas that were once battlegrounds, including Nicaragua, are now seeing demining operations with good prospects. At the same time, several nuclear-weapon States have initiated moratoriums on testing, thus greatly diminishing the possibility of a devastating nuclear war. We have also seen an increase in the number of nuclear-weapon-free zones. The signing of the Pelindaba Treaty establishes a zone of this kind in Africa; and with the establishment of other nuclear-weapon-free zones in South-East Asia we will be strengthening the potential for a more secure world. It is important to recall that very recently we adopted by an overwhelming majority, right here at United Nations Headquarters, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We are seriously concerned that much of the recent political progress achieved throughout the world is not necessarily in tune with progress in the economic sphere. Developing countries continue to face serious problems such as extreme poverty and unemployment. Access to new international markets continues to be limited for our products. The burden of debt is unbearable, and the constant inequalities in international financial systems continue to affect our countries adversely. Therefore, we must urgently establish much fairer and more equitable international economic relations. We are also concerned that during this same period of global, regional and national transition, new forms of intolerance, lack of understanding and violation of human rights have breached the peace in certain areas of the world. Such is the case in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Somalia and Rwanda, where events have profoundly disturbed the human conscience. In this same regard, Nicaragua is troubled by recent events in Burundi, where in spite of the efforts of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the international community, the situation remains delicate. On the other hand, the efforts made towards reaching peace in Chechnya hearten us. We are concerned at the continuation of practices and their pernicious effects. We believe that their perpetrators should be brought to justice without exception. We condemn attacks such as that upon President Mubarak of Egypt and the recent one in Dharan, Saudi Arabia, in which hundreds of innocent people were wounded. We feel great solidarity with the victims and their families. Nicaragua is concerned at the growth in the production, consumption and traffic in drugs, and in the growing relationship between terrorism and weapons trafficking, which, like drug trafficking, continues to pose a major threat to future generations. For these reasons, I would like to state that Nicaragua was pleased to hear the proposal made by the President of Colombia regarding the need to develop a global agenda for drugs. We believe that the United Nations should think hard about that important initiative. On the eve of the twenty-first century, the international community as a whole should seek out ways and means to overcome all of these situations. We should make our best efforts in that regard. Nicaragua is ready to support the international community in these initiatives. In July 1994, the second International Conference of New and Restored Democracies was held in Managua, Nicaragua; its main objective was to study in a frank and 21 objective manner the weaknesses, prospects and challenges of new democracies. On this occasion, on behalf of my country and in our capacity of interim secretariat of the Conference, I would like to urge that the third conference of new democracies, which will be held next year in Bucharest, Romania, receive the international community’s special attention. In this ongoing quest for peace and for the strengthening of democracy, we in Central America are putting into practice a new model of regional security. The outstanding features of this new model have been embodied in the Alliance for the Sustainable Development of Central America, which is a national and regional strategy to foster a change in personal and social attitudes to ensure the establishment of a model of sustainable development in the political, economic, social, cultural and environmental fields. We Central Americans have already ratified a framework treaty for democratic security which deals with respect for and the promotion and protection of human rights. Its provisions ensure the security of the Central American States and their inhabitants through the establishment of conditions which will allow them their personal, family and social development in peace, freedom and democracy. These are initiatives which could be studied in other regions with the aim of strengthening national processes within the context of new circumstances and with the objective of moving towards a new international order which will be more secure, to which we all aspire. Only months away from the end of President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro’s term of office and less than one month from the elections in which her successor will be chosen, we are very satisfied with the work carried out during this period. World and regional events have had, and will continue to have, their impact within countries. In the case of Nicaragua, this impact has been highly positive. By the end of its term, our Government will have left Nicaragua completely different from the Nicaragua we found in 1990. We are certain that whoever is elected President in the coming elections will have the necessary vision to establish, as it has done in the past, a Government of benefit to all Nicaraguans. Thus, we believe that extensive democratic consolidation should also continue in order to continue on the path of peace, harmony and progress. On behalf of President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, I would like to ask the international community and the United Nations to continue supporting Nicaragua, for the good of democracy, for the good of our country, and, above all, for the good of the international community. I take this opportunity on behalf of the people and Government of Nicaragua and on my own behalf to thank the States, the Governments, the international organizations and non-governmental organizations which, in one way or another, have lent our country their cooperation and solidarity. Without this solidarity we Nicaraguans would never have been able to achieve the democracy we have today, nor would we have been able to lay the foundation for economic development. To all of them and to all of you, members of the Assembly, thank you very much. ﻿It is my distinct honour to address the United Nations during this historic session, which I am confident will be remembered for all time for its adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. 20 The Republic of Palau applauds and thanks those countries that will be signatories to the Treaty, for we believe that it does much to advance our goal of ridding the planet of nuclear weapons. The Treaty, by banning further testing, will help prevent the development of more dangerous nuclear weapons. Furthermore, the Treaty will help prevent other nations from obtaining existing nuclear weapons. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty thus clearly helps to make the world a safer place for us and for all of our children. The Republic of Palau’s commitment against the creation and proliferation of nuclear weapons is long-lasting and resolute. When the people of Palau adopted our Constitution in 1978, we became the first country in the world to become a constitutionally mandated nuclear-free country. Indeed, protecting our citizens from these horrific weapons of destruction is at the very heart and soul of our Constitution. While not every country will sign the Treaty, the fact that the world’s five recognized nuclear Powers — the United States, China, France, Russia and the United Kingdom — have agreed to abide by the terms of the Treaty and that the overwhelming majority of other nations, including the Republic of Palau, have also agreed to abide by its terms gives the citizens of my country and of every other nation on Earth the hope that one day we will be free from these catastrophic weapons of destruction and of the threat they pose to each of us and to our global environment. Accordingly, I would like to thank all of those who helped bring the citizens of the world this Treaty, including the Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee on a Nuclear Test Ban, Ambassador Ramaker of the Netherlands, and especially our close neighbour and great friend, the Government of Australia, which took the lead at the United Nations in making this Treaty a reality. Another of my nation’s primary concerns is the issue of how to protect the environment while providing sustainable economic development. This is a central issue for small island nations in particular and for other developing countries around the world. The Republic of Palau is therefore very pleased by the recognition and affirmation that human beings are at the centre of sustainable development and that they have the right to a healthy, productive and meaningful life in harmony with nature. However, to make sure that this affirmation becomes a reality, action must be taken at all levels of government, in particular at the international level. To help every nation achieve this goal, developing countries, including small island nations, must be provided the necessary resources to enable them to implement the decisions and recommendations of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and other significant international conferences. The Republic of Palau, a small island nation in the Pacific, cherishes its recognition as an independent country and greatly values its membership in the United Nations, which allows our voice to be heard on global issues such as the importance of freeing the world of nuclear weapons and protecting our global environment. We believe that perhaps the most critically important role of the United Nations is to provide a forum for nations large and small to discuss, debate and reach agreement on how best to serve economic, social, cultural and other humanitarian problems. Consequently, we believe that those countries which have made demonstrated efforts to advance regional and global peace, security and prosperity by establishing partnerships with other countries to further these causes have much to offer the United Nations as a whole and to its constituent Members individually. In his inaugural speech to his country, United States President Bill Clinton pointed out that it is very likely that every problem we face has already been solved somewhere in the world. The challenge for us all is to communicate with each other so that we can discover those solutions. The United Nations clearly provides the forum for such dialogue and discovery to take place. The Republic of Palau believes that a greater number of voices invited to participate in these discussions can only lead to better solutions to the myriad global problems we all face. The overwhelming support given to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty aptly demonstrates that, through many people working together, the cacophony of historically divergent voices can be harmonized for the benefit of all the peoples of all the nations on Earth.  ﻿It gives me great pleasure to convey to Mr. Razali Ismail the heartfelt congratulations of the delegation of Niger on his outstanding election to the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly at its fifty-first session. His election is testimony to the high esteem and prestige enjoyed by his country, Malaysia, in international affairs for its contribution to the attainment of the ideals of our Organization. It is also recognition of the fact that he is a seasoned diplomat and a man of great experience. I extend my congratulations to the other officers of the Assembly, and we assure Mr. Razali of the full cooperation of the delegation of Niger in the discharge of his duties. I should like to convey to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, our great pleasure at, and our compliments on, the excellent job he did during his presidency. The President of the Republic of Niger, General Ibrahim Maïnassara Barré, reaffirms his unreserved support for and encouragement to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts for peace and development. As the Assembly knows, this support was demonstrated to the Secretary-General at the recent Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), when my country joined the unanimous tribute to him. I know that my country’s decision to propose one of our sons as a possible candidate for the post of Secretary- General has given rise to much comment. Let me here make it clear that Mr. Hamid Algabid, the candidate in question, is simply a “candidate for the candidacy”. In other words, if in the coming weeks no veto opposes the re-election of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali as Secretary- General, Africa would only stand to gain. It would be perfectly normal for a son of our continent, who is just as qualified as his predecessors, to enjoy, as they did, a second mandate at the head of our distinguished Organization. The annual session of the General Assembly gives my country an opportunity to renew its faith in the ideals and principles of the United Nations Charter. The fiftieth anniversary of our Organization, which we commemorated last year, gave us an opportunity to look at the progress made and to define the priorities on which we should focus. Among those priorities is joint action by the international community to reduce the economic imbalance between the nations of the North and the nations of the South. Unfortunately, the map of economic 24 and social development of the world contains a geography of contrasts and disparities, although there were reasonable hopes that the end of the cold war would facilitate the mobilization of the international community for development. Everywhere, and more specifically in the countries of the South, poverty is the greatest threat to political stability and social cohesion. The destitution of the shanty towns, the destitution of the street children, and absolute poverty are a disgrace to us all, and they will be as long as we see marginalization as inevitable. As the Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Frederico Mayor, stated so well: “From poverty to marginalization, from marginalization to exclusion: this is how the most fertile breeding ground for violence is created.” It is this violence which we must avoid, by offering better alternatives to the peoples to whom we are responsible — most particularly in Africa. Indeed, this continent shows signs of being a land full of vitality, capable of major economic achievements, if the international community gives us a chance and the resources. Accordingly, the commitments jointly entered into in the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s are as relevant as ever. And more than ever they require that greater efforts be made for Africa by other members of the international community. The question of external debt, and in particular the question of multilateral debt, which was given special attention at the G-7 summit in Lyon deserves radical, urgent treatment. Niger fully supports the recommendations adopted at the mid-term review of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa. We welcome the launching on 15 March 1996 of the United Nations System- wide Initiative on Africa. We hope that this programme, which is in any case an important framework for cooperation, will make it possible to ensure sustainable economic and social development in Africa. Official Development Assistance — quite rightly identified as one of the main conditions for the revitalization of the African countries — should be increased to the level indicated in the resolutions adopted on this subject. At the upcoming Singapore meeting of the World Trade Organization appropriate follow-up action should be taken to ensure that the rights and interests of all countries, and in particular of the African countries, be protected. Likewise, the provision of technical and financial assistance to implement horizontal and vertical policies to diversify exports will give African countries the means for greater economic independence. Since the end of the cold war, our Organization has certainly had some success in the maintenance of international peace and security. Among these successes was the coming into being of a democratic and multiracial South Africa and the end of the disastrous war in Mozambique. We have also made significant progress in the peace process in Angola, in the crisis in the Middle East and in the former Yugoslavia, in particular the holding a few days ago of elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Niger is following closely the efforts undertaken by the authorities in Rwanda to overcome the aftermath of the tragic events we all witnessed and in particular to consolidate national reconciliation and lasting peace. The situation in Liberia has seen a change for the better after the recent Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) summit devoted to that country. Niger supports the recommendations which emerged from it and has decided, despite our own financial difficulties, inter alia, to strengthen the structure of the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) in Liberia by sending a contingent of about 500 men. My country believes, however, that these efforts will only be successful with the valuable support of the international community, which inter alia must honour its commitments to this country.I take this opportunity to commend the tireless efforts made in Liberia by Nigeria, the great friend and brother of Niger. Somalia also deserves support. My country has been following with great interest the evolution of the situation in Western Sahara and hopes for a resumption of dialogue between the two main protagonists there so that, in the near future, efforts by made by the United Nations will finally lead to the self-determination referendum which the international community hopes to see. Concerning the sanctions imposed on Libya, Niger believes that the constructive proposals made by the authorities of that country provide a serious basis for negotiations to resolve that crisis, the consequences of which are adversely affecting the Libyan people as well neighbouring countries. In the Middle East, for three years now, considerable progress has been made on the path to peace. Until recently, President Arafat, living among his own people, 25 was developing a dialogue with his former enemies that, while certainly difficult, was also useful. With the support of the international community, that dialogue must go on. But unfortunately, since the return of the right wing to power in Israel, all hopes seem to have been dashed. Our Organization must shoulder its responsibilities and do everything in its power to stop the Middle East from plunging into a new war with unforeseeable consequences. If the State of Israel has the right to exist and to live in peace, the same goes for all States in the region — beginning with Palestine. Niger is similarly concerned about the serious situation in Jammu and Kashmir and hopes that the international community will discuss it further. It is indispensable that in that region of the world as well, and with the encouragement of all countries of good will, that wisdom and dialogue prevails, so that in the near future the people of Kashmir can finally exercise freely their inalienable right to self-determination. Disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons, have a central role to play in conflict prevention and the promotion of peace and economic and social development. This is why Niger renews its appeal for universal accession to international conventions and treaties that relate to weapons of mass destruction, and in particular to the cornerstone treaty: the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Further efforts should be made to control conventional weapons and, generally speaking, to establish confidence- building measures among States. The signing of the Treaty of Pelindaba, on the creation of a nuclear-weapon free zone in Africa, was a source of legitimate pride. My country welcomes the adoption here in New York of the important Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which finally puts an end to the fears of millions of human beings for their lives and for their environment. It is certainly a significant step towards nuclear non-proliferation. Niger was among the sponsors of the resolution submitted by Australia, and will be signing the Treaty in the near future. We hope that this stage, which puts an end to the risks of horizontal proliferation, will lead to a substantial reduction in existing arsenals. Finally, as in previous years, my country will join in initiatives to be taken to combat illicit trafficking in small arms. It will also join the increasingly unanimous condemnation by the international community of the manufacture and use of those deadly devices: anti- personnel landmines. The building of a better world, which is our common goal, is still dependent on the establishment of international relations based on the principle of cooperation and human solidarity. We have had major discussions on this subject: in Rio on the environment, in Cairo on population, in Copenhagen on social development, in Beijing on the promotion of women, in Istanbul on human settlements, and soon, in Rome, on food. All the concerns of humanity have been taken into account in the many important recommendations which emerged from those conferences and which outlined a vision of a better world. We believe that only genuine human solidarity can transform that vision into reality. Before concluding, I would like to provide an overview of the political solution in my country. Niger is one of the African countries which, early on, chose the path of democracy. In less than five years, it has tried everything: a national conference, democratic transition, and free and transparent elections which established the institutions of our Third Republic. Following the dismissal of the Government by the National Assembly, and the dissolution of that Assembly by the President of the Republic, the ensuing elections brought about the victory of the opposition and the establishment of a power- sharing regime marked by institutional instability in which the higher interests of the country were sidelined. The resulting paralysis of State structures prompted the army to seize power. Understand me clearly: I have no wish to justify military coups d’état. But in Niger, the putsch was the lesser evil. At least that is how it was perceived by the people of Niger, who spontaneously organized demonstrations in support of the new regime. As I speak to you now, Niger, having elected a new President, General Ibrahim Baré Maïnassara, is now preparing for legislative elections. The Government is doing this in cooperation with the opposition, which only last week finally agreed to hold discussions with the representatives of the presidential party and to define with it the conditions for organizing future popular elections. The two parties have agreed to abandon sterile polemics and to create the calm conditions so necessary to work effectively in the higher interests of Niger. This shows that Africa in general, and Niger in particular, is not allergic to democracy. But in the matter at hand, what my country wants is to be given the opportunity to build to its democratic system — based, 26 without question, on respect for human rights and freedoms — at its own pace, taking into account its own political, economic, social and cultural context. And I venture here to say that one of the dominant features of African culture is that we do not turn public administration into a dichotomy between those in power and the opposition, between those responsible for running the country and those who are excluded from that process. In Africa, we do everything together. We work together, we eat together and we manage things together. Of course, in the interest of the human community to which everyone belongs, everyone should know his rightful place in this process and everyone should play the role he has been given. In this regard, I would like to add that even just in our subregion, West Africa, there are several examples of countries that have understood this process and that are fruitfully applying it on a daily basis. This is the case of Senegal and Burkina Faso. Let us try to find in our culture — or better in our cultures — all the elements that can enable our countries to establish a viable, properly adapted democracy, while also rejecting categorically any kind of ready-to-wear democracy that might be foisted upon us. In conclusion, allow me to reaffirm Niger’s faith in the ideals of the United Nations and in its ability to find in the solidarity of all its Members appropriate responses to the new challenges facing humanity.﻿It is with real pleasure and great interest that I stand before the Assembly to convey the warm greetings of the people of Guinea and of its President, General Lansana Conte. I join with the many preceding speakers in warmly congratulating Ambassador Razali on his election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. His election is testimony to the international community’s high regard for Malaysia, his country, with which the Republic of Guinea is honoured to have special ties of friendship and cooperation. I am convinced that under his skilful guidance our work will enjoy every success. I assure him of the support and cooperation of the delegation of Guinea in this task. My congratulations also go to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal who, with skill and clearsightedness, enabled the Assembly to address the concerns of the international community during the fiftieth session. My country, the Republic of Guinea, takes this opportunity to greet and stress our tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose courage, intelligence and tireless efforts have contributed significantly to the attainment of the Organization’s noble purposes of peace, justice and progress. This is why my delegation reiterates its support for his candidacy for a second term of office, in accordance with the decision of the most recent Summit Meeting of the Organization of African Unity, held at Yaounde from 8 to 10 July 1996. A host of challenges are now threatening to upset the balance of the United Nations as we approach the end of the millennium. Despite encouraging results in terms of maintaining international peace and security, many conflicts incompatible with people’s aspirations of economic and social progress persist. In addition to the tensions and conflicts which are tearing peoples apart, of equal concern are the poverty, unemployment, malnutrition and environmental degradation that continue to threaten the existence and future of many populations of the world. Today more than ever there is an urgent need radically to restructure our common institution, the United Nations, so that it can adapt better to current changes, respond appropriately to the expectations of our populations on the major questions which challenge humankind and make the outlook for the future one filled with hope. The need to prevent and settle conflicts, to support the efforts of States to ensure sustainable development, to provide easier access to suitable housing and to guarantee sufficient food for all are now becoming elements of the promotion of human rights. The same holds true for how we deal with the implications of the globalization of the international economy through reliable mechanisms. The Republic of Guinea welcomes and strongly encourages the initiative of Japan, our great friend, to design and implement, with our countries, a new development strategy. In this respect, it supports the organization in 1997 in Tokyo of the second International Conference on African Development in which it undertakes to play an active role from the preparatory phase to the end of its work. We are convinced that there 18 is an urgent need and obligation to support firmly a new form of world partnership involving all nations, large and small. The Republic of Guinea, aware of the fresh challenges facing developing countries on the eve of the third millennium, has decided that its diplomacy should be based on development. This role of diplomatic linchpin in the area of economic advancement will not only strengthen our commitment to subregional and regional integration, but will also increase significantly our participation in international trade. Questions of international peace and security must remain at the forefront of our concerns. In this respect, my delegation considers that the main role of the United Nations is to continue and intensify the search for ways and means to increase the effectiveness of its action in the areas of the maintenance of peace and of preventive diplomacy. My delegation welcomes the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which I have just signed on behalf of the Government of Guinea. We see this as an important step towards total disarmament. If the Treaty is to attain all of its objectives, the main one being to spare humanity from chaos, it must be signed and respected by all States of the world. To do this, we must calmly and jointly seek to give the assurances of the international community to countries that hesitate to take the decisive step towards the salvation of humanity, so that in the near future the accession of all Member States of the United Nations will enshrine the universality of this important Treaty. Along the same lines, my delegation calls on the international community to implement global measures to prohibit the illegal traffic of fissile materials, the transborder trafficking in conventional small arms and the production, stockpiling and use of anti-personnel landmines. More than 110 million mines are now scattered around the world, ready to explode at any time, indiscriminately striking down innocent civilian populations. The Republic of Guinea welcomes the adoption of the text of Protocol II to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May be Deemed to Be excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects, on Mines, Booby-Traps and Other Such Devices during the Review Conference on the implementation of that Convention. Other threats weigh heavily on international peace and security. Our Organization must react vigorously to the threats of terrorism, organized crime and drug trafficking. Apart from their many disastrous consequences, these threats, because they are transborder threats, must be considered as real dangers to the health, security and stability both of our populations and of our States. My delegation, while welcoming the decisions of the Group of Seven and Russia on combatting terrorism and transnational threats, believes that a more complete use of the potential of the United Nations as an instrument for developing joint international strategies and cooperation among all States in the area of fighting crime would allow for more effective coordination of the actions of the international community. We greatly appreciate the United Nations efforts in other areas as dangerous as terrorism: money-laundering, trafficking in children and all related crimes. Fighting these scourges of our time is everyone’s business. In Africa, tangible progress has been made in the area of peace and democracy. The Republic of Guinea, however, remains concerned by the conflicts which continue to rage on the continent. In the West African subregion, the situations in Liberia and Sierra Leone have tangibly improved, despite some obstacles, which we are striving to overcome within the context of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and its peace force, the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG). The conflict in Liberia has lasted for seven long years. It has caused the death of tens of thousands of people and has led to a mass exodus of hundreds of thousands of refugees to neighbouring States, including my country, the Republic of Guinea, on whose territory are hundreds of thousands of refugees, to whom it offers assistance and protection while at the same time espousing total neutrality in relation to other States members of ECOWAS in the search for a political solution to end this conflict. The joint efforts of that subregional organization with such major forums as the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations led to the signing of the most recent peace agreements at Abuja, Nigeria. The Republic of Guinea, true to its policy of good- neighbourliness and neutrality, firmly supports these 19 agreements, which provide for free and transparent elections in May 1997, and will ensure their strict implementation. An end to this conflict is of interest to the Republic of Guinea, my country, mainly because of the presence on our territory of more than 650,000 refugees compared with a population of 7 million Guineans: one refugee for every 10 inhabitants. This is a situation with rare precedents. Similarly, our participation in the peace effort places a heavy burden on our economy and compromises many of our development projects. I would like to make an urgent appeal to all the parties concerned with this conflict to implement the Abuja Agreement in full, and in a timely manner, to the benefit of stability in the subregion. The promises of assistance from friendly countries and by the international community could, if kept within the timetable, effectively lead the final settlement plan to success. The initiatives under way in this regard are very encouraging. We welcome the action of the United States of America to assist ECOWAS peace efforts and thank the United States warmly for its latest contribution to the financing of the activities of ECOMOG. The deterioration of the socio-political climate in Burundi stirs fears today of a repetition of the threats experienced in neighbouring Rwanda, a country with which it shares many social, historical and cultural similarities. The continuation of this crisis also poses a serious threat to stability in the region and to peace. This is why the United Nations, together with neighbouring countries, must be further involved in the search for a final solution to this crisis. We lend our full support to the recent decision taken by the OAU and by the conference of Heads of State of the Great Lakes region, held at Arusha, against the Government stemming from the coup d’état. We urge all the sons of Burundi and all those of good-will worldwide to support OAU efforts towards the peaceful settlement of the crises in Burundi and in Rwanda through dialogue, tolerance and reconciliation among the various communities. As regards Western Sahara, my Government supports the international community’s efforts for a peaceful solution to this question, in accordance with the United Nations settlement plan. With respect to Angola, my delegation strongly encourages the Angolan Government and União Nacional para a Independência Total de Angola (UNITA) to persevere along the path to peace and national reconciliation on the basis of the implementation of and respect for the Lusaka Protocol. Regarding the situation in Somalia, we must say that leaving Somalians to their fate would be contrary to the United Nations ideal of solidarity. Despite the difficulties, the United Nations must continue to be involved actively in the process of restoring peace to that country, through a continuous search for mechanisms to promote national reconciliation, peace, security and stability in Somalia. On the Middle East, my Government remains greatly concerned by the latest developments in Jerusalem, in Gaza and in the West Bank. The seriousness of these events could jeopardize the peace process. We are convinced that rapid approach of Palestinian autonomy in the Gaza Strip, in Jericho and in the West Bank, and the necessary continuation of the peace process are the responsibility of the entire international community. This is why my delegation solemnly calls upon all the parties involved with the Middle East conflict, especially Israel and its Arab neighbours, to continue courageously on the path of peace, through the pursuit of negotiations, in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions and the Peace Agreements. The Republic of Guinea, convinced that dialogue, the creation of a climate of mutual trust and a greater mutual understanding constitute the only path towards a lasting solution on the Korean peninsula, will continue to encourage the two Korean States to persevere in their efforts towards independent and peaceful reunification. The signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement in 1995 has opened up fresh prospects for the restoration and consolidation of peace in the Balkans. With the recent elections in Bosnia, developments in the situation strengthen the aspirations to peace, stability and security of the region’s peoples. We must however remain vigilant. In this respect, my delegation welcomes and supports the efforts of the United Nations, of the Implementation Force (IFOR) and of the international criminal tribunal, aimed at consolidating peace and prosecuting those responsible for crimes against humanity. We invite the international community to display firmness in dealing with this question, in order to extinguish any re-emergence of the practices of “ethnic cleansing”. The Organization of the Islamic Conference must be involved more closely in the process begun in this country. The situation in Jammu and Kashmir continues to deteriorate. At its various summits and ministerial conferences, the Organization of the Islamic Conference has appealed to the international community to urge the protagonists to abide by the relevant Security Council 20 resolutions and thus enable the Kashmiri people to exercise freely its right to self-determination. We repeat this appeal, and invite them to begin a constructive dialogue. The Contact Group on Jammu and Kashmir of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, which is chaired by the Republic of Guinea, requests the United Nations and the Security Council to shoulder all their responsibilities by becoming decisively involved in the search for peace in the Indian sub-continent. Security Council resolutions 47 (1948), 91 (1951) and 122 (1957) on Jammu and Kashmir, which remain unimplemented after five decades, should not remain among the forgotten resolutions of our system. The Republic of Guinea therefore gives its full support to efforts by the Government of Pakistan aimed at finding a peaceful solution to the problem of Jammu and Kashmir through the opening of talks with India. My country follows the development of the situation in Afghanistan with the greatest attention. It urges all the parties concerned to work fraternally for the restoration of peace and for national reconciliation. In the context of its actions within the Organization of the Islamic Conference, of which it is a founding member and current Chairman of its Council of Ministers for Foreign Affairs, the Republic of Guinea — a secular country with a strong Muslim majority — is dedicated to promoting understanding and tolerance among civilizations, cultures and religions and to contributing to the rise of the forces of progress, justice and democracy in Muslim regions and in the world beyond. At a time when the world is experiencing profound changes of unequalled complexity and scope, it is essential to promote and consolidate an international environment that will foster peace, growth and development. It is regrettable that Africa does not play a greater role in major international negotiations. We must not continue to be spectators while the rest of the world carries out negotiations which involve us directly or indirectly. We are convinced that Africa has a role to play in this area. In the new configuration of today’s world, a country such as the Republic of Guinea — through its policy of peace and because its interests do not diverge from those of other regions of the world; through the nature of its sometimes exceptional relations with the parties in latent or overt conflicts in various regions; through its membership in several geo-political groups, several cultural zones and several continental and non-African organizations — could, where desirable, play a useful role in international negotiations. The permanence and fairness of development will be illusory so long as modalities that preserve and perpetuate present inequalities continue to govern international relations. Economic and social development, whose correlation with international peace and security is clear, requires of States and of the international institutions that are our development partners a pragmatic and coherent approach which takes into account the specific socio- economic needs and realities of our States. My delegation is pleased with the efforts that have already been made in the area of debt relief for developing countries and appeals to the solidarity of the international community for a real increase in development assistance, whose current tendency to decrease is a real source of concern for us in the face of our pressing development needs. In this regard, we welcome the decisions of the last summit of the Group of Seven, held at Lyon. Although the conclusion of the Uruguay Round opens up new prospects for the stimulation of international trade, it is essential to introduce new, energetic measures to save Africa from marginalization and impoverishment. It is a human, social, political and economic imperative for the international community and for all the actors and partners in development, in their own specific actions, to work responsibly for a more just and equitable framework for international trade, favouring a free and democratic economic partnership. We therefore congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali for his praiseworthy efforts which have made it possible to develop the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa. My country would like to express the hope that this will not suffer from the same lethargy which the United Nations Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and Development suffered from. Such a failure would be highly prejudicial and damaging to the credibility of the United Nations. In this regard, my delegation seeks the urgent implementation of this ambitious Initiative, for it is undeniable that it is one of the best ways of giving development a chance and new hope for future generations. We would also like to express our satisfaction at the convening of the second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements and to support the important 21 resolutions arising from that Conference promoting access to suitable housing for all. Along these lines, my delegation would like to take this opportunity to welcome the holding of the World Food Summit, which will take place from 13 to 17 November 1996 at the headquarters of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. My Government believes that the enhancement of our Organization’s effectiveness lies above all in the redefinition of some of its objectives, especially in adapting the functioning of its organs to reflect better the new face of international relations. With regard to the Security Council, my Government fully supports the review and expansion of its current composition on the basis of equitable geographical representation so that the southern hemisphere — which since 1945 has been the theatre of many conflicts — can participate in its activities which are fundamental to the maintenance of international peace and security. My wish, therefore, is for the United Nations to carry out its restructuring. Whether with regard to revitalizing the General Assembly and its organs, to expanding or strengthening the Security Council, to rationalizing activities and procedures, to redefining programmes and mandates or to consolidating the financial and material bases of the Organization, all Member States must work with courage, clarity and a high sense of responsibility for the proper implementation of these reforms in order to give the United Nations reliable and effective institutions worthy of the vision and aspirations of our peoples. That is why my delegation, while expressing its satisfaction at the evident willingness and efforts of our Organization to adapt to the world’s changes, is in favour of strengthening its potential and improving the interaction among the various organizations of the United Nations system and other development partners. In conclusion, the Republic of Guinea would like to express the hope that courageous and realistic decisions will come out of the work of this session, and it remains convinced that — apart from divergences and differences in approach in the search for ways and means to achieve solutions to the problems facing our States — the United Nations community which we constitute will continue to work successfully for peace, security and the well-being of all, in the spirit of active solidarity, as the founding fathers of this Organization dreamed.  ﻿I wish to congratulate the President warmly on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly and to reiterate our trust in his qualities and skills, which will help in conducting the work of this session. I assure him that the delegation of Guinea- Bissau is ready and willing to help him. We would also like to congratulate his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the devotion and constructive spirit with which he carried out his duties. We take this opportunity to underscore our appreciation to and reiterate our confidence in the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose initiative and personal involvement in the reform of the United Nations system have made satisfactory results possible. Last year, over 185 States met in New York City to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. This historic event was an excellent opportunity for the United Nations to evaluate and assess the state of our Organization in a changing world and to cast a glance forward into the future. Today, as yesterday, a large part of the world’s population — which, to date, has experienced neither peace nor security, not to mention social well-being — place their trust in the United Nations, the only institution with a universal mission, capable of promoting international peace and security and developing socio-economic cooperation on a global scale. The numerous challenges and hopes which the United Nations must respond to today are unprecedented. It is therefore important that we make every effort to restructure and revitalize the Organization, because the United Nations is facing an increasingly complex international situation. In that connection, we commend the Open-Ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council for its contribution to overall efforts made on this important and timely question. Guinea- Bissau is of the view that all related proposals of the African Group, and other proposals such as that of Italy, should be given due consideration. In a world beset by numerous grave conflicts, the United Nations is incontrovertibly, the best forum for achieving the ideals which underpin its irreplaceable role in promoting international peace and security. However, despite the ongoing efforts of our Organization, peace and stability are still a dream in many parts of the world. Conflicts and fratricidal warfare, and the persistence of various kinds of serious tension among States, have made innocent victims of entire populations, causing loss of human life and provoking massive movements of peoples and refugees. Unfortunately, Africa is the continent most affected by this tragedy. Angola, Burundi, Liberia, Rwanda and Somalia are dramatic examples of Africa’s recent history. My recent visit to Angola — which coincided with my country’s presidency of the Security Council — as Special Envoy of the President of the Republic of Guinea- Bissau, Mr. Joa¯o Bernardo Vieira, demonstrated our people’s long-standing solidarity with the people of Angola and illustrates our unequivocal will to promote confidence among the parties, which is essential to the success of the peace process. In that connection, we should like to stress the important role of the United Nations, the Troika and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Blondin Beye, in the establishment of the peace process in Angola. We are convinced that the road we have travelled and the successes achieved to date fully warrant the confidence of the international community and its continued support for the peace process in Angola. Guinea-Bissau hopes that the reasons for the delay of the full implementation of the Lusaka Protocol will be overcome. We deplore the tragedy that is dividing Liberia, a country of our subregion, just as we deplore the ongoing violations of the agreements concluded, which increase the loss of human life and provoke new outbreaks of violence. We are also gravely concerned to note the negative impact of the war in Liberia on the neighbouring countries. We urge all warring factions to respect the new implementation plan of the Abuja Agreement and of the Liberian National Transitional Government. We also invite them to cooperate fully with the Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group, the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia and the rest of the international community in the search for a definitive solution to the problem in Liberia. The situation in the Great Lakes region, particularly the situation prevailing in Burundi, is also of great concern to us. We support the efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity to avoid a repetition of the Rwandan tragedy in these countries. As for Western Sahara, we reiterate our support for the efforts of the Secretary-General of the United Nations to organize the referendum. Guinea-Bissau continues to focus special attention on the situation in East Timor which needs a negotiated, peaceful, political approach if a solution is to be found. In this context, we would like to welcome the talks between Portugal and Indonesia under the auspices of the United Nations to find a just solution to this conflict. On behalf of our Government, I reiterate our firm conviction that the Republic of China on Taiwan should be part of the United Nations on the basis of respect for the principle of universality and for the legal equality of States. The fundamental rights of 21 million inhabitants of a territory under the jurisdiction of a legal Government whose President has been democratically elected provide the political and legal basis for the recognition of their right to international status as a sovereign State under the legal and judicial terms enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. The reunification of China is a question that must be resolved by the people of China itself. However, the Republic of China on Taiwan is legally entitled to enjoy international status before reunification — in other words, its recognition as a State and application of the principle of parallel representation of divided States. It is essential that the Middle East peace process be supported. We consider that any lasting solution to the Middle East conflict must respect the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to self-determination and to the establishment of an independent State, and must respect the independence and territorial integrity of all States of the region, including the State of Israel, and their right to live in security within internationally recognized boundaries. The tragic events of recent days have weakened the peace process while seriously affecting world public opinion. We urge the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority to persevere on the path of dialogue towards the restoration of a climate of trust, which is vital for the establishment of lasting peace. We welcome the meeting between President Arafat and Prime Minister Netanyahu, which is an important step on that path. We commend all parties that are contributing to the restoration of the Israel-Palestinian dialogue, especially the Government of the United States of America. The holding of elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a positive element in the resolution of this crisis in Europe. We hope that all the parties concerned will henceforth devote all their energies to the reconstruction of that devastated country, to ensure a future of peace, tolerance and development. The embargo against Cuba, whose repercussions gravely affect the people of that country, must be resolved through dialogue and negotiation by the parties concerned, with a view to achieving a complete and satisfactory solution. Poverty, malnutrition, hunger and major endemic diseases are a painful reality that affects a large part of the population of developing countries. We welcome the convening at Rome next November of the World Food Summit, organized by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). Guinea-Bissau is convinced that international security and stability depend on the collective struggle against all the internal and external factors that force a large part of the world’s population to live in abject poverty. Indeed, the persistence of poverty throughout the world requires an ongoing sustained effort on the part of the community of nations and calls for a global approach to resolve the major socio-economic problems affecting the world. The debt burden and debt-servicing gravely jeopardize development in Africa. During recent years, as was clearly demonstrated by the mid-term review of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, our countries have become net exporters of capital because of the financial agreements they must honour. Indeed, the amounts allocated to debt- servicing greatly exceed external resource flows. Guinea- 12 Bissau is no exception. Overall, third world economies have seen little improvement. The gap between developed and developing countries continues to grow because of the slow rate of economic growth in the developing countries in general and the least- developed countries in particular.We welcome the action undertaken by the United Nations, especially the System- wide Special Initiative for Africa. My Government continues to devote considerable efforts to the economic recovery of our country, strictly applying the structural adjustment programme agreed with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. However, efforts to restore our country’s macroeconomic balance and the well-being of our people should be supplemented by additional support from the international community, which we hope will continue to be forthcoming in support of our efforts in that direction. Guinea-Bissau, an African country and a member of the Portuguese-speaking community, welcomes Portugal’s initiative to propose to its European Union partners the convening of a European-African summit, whose objective would be to promote a political dialogue aimed at laying a new foundation for a new global partnership. Environmental protection and the rational utilization of our planet’s natural resources are the responsibility of all humanity. Aware of this reality, Guinea-Bissau has designed with its cooperation partners a strategy for sustainable development that respects environmental balance and which can be considered socially viable and just. In that context, our Government is making considerable efforts to implement the recommendations of the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development, the Platform of Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women, held at Beijing, and the recommendations of the second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, held at Istanbul. Respect for and the full exercise of basic human rights are elements of freedom, peace and international stability. Guinea-Bissau, a democratic country, is resolved to preserve intrinsic human values, for harmonious and integrated development. The United Nations is intended to be the appropriate forum for finding concerted comprehensive solutions to the major challenges facing the world today. That is why it is vital to increase its ability to prevent conflicts and preserve peace and to promote socio- economic development. Today Guinea-Bissau, more than ever before, is determined to contribute to the achievement of the ideals enshrined in the United Nations Charter.  ﻿My delegation wishes to express its satisfaction and joy in seeing Mr. Razali Ismail preside over the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. His unanimous election is an honour to him personally and also to his country, Malaysia, with which Ghana has forged very warm and special relations. We have no doubt that his sterling qualities and long record of distinguished service to his Government and the international community will stand him in good stead in leading this Assembly to a successful conclusion of its work. To his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, we wish to express our appreciation for the able manner in which he led us through very difficult negotiations during his presidency. Our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has demonstrated, through his indefatigable energy and commitment to the independence and well-being of the United Nations, that he is up to the challenges that lie ahead of us in seeking to revitalize this Organization for the twenty-first century. It was only a year ago that we celebrated with fanfare the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of our Organization. The world leaders assembled in this Assembly at that time once again rededicated themselves to achieving the visions embodied in the Charter of our Organization and fulfilling its goals and objectives, which serve the largest interests of humanity. We have gathered here again this year to take stock of developments since our last meeting and to renew, through various decisions and resolutions, our commitment to the promotion of peace and prosperity for our mutual benefit. The end of the cold war provides us with a golden opportunity to work earnestly in pursuit of the international community’s desire for general and complete disarmament — including nuclear disarmament — to be achieved under effective international control. Through the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and nuclear-weapon-free zones, most of us non-nuclear- weapon States are making our contributions in this respect. My Government is in the process of ratifying the Pelindaba Treaty, of which we are a proud signatory, and we appreciate the support of the non-nuclear and nuclear- weapon States for that Treaty. However, such zones can 20 only be given meaning by the nuclear-weapon States’ genuinely accepting the need for the eventual elimination of nuclear weapons within a given time-frame. It is with this in view that my country voted in favour of the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and signed it, despite its shortcomings. We see the Treaty as a first step in the eventual elimination of nuclear weapons in the world. We also join the Non-Aligned Movement in urging all nuclear-weapon States to conclude an international instrument that would offer unconditional and legally binding assurances to all non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons. This will enable all States subscribing to international instruments on non-proliferation to cooperate freely and unconditionally in the application of nuclear technology for peaceful purposes. We will also continue to urge that more attention be paid to conventional armaments and to efforts to enhance international cooperation to curtail and eventually prohibit the use of anti-personnel land-mines and other inhumane weapons, which continue to inflict untold damage and hardship on innocent people long after the conflicts in which they were deployed have ended. Similar attention should be given to international cooperation in curbing illicit transfers of arms. Success in this field will go a long way towards curtailing the availability of weapons, which feed the numerous conflicts we have had to contend with in recent years, to drug traffickers and terrorists. Internal strife within States, nurtured by racial and religious intolerance, and the resort to arms for the settlement of disputes threaten the very existence of a number of States in diverse regions of the world. In all of these States, the intransigence of warlords poses serious challenges to the capacity of the international community in general and the United Nations in particular to meet their responsibilities with regard to the maintenance of international peace and security. We have seen this in the former Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Somalia, Rwanda, Burundi, Angola, Liberia and Haiti. The efforts made so far to deal with these conflicts are laudable, but more needs to be done. That is what we are doing in West Africa, despite the recent setbacks suffered from the attacks on forces of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) in December 1995 and the outbreak of fighting in Monrovia in April and May 1996. Though the implementation of the programme for the disarmament and demobilization of the fighters, their reinsertion into normal civil life and the holding of democratic elections in Liberia, as set out in the Abuja Agreement, are now behind schedule, the meeting of the ECOWAS Committee of Nine on Liberia, in August 1996 in Abuja, saw the Liberian factional leaders renew once again their support for the peace process and their pledges to cooperate with the efforts to bring the Abuja Agreement back on track. Thus far we have been able to restore the capital, Monrovia, to its status as a safe haven and reinstate the Council of State and the Liberian National Transitional Government. The ceasefire between the warring factions in the country has remained largely respected, although there are still disturbing reports of hostilities between some of the factions. We do appreciate the assistance of some individual countries to ECOMOG, as well as the cooperation of the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia, but we wish to stress once again that these modest forms of support are grossly inadequate, viewed against the enormity of the tasks in Liberia and the present state of the economies of ECOWAS member States. The Liberian factional leaders are tired of the war. The subregion has been able to broker peace amongst them, but it lacks the means to provide the resources to implement the peace accord. The international community should respond to the call for resources now or run the risk of the situation deteriorating once again. We shall not tire of reminding the international community that this Organization, the Security Council in particular, bears the ultimate responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Regional or subregional efforts like ours can only complement, not substitute for, those of the international community, which must face its responsibilities more seriously in Liberia. For our part, we in Ghana have endeavoured over the years to play the role assigned to us within the limits of our resources in meeting our common responsibilities towards the maintenance of international peace and security. Since our participation in the United Nations peacekeeping operations in the Belgian Congo — now Zaire — in the 1960s, Ghana has been present in almost all the continents where United Nations peacekeeping duties call, and we are indeed proud of our contribution to these international peace efforts. On the threshold of the twenty-first century, we cannot hide our amazement that some people and their God-given territories remain under colonial or alien domination and foreign occupation. Even more astonishing is the fact that some otherwise democratic, administering countries and colonial Powers fail to 21 recognize the inalienable right of the administered or colonial peoples to self-determination, and they fail to recognize that colonial domination is among the worst forms of violations of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of colonial peoples. It is therefore no accident that we should be gravely concerned at the continuing lack of progress on the question of Western Sahara. Despite all of its shortcomings, the settlement plan agreed to by the parties to the Western Sahara problem, under the auspices of this Organization, remains the best option for pursuing a long-lasting solution in the interest of the Saharan people. We remain concerned that the identification process has had to be suspended and the Identification Commission withdrawn as a result of the failure of the parties to agree on some relevant important procedures and modalities. To break the stalemate, dialogue is essential, and we once more call on the Assembly to encourage the principal parties to the conflict to engage, under the auspices of the United Nations, in direct talks that can open the way for the continuation of the identification process. Urgent attention and action is required to bring to an end the present unacceptable situation, which poses a veritable threat to subregional, regional and wider international security. In a similar vein, we take this opportunity to reaffirm our unflinching support for the Middle East Peace Process initiated at the Madrid Peace Conference in 1991 and culminating in the Oslo accords. Over the past five years, several gains have been made, giving rise to hopes that a just and comprehensive peace in the region is attainable that would take cognizance of the legitimate right to self- determination of the Palestinian people and their right to an independent state. We therefore see the recent outbreak of violence in the area as a set-back to those laudable efforts and as a reflection of a growing mistrust on the part of the parties. We call on them to honour all their commitments under the agreements reached and to bring the peace process back on track. In this connection we welcome the efforts of the United States Administration to bring the parties together once more. I should like at this juncture to refer to the question of the United Nations sanctions imposed on Libya. The Organization of African Unity (OAU), the League of Arab States and the Non-Aligned Movement, which represent the vast majority of States and peoples of the world, have been calling for some years now for the sanctions on Libya to be lifted. Our call for dialogue and negotiations that could lead to an acceptable solution of the dispute between Libya and the three permanent members of the Security Council, as well as proposals for a fair trial of the two suspects in The Hague, by Scottish judges and under Scottish law, have not elicited the expected response. Let it not be construed that our calls are based merely on sentimental considerations of regional solidarity. After careful examination of the facts as made known to the international community, and with due respect for the tenets of international law, we think that the three States concerned need to reciprocate the flexibility shown by the Libyan authorities and help to bring to a close an issue that has unjustifiably caused untold suffering to the innocent people of Libya. Issues of this nature justify our support for the establishment of an international criminal court for the promotion and maintenance of international criminal justice on a fair and equitable basis. The relics of the cold war in international relations remain particularly on the Korean peninsula and in United States-Cuba relations. We believe that the four-party talks proposed to ease tension on the Korean peninsula should foster dialogue, understanding and cooperation among all the countries concerned and enhance the process aimed at the eventual unification of the two Koreas. With regard to United States-Cuba relations, we hope that the blockades and mutual exchanges of rhetoric will give way to a new era of dialogue and mutual respect, in tune with current trends in international relations. As has been eloquently stated by the Secretary- General in his Agenda for Peace, there can be no development without peace, just as there can be no peace without development. We are convinced that we need to pursue development as a means of preventing most of the conflicts, tragedies and humanitarian disasters that confront the world today. We are enjoined under the Charter of the United Nations to “employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples”. The need for concerted international action to restructure the international economy; construct a new regime to guide trade, aid and resource flows; and address the problems posed by environmental degradation, population explosion, the debt overhang, abject poverty and disease in developing countries, cannot be overemphasized. Such measures would redress the existing global economic inequalities and eradicate poverty in a way that will engender the peace and security that we all so dearly need. As expected, the series of global conferences held recently under the auspices of the United Nations, which involved not only Governments but also non- 22 governmental organizations, civil society, the media and the private sector, have raised awareness of and built consensus around a number of overarching issues concerning economic growth and sustainable development. The time has come to shift into implementation gear and invest the same political will and energy in the monitoring of the follow-up process. We want to safeguard the environment and the welfare of our children, eradicate poverty, ensure sustainable development, and mainstream gender concerns in all our activities at the national and international levels, so that women and men participate fully and equally in all spheres of life as we approach the new dawn. It bears mentioning that Africa’s socio-economic difficulties are further compounded by the twin processes of globalization and liberalization. Africa therefore needs the special attention of the international community to ensure that the profound economic and institutional reforms it is undertaking to create an enabling environment for development yield maximum benefit for its people. The launching of the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa in March 1996, if fully implemented, would contribute meaningfully to this endeavour. We are painfully aware that international financial support for Africa is insufficient and unreliable. It is therefore necessary for the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Africa to focus on the enhancement and strengthening of Africa’s subregional economic groupings, which will serve as building blocks for an African economic community. This in turn will ensure Africa’s effective participation in the emerging global economic order that is increasingly being shaped by the forces of globalization and economic liberalization. For our part, we in Ghana are coping, not without difficulty, with the challenges posed by these forces, including those that are concomitant with the structural adjustment programmes that we have pursued for well over a decade. Coupled with these are those other imperatives that come with the processes of democratization and good governance. Our democratically elected Government will present itself to the electorate on 7 December 1996 to seek a fresh mandate to continue with the policies that have ensured stability and development in our country in recent years. The entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is a welcome development, and we fully appreciate the numerous efforts and various compromises that contributed immensely to putting into place the various organs of the International Seabed Authority. We hope that adequate resources will be made available to enable developing countries to utilize fully the benefits, and also discharge the responsibilities, deriving from the Convention. The financial situation of our Organization remains precarious and a source of concern to my delegation. The crunch in the cash-flow situation has not changed for the better, principally because a number of countries, including some of the largest, are neither paying their contributions nor making good on their arrears. It is important for Member States to provide the United Nations system with the means and resources required to accomplish the tasks assigned to it. Support for the United Nations should manifest itself not only in an eagerness to restructure it to make it more effective, but also in the payment in full, on time and without conditions of assessed contributions, in order to promote the successful pursuit of the objectives of the Organization at a time of both challenge and opportunity. In addressing the cash-flow situation, we also wish to deplore the high degree of wastage and overlap in the system, especially during the start-up and liquidation phases of peacekeeping operations as well as in the proliferation of mandates. With the consolidation of the internal oversight mechanisms into the Office of Internal Oversight Services, coupled with the existing external oversight mechanisms, it is hoped that the financial functioning of the Organization will be more cost- effective. I should like to conclude by reaffirming my delegation’s support for the reforms currently being pursued by the United Nations. In our view, the reforms in the financial administration of the Organization, the revitalization of its economic and social structures, the strengthening of the General Assembly and the Secretariat, and the restructuring of the Security Council all should contribute to a better functioning United Nations suited for the challenges ahead of us as we enter the new millennium.﻿Allow me first, Sir, to congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session and to wish him every success. I would also like to thank his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the outstanding manner in which he carried out his duties. The succession of Governments, which is a defining principle of Israeli democracy, has recently brought to power a new Government in Israel. A section of the international community has deemed this democratic Israeli choice impertinent, suggesting that it would work against regional peace. In response to this prejudice I would like to make a simple statement: Israel is united in its quest for peace. It is not a question of good people and peace-seekers on one side and mischief-makers and people who reject peace on the other. In Israel, those on the left and right converge in their quest for peace, their sensibilities and differences notwithstanding. I wish to raise the recent history of the Israeli-Arab peace process in order to dispel any ambiguity regarding the practice of peace in Israel and to show that the new majority cannot be disqualified from efforts to achieve peace. The peace between Israel and Egypt is a founding landmark of coexistence between Israelis and Arabs. The Madrid Conference, to which I had the honour of contributing, also bears the special stamp of the pioneers of peace, to whose achievements the new majority in Israel are the direct heirs. The firm commitment of the Netanyahu Government with respect to the Oslo accords is also closely tied to the peace process, which our immediate neighbours, Egypt and Jordan, helped to shape. However, my Government’s swift engagement in the peace process has been minimized, reduced and distorted. The meetings that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence of the State of Israel and I have had with the Chairman of the Palestinian Authority have been met with sarcasm and given only secondary importance. Those meetings dealt precisely with the substance and the content of peace. They initiated the ways and means necessary for the achievement of peace. They amplified the resonance of the Oslo accords and extended mutual Israeli-Palestinian recognition to new sections of society and Israeli political classes. It is Israel’s determination to reach peace according to the policies and fundamental guidelines of the new Government. On its road to peace, the Government of Israel is guided by several principles, which I would like to expound. For us, security is neither an obsession nor a blind belief. It touches upon our very existence in a region where, unfortunately, threats and instability still rage. Security must be the cornerstone in the architecture of peace. It cannot, under any circumstances, tag along behind a process in which terrorism and violence have not yet spoken their last word. Negotiations themselves, through their joint creative energies, allow us to control the dangers and drifts. The battle against terrorism and its infrastructures and its sources of financing and assistance is not only for us to fight. We solemnly call upon the United Nations relentlessly to pursue active cooperation in the struggle against terrorism and in condemning it unequivocally. It is imperative to preserve the Israeli-Palestinian peace process free from violence. I have just returned from the Washington summit, held at the initiative of President Clinton. On behalf of the Government and the people of Israel, I wish, from this rostrum, to thank the President and the Secretary of State of the United States for their exemplary contribution to peace by bringing the parties together and for their profound commitment to reinvigorating the peace process. In this respect the role and contribution of the United States remain of great importance. On Sunday the Israeli and Palestinian teams will convene again in an attempt to resolve their differences in respect of the various agreements. We are responsible to our people and to our whole region in this matter. We must therefore display good faith and mutual understanding in order to fulfil our mission, and to send out the message of stable peace and lasting security. 12 The Washington summit reconfirmed the principles and guidelines for the negotiations. I associate myself wholeheartedly with President Clinton’s statement that face- to-face negotiations in a constructive atmosphere are the key to resolving problems. A future free of hostility and the renunciation of violence: these represent the very basis of mutual efforts for peace. The choice is in our hands. Will we opt for cooperation, progress, real peace and security? Or will we revert to the dark days of conflict, confrontation and violence, thereby putting an end to all hope? For its part, Israel has chosen hope. Another major principle in our search for peace is the will of the partners to allow a tangible peace to exist. Regional cooperation is a critical factor in ensuring peace and stability. Israel entertains no dreams of economic hegemony; it wishes to play its fair role in the creation of regional cooperation. This is a basic principle of normalization. Peace and normalization are one and indivisible. Consequently, if we are to follow the logic of peace and dialogue, we cannot risk having normalization taken hostage and brought to a halt. Israel makes no secret that normalization of its relations with the Arab world must be fully implemented. This means comprehensive political and economic relations, and the broadest possible intellectual, cultural and spiritual acceptance. Some of our neighbours still view Israel as a body foreign to the region. Normalization must erase forever the residue of this ideological negation. Normalization is the indispensable cement for keeping together the edifice of peace. One of our immediate goals is the resumption of negotiations with Syria on the basis of the Madrid principles, which inaugurated the dialogue between the two countries. We recognize Syria’s important role in the establishment of lasting peace in our region. From this rostrum, we call upon President Al-Assad to resume negotiations. As to Lebanon, we have no territorial disputes with Lebanon. We are committed to its sovereignty. Lebanon can be fertile ground for the restoration of confidence and the building of peace. Egypt and its President, Mr. Hosni Mubarak, are our partners in peace. They are the authors and actors that have always been engaged in all stages of the peace process. Jordan is unquestionably a decisive factor in the building of peace in our region. A man of peace and dialogue, His Majesty King Hussein has actively supported the peace process and has provided a vital guarantee of continuity. The Washington summit enjoyed his complete support. On the long path to peace, the country of Morocco, the country of my birth and family roots, has always walked and illuminated the path of Israeli-Arab reconciliation. The vision displayed by His Majesty King Hassan II has left its distinctive mark on the entire Arab- Israeli dialogue. The Moroccan King will continue his essential role and breathe into peace the remarkable inspiration of his solidarity. I would like to pay tribute also to the active support of Tunisia. Oman, Qatar and, more recently, Mauritania have all helped to consolidate peace efforts. The peace process has benefitted from the considerable support of the co-sponsors, the United States and Russia, and from the active and positive contribution of the European Union and Norway and of Powers such as Japan and Canada. Once again, I wish solemnly to reaffirm Israel’s irreversible commitment and determination to pursue the path of peace. Since the dawn of history our region has been a meeting point of diverse civilizations and cultures, a vibrant wellspring of progress for all of humanity. At the crossroads of continents and countries, the Middle East must, in times of peace, discover again the genius of this place and the richness of its edifying civilizations. Arabs and Jews must pool their knowledge and wisdom to regenerate their vocation as the promoters of life and humanity. Through international cooperation, Israel is sharing with young countries from Africa to Asia, from Latin America to China, its achievements and assets in the fields of agriculture, health and science. We hope that the day will come when a regional security system will be established in the Middle East to provide a cooperative multilateral response to all security problems. The advantage of this regional approach is that it is based on direct negotiations between the States of the region. The first stage is to build confidence, and thereafter we must put arms control and disarmament 13 mechanisms into place. For this reason, Israel welcomed the establishment of the Arms Control and Regional Security Working Group as part of the multilateral talks. We hope that in the future this framework will encompass all States of the Middle East. Israel’s position is defined by a dual mandate: to set ambitious objectives, and to pursue them pragmatically and realistically. After peace and reconciliation have been established among all the States of the region, Israel will endeavour to establish in the Middle East a zone free of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons as well as ballistic missiles. This demilitarization will be subjected to rigorous verification. Negotiations to establish such a zone will commence following the signing of bilateral peace accords between Israel and all the countries of the region. In the meantime Israel will implement confidence-building measures that will increase openness and transparency and, thereby, make a contribution to easing tensions and preventing all armed conflict. We generally prefer regional security arrangements. However, Israel is in favour of the implementation of certain aspects of international mechanisms for arms control and disarmament where appropriate. Accordingly, Israel signed the Convention on conventional weapons and adopted a moratorium on the manufacture and export of anti-personnel landmines. It has also signed the Treaty against the use of chemical weapons and now the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Israel will consider ratification of that Treaty depending upon developments in the region, particularly the adoption of that Treaty by the major countries. Israel has thus demonstrated its determination to be involved, whenever possible, in the efforts of the international community to prevent the spread of conventional and non-conventional weapons. Israel strongly desires to be an active and fully-fledged member of the family of nations represented in this Organization. We note with regret and deep disappointment that the question of our membership in a regional group has still not been resolved. Israel is thus deprived of the right available to all States Members of the United Nations to participate on an equal footing in all its activities. This impairs the principle of equality among sovereign nations under the Charter of the United Nations. I hope that this injustice will be rectified and that Israel will finally be able to act within this Organization on the same footing as all other Member States. It is with the subject of Jerusalem, whose very name is invoked in so many prayers for peace, that I wish to conclude. Jerusalem is the cradle of the three great religions. We reaffirm this status daily by respecting and ensuring total freedom of worship and spiritual expression for all believers. It is an entirely shared religious reality to which Israel has made a profound contribution. Jerusalem, the horizon of our dreams and prayers, has throughout our exile and dispersions constituted the summit of our collective being. Capital of Israel, both in ancient and modern times, never has Jerusalem been the capital of any country other than Israel. Rarely if ever has any sovereign State been denied the right to freely determine its capital. Israel, the people of peace restored to sovereignty after 2,000 years of exile, has returned to the city of peace, Yerushalayim: Jerusalem. Thereby it demonstrates its unswerving devotion to its ancestral capital to renew its psalm of peace: “Pray for the peace of Jerusalem”. We shall tirelessly dedicate all our efforts to that search for peace. ﻿On behalf of my delegation, Sir, I take pleasure in extending to you our heartfelt felicitations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. We in the Philippines and in the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) derive special gratification from congratulating you, a citizen of an ASEAN country, on this great honour. The Philippines pays tribute to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has led our Organization in the most difficult circumstances. I must beg your indulgence, Mr. President, and that of our colleagues to speak briefly about recent events in my country, developments which we consider historic, opening a bright new chapter in the history of the Philippines. Exactly a month ago, on 2 September, the Philippine Government and the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF), which had waged a rebellion for more than a quarter of a century, signed an agreement ending the conflict in Mindanao and establishing a zone of peace and development in that island-region. On 9 September, Professor Nur Misuari, leader of the MNLF, ran for and was elected to the office of Governor of the Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao, which is, by virtue of a plebiscite, composed of four provinces in which Muslim Filipinos are in the majority. At the same time, in accordance with the 2 September agreement, the Southern Philippines Council for Peace and Development is being organized under the leadership of the MNLF to help promote peace and development in 14 provinces and nine cities in the southern Philippines. Thus has the Philippines opted for national reconciliation as the only true road to peace and development. Here, I pay tribute and give thanks to the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), and to the OIC’s Committee of Six on the Situation of the Muslims in the Southern Philippines, under the wise and vigorous leadership of Indonesia and with the especially active involvement of Libya, for guiding us along that road towards the goal which we have now achieved. I mention this because I know that what is essentially a domestic development in the Philippines finds resonance in other places and in the world at large. We all know only too well that conflicts arising from ethnic and cultural differences are not unique to the Philippines. But just as the Mindanao conflict was not unique, neither was the process of reconciliation that ended it. We consider the settlement in Mindanao a reflection of the salutary trend towards peace and reconciliation in the world, as well as a modest contribution to it. In South Africa, the racist abomination that was apartheid has been abolished, and a multiracial Government based on the rule of the majority and the rights of the minority has been put in place, lending new stability to southern Africa. In the Middle East, nations in contention agreed to take the road of peace. Regrettably, recent events have shown that the road is still strewn with obstacles. We retain the faith that these obstacles are surmountable with good will and a firm conviction that peace must not be destroyed again in a land so revered by people of many faiths. Our most fervent prayers go to the leaders and nations involved that they may soon return to the path of mutual understanding, reconciliation, justice and peace, for both the Palestinian and the Israeli peoples. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we can at least hope that the Dayton accords, as well as the 14 September and subsequent elections, will put behind us the singular horror of “ethnic cleansing” and lead to a situation where different ethnic groups can live once again in peace and tolerance. In this hemisphere, the Government of Guatemala and armed dissidents have achieved an accord of security and justice. In our own region of South-East Asia, we look forward to the completion of a new Constitution by Myanmar that will provide a place in the nation’s political life for the nationalities that have for so long been in rebellion and for political groups of many persuasions. Unfortunately, inter-ethnic conflicts in far too many places continue to inflict suffering on innocent people — notably, for example, in Rwanda and Burundi. Around the world, simmering beneath the surface, are grievances arising from growing disparities in economic well-being and social status within States and nations. However, on a global scale, there is a clear trend towards reconciliation and tolerance. As it is within nations, so is it between nations. We may be witnessing a new era, one not only of relative peace but also of close cooperation in dealing with the global challenges of today. The cold war has ended, and with it the deadly reality of armed confrontation between nuclear-armed blocs. Even the old North-South economic divide is being subsumed in a new global trading regime and in regional economic arrangements, such as the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, in which the interests of both developed and developing countries are taken into account. These developments in reconciliation and cooperation give us hope that mankind can find the will to work together in meeting the old and new challenges that confront the world as a whole. I see six major challenges that are central to the future welfare and the very survival of mankind. The first has to do with the surfeit of weapons that continues to plague the world, particularly the continued deployment and development of nuclear arms and other weapons of mass destruction, the expanding volume of the traffic in conventional arms and the continued production and persistent use of especially injurious devices of war. The second lies in the potential for conflict over maritime jurisdictions and resources and the need for stable maritime regimes. Another is mankind’s continuing assault on the environment, putting into question the sustainability of the world’s development. Yet another challenge is the need to maintain the momentum of the liberalization of international trade while cushioning weaker nations and vulnerable sectors of society from its undesirable effects. The fifth challenge is the necessity of ensuring human welfare and dignity within the nation- State and within society. The sixth and last is the growing menace of organized criminal gangs purveying terror, deadly weapons, illicit drugs, indentured labour, and the bodies of our women and children across international borders. We have made significant progress in the control of arms; but the world remains a dangerous place, and much work remains to be done. We have extended indefinitely the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Many of us have signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty that the General Assembly adopted last month. But we should not stop there, for these are but steps on the road towards complete nuclear disarmament. We continue to call upon the nuclear- weapon States to take seriously their commitment under 2 Article VI of the NPT to negotiate in good faith the abolition of nuclear weapons. Towards this end, the Philippines once more joins the call for the parties to the NPT to draw up an international convention prohibiting the use and threat of use of nuclear weapons. As another step, we reiterate the call for the conclusion of an international convention against the production and stockpiling of fissile materials. Sir, last December in Bangkok, your Prime Minister and my President, together with the Heads of Government of the eight other countries of South-East Asia, signed the South east Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone Treaty. We urge the nuclear-weapon States to commit themselves to respect this Treaty’s provisions by adhering to its protocol. Together with the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco), the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty (Treaty of Rarotonga), the Pelindaba Text of the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty, and that for Antarctica, the South-East Asian Treaty is a major step towards a southern hemisphere free of nuclear weapons. We support the political linkage among these nuclear-free zones, as was recently proposed. Of particular concern to us is the unacceptably large number of innocent persons, including a disproportionate number of young children, killed or maimed by landmines. The Philippines has ratified the Convention and its Protocol restricting the use of excessively injurious weapons, landmines, booby traps and similar devices. We have joined the move towards a global ban on anti-personnel mines. In this spirit, President Ramos while on a visit last December to Cambodia, a country ravaged by landmines, ordered the immediate destruction of the Claymore mines which were then still in the inventory of the armed forces of the Philippines. Compliance with the President’s instructions has been completed. Another potential threat to global and regional peace and security has been the developing scramble for jurisdiction, resources and strategic position in the world’s oceans. This has been strongly evident in the situation in the South China Sea, which for the most part is surrounded by South-East Asian States. Fortunately, the international community has had the collective wisdom to agree on a set of rules, primarily in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, to govern the use of the sea. Not least, the Convention subjects maritime jurisdictions to the rule of law, defining the nature and limits of those jurisdictions and providing the legal framework for their establishment and for negotiating settlements where they overlap. The world is threatened not only by weapons of war and by disputes over territory, but also by mankind’s assault on the world’s fragile environment. The Philippines is firmly committed to the protection of the environment within its national jurisdiction. Environmental protection is a vital consideration in the approval of major development projects. We shall conserve the ecological integrity of the Philippines exclusive economic zone as well as of its internal waters. As an archipelagic country whose exclusive economic zone extends to a portion of the South China Sea, the Philippines places particular importance on preserving the ecological integrity of that body of water, and would welcome the sharing of knowledge and experience gained from efforts to protect the environment in similar bodies of water elsewhere in the world. A potential threat to the environment arises from the growing use of nuclear energy in the generation of electricity. This growth has been particularly rapid in East Asia, producing nuclear waste with corresponding rapidity. While nuclear power is relatively clean as a source of energy, accidents in the operation of nuclear plants and in the disposal of nuclear waste can cause devastation for the environment as well as for human lives. Equally damaging is the reckless manner in which decommissioned nuclear power plants and nuclear- powered vessels are discarded. It is time for the international community to address this burgeoning problem with the seriousness and urgency that it deserves. Last May, President Ramos proposed the possible organization of ASIATOM, an international body to look into this concern in East Asia and to devise measures to deal with it. Along with the breakup of empires, the dissolution of hostile alliances, and the spread of the spirit of reconciliation within and between nations, one salutary global development in recent years has been the establishment of an international trading regime based on the increasingly free exchange of goods and services. This development was made possible by the embrace by nearly all the world of market forces as the most efficient way of creating wealth for the world’s people. The efficacy of this principle of international economic relations has been demonstrated in South-East 3 Asia, where countries have opened up their markets to one another, through the Free Trade Area of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, and to the world for the benefit of all. Next month the Philippines will have the honour of hosting the annual meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC), including an informal meeting of leaders of the 18 participating economies on the Pacific rim. At that meeting, we will consolidate plans of individual APEC economies into a coherent Manila action plan for APEC that will free up and ease trade, and that will attain the target set for free trade by the year 2010 for the developed participants and by 2020 for the developing economies. The plan includes ways of engaging in economic and technical cooperation, particularly in order to help the less developed economies to adjust to the free- trade regime envisioned in APEC. A few weeks after the APEC meeting, the first Ministerial Meeting of the World Trade Organization, to be held in Singapore, will review the implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements and seek to develop a work programme to sustain the momentum of global trade liberalization through further negotiations on specific sectors. The Philippines is strongly committed to the opening up of its economy. In affirming this basic policy of our country, we must ask our economic partners, particularly the developed ones, to desist from circumventing their own commitments to a free international trading regime by providing subsidies to their uncompetitive sectors and by extending them protection in the guise of labour rights or environmental conservation. We must reject this kind of tactic. We must also urge that the subject and object of development — human beings, their welfare and dignity — not be overlooked. We also believe that the status of women is central to both economic growth and human development. The Philippines therefore calls upon all of us to carry out effectively and in full the Platform of Action adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women and to devote adequate resources to make this possible. In accordance with our convictions on the status and rights of women, validated at the Beijing conference, the Philippines has actively pressed for international action to combat those scourges that plague the human race: violence against women and trafficking in women and children. Because of the international dimension of these blights on the human condition, the United Nations and the international community must keep them high on the international agenda until the human race is freed of them. The Philippines and other countries similarly situated have a special concern for women migrant workers because of their peculiar vulnerability to violence and abuse. The Philippines’ stand on the rights of women and children rests on our people’s deep conviction of the inherent sacredness of the rights of all human persons, families and communities everywhere on this planet — their rights to freedom, dignity, participation in their own governance and to development. Our lives, our well-being and our rights are constantly threatened by the activities of transnational criminal gangs. Some of these gangs traffic in drugs. Some steal and smuggle cars. Some deal in the illicit buying and selling of arms. Others engage in terror for a variety of causes. Still others traffic in women, children, or people eager for work. The Philippines is prepared to consider the draft convention proposed by Poland on measures to combat organized crime. We commend Poland for this timely initiative. The United Nations is the keystone of mankind’s efforts on behalf of disarmament, the rule of law in the world’s oceans, the preservation of the Earth and its environment, economic and social development, the fight against organized crime, and the protection of human rights. Because of its central and growing importance in human affairs, the Philippines firmly believes that the United Nations must be constantly renewed and invigorated to enable it to respond to the challenges that face each generation. The Philippines favours the enlargement of the Security Council’s permanent membership through the addition of countries that are politically and economically able and willing to assume the responsibilities of such membership. At the same time, we believe in greater representation on the basis of equitable geographical distribution. The various innovative proposals now on the table deserve close examination. But the issue of membership cannot be considered in isolation; it has to be addressed in the context of reform of the Security Council — reform towards greater transparency and democracy of its working methods and reform towards a more balanced relationship with the General Assembly, 4 which must retain pre-eminence in the affairs of the United Nations. However, no structural changes in the United Nations will be effective unless it is assured of the necessary flow of financial resources. Our Organization, no matter how much reform takes place, can function effectively only if it knows with reasonable certainty whether and when it can pay its staff and meet the other obligations arising from operations that, after all, are mandated, often unanimously, by the Member States themselves. Simple mathematical calculations will demonstrate that the financial crisis of the United Nations cannot be eased unless we all comply with the financial obligations that we freely undertook. We must pay our dues in full, on time and without conditions. Specifically, the United Nations can rest on fairly stable financial foundations if all of us pay our contributions to the regular budget for each year by the end of January of that year. The Philippines favours a revision of the scale of assessments for United Nations contributions so as to reflect current political and economic circumstances. However, logic and consistency dictate that similar adjustments be made in the shares of the countries affected in the capitalization of the international financial institutions, including the World Bank and regional development banks such as the Asian Development Bank. The world’s peace, stability and progress, and the welfare and dignity of its inhabitants, depend in large measure on the United Nations — not on the Secretary- General or the Secretariat alone. Although their role is crucial, they depend above all on us, the Member States, which, together with our peoples, make up the United Nations. We are the United Nations. Let us make it work. ﻿Allow me at the outset to express to Mr. Razali Ismail our sincere congratulations on his election as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. His rich experience, wisdom and knowledge will definitely lead to the success of our deliberations, which are taking place in very delicate international circumstances. I assure him of 15 the full support and assistance of my delegation in discharging his task successfully. Allow me also to take this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation to the outgoing President, Mr. Freitas do Amaral, for his successful efforts in leading the work of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. The international community had keenly hoped that the post-cold-war era would result in an end to the tensions that had characterized the international scene and to the arms race and armed conflicts. All nations, particularly those in the developing world, have aspirations to build a new world order whose cornerstone would be equality among States, non-interference in their internal affairs, transparency and respect for ideological, cultural and religious diversity. Any observer of today’s international scene would conclude that events are completely contrary to expectations. Tensions have escalated, and political, military and economic threats are on the increase. Apparently, equality among States of sovereignty, rights and obligations no longer exists. Moreover, the nuclear threat still lingers on, military conflicts have not ceased and ideological fanaticism and cultural hegemony have become the major features of the new world order. The Sudan is of the view that the structure of the international community, which is based on ideological, political and cultural diversity and pluralism, prompts us all to accept peaceful coexistence and dictates that harmony and diversity among nations become the vehicle for interaction and dialogue within the framework of pursuing national interests in the context of the international system. The nations of the world expect the United Nations to be a forum in which they can express their views and positions and an instrument for the continued pursuit of humanity’s aspirations to freedom, prosperity, peace and security. It is against that background that the call has sounded for the reform of the United Nations system. True and sincere adherence to the spirit and letter of the Charter of the United Nations, equality, respect for the sovereignty of Member States, non-interference in their internal affairs and respect for their right to choose are the bases for strengthening the United Nations and fostering its role, transparency and democratization, so that it may meet the enormous challenges of maintaining international peace and security and serving economic and social development. I should like to point out that my country has followed with satisfaction the positive reforms that have been undertaken by the Secretary-General. The Sudan supports the position expressed by both the League of Arab States and the Organization of African Unity endorsing the re-election of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali for a second term. The Sudan also welcomes General Assembly resolution 50/227 on the restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields. On the other hand, it is imperative that a thorough review of the Security Council take place to ensure its democratization and to allow for equitable representation by the developing countries, including permanent membership. There is a strong need to review the work and procedures of the Security Council in order to achieve transparency and to enable all States to follow the formal and informal meetings of the Council. It is equally vital that the decision-making mechanism be corrected by establishing just criteria to guide its policies and distance it from selectivity and double standards. In this context, the veto concept must be reviewed and corrected so that the principle of equality among Member States stipulated in the Charter of the United Nations may become a reality. Finally, the Security Council should discharge its political responsibilities without addressing legal issues, which fall within the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, as stipulated in the Charter and the Statute of the Court. The Court must be enhanced to enable it to shoulder its responsibilities in handling legal disputes among Member States. In this connection, it is important to note the new trend towards the imposition of sanctions against some countries as a means of settling certain disputes, as has been witnessed recently. Such sanctions have adversely affected the people of those countries, particularly the vulnerable sectors of society, namely, women, children and the elderly, the very sectors that the United Nations has pledged to protect and develop. It is therefore necessary to reconsider the basis on which sanctions are imposed, the duration of such sanctions and the lifting of them when the requirements have been met or when their implications give rise to human suffering. The ideal means for settling most recent conflicts is through strict compliance with the provisions for conflict resolution as stipulated in the Charter, the consolidation of cooperation among States, the encouragement of 16 dialogue and the fostering of international public opinion through common understanding. Therefore, my country welcomes the endeavours designed to enhance preventive diplomacy and its mechanisms in order to achieve these goals. I wish now to touch upon some important international issues. We look forward to the success of the ongoing efforts of the countries of West Africa, under the leadership of our sister country, Nigeria, to ensure that the people of Liberia are able to achieve stability. We also hope that the efforts to end the conflict in Angola will stop the bloodshed and steer the country towards development. We also call on the people of our sister country, Somalia, and the factions there, to rise above their differences in order to preserve independence and unity and resume their march towards prosperity and progress. We also hope that Rwanda and Burundi will achieve stability, and that they will use diversity as an element of unity and strength. We call for the enhancement and support of the role of the Organization of African Unity in its efforts towards settlement of these conflicts. Africa, as the continent of the future, needs the support of the international community so that it can achieve political stability and economic development, and contribute to establishing a more just and stable international community. As for the sanctions imposed on the Libyan people, we fully support the Libyan initiatives, which are also supported by the League of Arab States and the Organization of African Unity, to put an end to the conflict between Libya and three Western countries. My country appeals to the international community to exert greater efforts to reach a final settlement to this dispute and to alleviate the suffering of the Libyan people by ending the embargo to which they are subjected. As for the Middle East, Sudan believes that peace should be built on the principles of justice and respect for the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people and the Arab peoples in the region, and that peace must also be based on the commitments agreed to by the parties concerned. Any retreat from agreed obligations and commitments contradicts a real desire to achieve peace. The irresponsible practices of the occupying Power will have serious repercussions for the peoples and countries of the region, and will have a negative effect on international peace and security. Therefore, Sudan calls for the immediate implementation of all relevant Security Council resolutions in order to achieve a just and comprehensive peace on all tracks of the process. We draw the attention of the international community to the precarious situation in the region, the consequences of continued failure and the increasing possibilities of confrontation, which make it necessary for the international community to be vigilant, dynamic and strict in implementing justice and the rule of law so as to save the region from the potential scourge of war. With regard to the Gulf region, we look forward to the restoration of the peace and security that it enjoyed before to the war. The Sudan would like to reiterate the importance of compliance with Security Council resolutions regarding the sovereignty and legitimate rights to existence of Kuwait, and the rights of its people and leadership with regard to security and stability. Similarly, we reiterate the right of Iraq to sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence. We call upon the international community to lift the sanctions imposed on Iraq, which are causing suffering and starvation for the Iraqi people, and, in this respect, we call for the implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995). With regard to Europe, my country expresses its satisfaction with the signing of the Dayton Agreement, aimed at ending the suffering of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For several years their suffering caused anguish in the conscience of the international community. We also express our heartfelt congratulations to President Alija Izetbegovic´ for gaining the people’s confidence in his leadership. We call upon the United Nations to work for the full implementation of the Dayton Agreement, in particular the prosecution of Serb leaders responsible for the crimes of genocide, “ethnic cleansing” and other violations of international law. We also call on the international community to provide the necessary assistance and resources for the reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With regard to Asia, we express our satisfaction with the agreement reached between the Government of the Philippines and the Moro National Liberation Front, which reflects the wisdom of both parties. In this context, we commend the efforts of President Soeharto of Indonesia and his Foreign Minister, which culminated in the agreement. Social and economic development is the primary requisite for political stability to deter the scourge of wars and conflicts. In this respect we express the deep concern of Africa, which calls for justice, an end to its marginalization, and compensation for all the injustices 17 inflicted on it during the colonial era and for the inequities of the international economic order. The majority of the least developed countries are in Africa, and they need support and assistance. The debts of African countries, which exceed $300 billion, have become the main impediment to the ambitions of the continent to achieve development and to ensure the prosperity of its peoples. In most African countries debt-servicing costs exceed the gross national product and total export earnings. The African countries have welcomed the World Bank initiative to reduce the debt burden of the least developed countries. Sudan believes that the effective solution of the debt crisis requires agreement on a unified strategy, with the aim of cancelling or reducing debts for all those countries, without exception. We also call on the international community to provide the necessary financial support for the Secretary-General’s Initiative for development in Africa. The mid-term reviews of the Paris Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s and of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s have shown that pledges should be followed by action, not by more promises. In the field of food security and the prevention of famine, which are issues of primary concern to Africa and the rest of the world, my country places high hopes on the forthcoming World Food Summit, which will take place at Rome in November 1996, which will seek solutions for the problem of food security throughout the world. Sudan, which is perceived to be one of the countries with the potential to play a considerable role in the production of food, is ready to shoulder its responsibility, together with a serious contribution from the international community towards that end. Human rights issues have priority on the agenda of the United Nations. They receive the full support of my country, based on our conviction that human beings are the only creatures that have been honoured and given responsibility by Almighty God, and on our commitment to human rights covenants. However, we disagree with the growing tendency to exploit human rights issues to serve the political interests of certain circles, in a manner that jeopardizes the principles of human rights. Selectivity does not serve the cause of human rights as well as objectivity and comprehensiveness; confrontation and condemnation do not support human rights as well as cooperation, conviction and encouragement. In line with this understanding, my country has established the Advisory Council for Human Rights, to protect human rights and investigate all accusations and complaints in this regard. The Sudan also resumed its cooperation with the Special Rapporteur on human rights after the causes of our withdrawal of cooperation had been removed. We reiterate here our commitment to cooperation on this matter, in accordance with the principles of objectivity, transparency and respect for cultural diversity and pluralism. This last principle prompts me to refer to the attack on Islam, which portrays it as barbaric and links it to terrorism. These malicious allegations are unjust; Islam is completely innocent. They contravene the principle of respect for all religions without exception. Wrong practices do not constitute evidence to justify negative judgements on the religious beliefs of those who perpetrate them. Such trends make all religions and philosophies susceptible to condemnation, regardless of their sources or origins. Islam is the religion of tolerance and coexistence. We therefore call upon the international community to stop this ferocious campaign targeting Islam, and call upon the United Nations to distance itself from it. We hope that the positive positions of a number of Western leaders towards Islam will be echoed by the communities in the West, their mass media and their justice systems. I deem it necessary, in addressing the Assembly, to shed light on some important political developments in my country. I hope members will listen attentively to what I am about to say and will open their hearts while I touch on the circumstances that surrounded the adoption of Security Council resolutions 1044 (1996), 1054 (1996) and 1070 (1996), respectively, against my country. First, it has been proven that 11 Egyptians were the organizers and perpetrators of the attempt that was the subject of these resolutions. Second, prior to the incident the suspects had been moving in a number of Arab, African and Asian countries. The Sudan was but one of these countries. Third, the Security Council has based its resolutions on the statement of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution, which called upon the Sudan to look for, locate and extradite the suspects if — and I underline 18 if — they were found in the Sudan. This was stipulated in the Mechanism’s decision of 19 December 1995. Fourth, those resolutions were based on the assumption that the three suspects, who are Egyptians, were in the Sudan at the time the other members of the group entered Addis Ababa from other countries, several months before the incident. Fifth — and this I would underline — no evidence was produced to prove that the suspects were in the Sudan at the time the incident took place or at the time the Sudan was asked to hand over the suspects, which request was received more than a month after the incident. Sixth, a secret trial was conducted for the three suspects, who were sentenced to death. Concerned States and observers were never allowed to witness the trial. Seventh, the Sudan has unequivocally condemned this incident since day one, and it has expressed its readiness to cooperate with the concerned parties. Eighth, the Sudan received the first request to arrest the suspects 32 days after the incident. The request did not provide sufficient information about the suspects. Ninth, the competent Sudanese authorities conducted exhaustive and complete investigations, but these did not yield any information or prove the presence of the suspects on Sudanese territory. Tenth, though the Sudan has time and again requested the cooperation of concerned countries and of the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) in this regard, its efforts have been in vain. Eleventh, it has been proven that the first suspect is in Afghanistan. An official document confirming that fact was submitted to the Security Council by the Afghan Government. Moreover, in statements to the press, the first suspect claimed full responsibility for the incident and confirmed that he has not entered the Sudan since 1994. Twelfth, the Sudan reiterates its full readiness to cooperate with all parties concerned, and it emphasizes that all available evidence indicates that the suspects are not present on Sudanese territory. To insist on imposing sanctions on the Sudan defies logic and justice. This must be reconsidered in order to redress the injustice inflicted on my country and to alleviate the negative impact of this recurrent series of sanctions, which could cause massive human suffering to innocent people. As we stated before the Assembly last year, we reiterate our condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We reaffirm our readiness to cooperate and to participate effectively in efforts to combat terrorism. We are actively involved in this matter at regional levels, in particular within the framework of the League of Arab States. We reiterate our commitment to contribute to the establishment of more secure, stable and just international relations. The Sudan has witnessed a number of internal political developments this year. Parliamentary elections were held, followed by a presidential election by direct balloting. All Sudanese citizens exercised their democratic right in a free and fair election monitored by representatives of friendly countries and international and regional bodies. The genuine efforts my Government has exerted tirelessly in recent years have culminated in the signing of a political charter between the Government and two important rebel factions. In response to the signing of the political charter, other rebel factions joined the peace process, most recently the SPLA, the Popular Movement for Peace and the Popular Movement for the Liberation of the Sudan. While our charter affirms that shariah and are the main sources of legislation in the country, it allows States to promulgate complementary legislation compatible with their needs. We in the Sudan recognize cultural diversity. In accordance with our charter, freedom of religious belief and the prohibition of forceful conversion to any religion or faith are fully granted. We also recognize pluralism. Accordingly, we guarantee the right to religion and belief. No one can be forced to accept any religious belief. The Charter ensures the fair distribution of resources and power-sharing among citizens. It also calls for the establishment of a coordination council for the southern states in order to contribute to the implementation of the provisions stipulating the holding of a comprehensive referendum among the citizens of southern Sudan after an interim period, the length of which has yet to be negotiated. 19 Relentless efforts are being made in order to reach a settlement with the faction that has thus far remained outside of the peace process. Consultations and coordination are currently under way with the concerned parties, in particular with the countries of the region represented in the Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD). The Sudan welcomes and appreciates the contribution by friendly countries towards our sincere and genuine search for lasting peace in our country. I am pleased to inform members of the Khartoum agreement, signed between the Sudan and Uganda through the kind and much appreciated mediation of the Islamic Republic of Iran. This agreement was further strengthened by the conclusion in Tehran last week of an agreement on a verification mechanism for the implementation of the agreement, with the participation of Iran and Malawi. At this juncture, as I speak of Sudan’s greatest and most urgent priority — peace — I wish to pay tribute to the intensive intellectual efforts being exerted by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), within its specific mandate in the United Nations system and by all ways and means available to it, to establish a culture of peace. This is based on the construction in the minds of men in defence of peace, as stipulated in the preamble of UNESCO’s statute. My Government has fully cooperated with UNESCO in the promotion of the noble objectives of this programme. We did so notably through our contribution to the 1995 Barcelona conference and to the follow-up seminar in the Netherlands in May 1996. We sincerely hope that such dialogue will continue, with a view to creating an environment conducive to achieving a comprehensive peace. For more than three decades, my country has hosted over a million refugees from neighbouring countries as a result of the unstable security situation in those countries. We have provided them security and stability as well as educational, health and other essential services. In the framework of solving the refugee problem through voluntary repatriation, the Sudan has cooperated with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and other concerned countries, and has signed tripartite agreements for the repatriation of the refugees from some of those countries. We hope to reach similar agreements concerning the rest of the refugees, thus guaranteeing their repatriation in dignity. We call upon the international community to share this burden with the Government of the Sudan. As the Sudan is experiencing severe economic difficulties, the resources allocated to refugee programmes have diminished considerably. This has resulted in severe pressures on Sudan’s public sector, since the refugees share food and services with Sudanese citizens. Aware of its responsibilities towards its people, the Sudan has sought to deliver food and other relief assistance to its war-affected populations throughout the country, including in areas controlled by the rebels. Based on this understanding, the Sudan initiated the idea of Operation Lifeline Sudan (OLS) and has consistently urged its implementation in cooperation with the United Nations. A number of General Assembly resolutions have commended the full cooperation between the Sudan and the United Nations in this Operation. The practical implementation of OLS has yielded a number of important observations, which we will submit to the review meeting scheduled this month in the hope of an adequate response. We urge and hope that the next phase of OLS will see a fairer distribution of relief supplies and that it will contribute further towards the development and rehabilitation process, thus promoting an environment conducive to peace and stability. In spite of these observations, I should like to express the full commitment of the Government of the Sudan to cooperation with the United Nations in the implementation of the objectives of Operation Lifeline Sudan in accordance with the principles of neutrality, transparency and respect for the sovereignty of my country. As mankind approaches the dawn of the new century, we hope that the United Nations will be its vehicle and bridge to a world in which hope, peace and justice will prevail. Let us unite our wills and harmonize our ideals towards the achievement of this noble objective.  ﻿Three years ago I had the honour of being the first American President born after the founding of the United Nations to address the General Assembly. In its fifty-first year, the United Nations has not yet realized all its founders’ aspirations. But the ideals of the United Nations Charter — peace, freedom, tolerance and prosperity — now touch more people in more nations than ever before. Now we find ourselves at a turning point in history when the blocs and barriers that long defined the world are giving way to an age of remarkable possibility — a time when more of our children and more nations will be able to live out their dreams than ever before. But this is also an age of new threats — threats from terrorists, from rogue States that support them, threats from ethnic, religious, racial and tribal hatreds, threats from international criminals and drug traffickers — all of whom will be more dangerous if they gain access to weapons of mass destruction. The challenge before us, plainly, is twofold: to seize the new opportunities for more people to enjoy peace and freedom, security and prosperity and to move strongly and swiftly against the dangers that change has produced. This week and in this place, we take a giant step forward. By overwhelming global consensus, we will make a solemn commitment to end all nuclear tests for all time. Before entering this Hall, I had the great honour to be the first leader to sign the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). I did so, with some pride, with this pen, for this pen is the very one that President Kennedy used to help bring the limited test-ban Treaty to life 33 years ago. This Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty will help prevent the nuclear Powers from developing more advanced and more dangerous weapons. It will limit the ability of other States to acquire such devices themselves. It points us towards a century in which the roles and risks of nuclear weapons can be further reduced and ultimately eliminated. I want to thank all those who helped bring us to this day, especially the Chairman of the comprehensive test- ban negotiating Committee, Netherlands Ambassador Ramaker, and the Government of Australia, which took the lead at the United Nations. I thank the Secretary-General for the remarks he made this morning in establishing the criteria and standards in support of the United Nations as the depository of the Treaty. The signatures of the world’s declared nuclear Powers — the United States, China, France, Russia and the United Kingdom — along with those of the vast majority of its nations, will immediately create an international norm against nuclear testing even before the Treaty formally enters into force. The CTBT is the shared work of hard negotiation. Some have complained that it does not mandate total nuclear disarmament by a date certain. I would say to them: “Do not forsake the benefits of this achievement by ignoring the tremendous progress we have already made towards that goal.” Today there are no Russian missiles pointed at America and no American missiles pointed at Russia. Through the START Treaties we are cutting our nuclear arsenals by two thirds. Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakstan are giving up the nuclear weapons left on their land after the Soviet Union dissolved. We are working with the newly independent States to improve security at nuclear facilities and to convert nuclear weapons to peaceful uses. The United States and other nuclear-weapon States have embraced the South Pacific and African nuclear-free zones. Now half the world’s land area is nuclear free by international agreement. And the world community extended indefinitely the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Yet some of the very changes that had made this progress possible have also created new risks. The breakup of the Soviet Union left nuclear materials dispersed throughout the newly independent States. As barriers have come down around the world the danger of nuclear smuggling has gone up. So even as we reduce the global stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction, we must also reduce the danger that lethal materials could wind up in the wrong hands, while developing effective defences for our people if that should happen. The United States has six priority goals to further lift the threat of nuclear weapons destruction and the threat of weapons of mass destruction, and to limit their dangerous spread. First, we must protect our people from chemical attack and make it harder for rogue States and terrorists to brandish poison gas by bringing the chemical weapons Convention into force as soon as possible. I thank the nations here that have ratified the chemical weapons Convention. I deeply regret that the United States Senate has not yet voted on the Convention, but I want to assure you and people throughout the world that I will not let this treaty die, and we will join the ranks of nation determined to prevent the spread of chemical weapons. Secondly, we must reduce the risk that an outlaw State or organization could build a nuclear device by negotiating a treaty to freeze the production of fissile materials for use in nuclear weapons. The Conference on Disarmament should take up this challenge immediately. The United States, Russia, France and the United Kingdom already have halted production of fissile materials for weapons. I urge other nations to end the unsafeguarded production of these materials pending completion of the treaty. Thirdly, we must continue to reduce our nuclear arsenals. When Russia ratifies START II, President Yeltsin and I are all ready to discuss the possibilities of further cuts, as well as limiting and monitoring nuclear warheads and materials. This will help make deep reductions irreversible. Fourthly, we must reinforce our efforts against the spread of nuclear weapons by strengthening the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). We should give the International Atomic Energy Agency a stronger role and sharper tools for conducting worldwide inspections. Our law enforcement and customs officials should cooperate more in the fight against nuclear smuggling. And I urge all nations that have not signed the NPT to do so without delay. Fifthly, we must better protect our people from those who would use disease as a weapon of war, by giving the biological weapons Convention the means to strengthen compliance, including on-site investigations when we believe such weapons may have been used or when suspicious outbreaks of disease occur. We should aim to complete this task by 1998. 2 Finally, we must end the carnage caused by anti-personnel landmines, the hidden killers that murder and maim more than 25,000 people a year. In May, I announced a series of actions the United States would take towards this goal. Today, I renew my appeal for the swift negotiation of a worldwide ban on the use, stockpiling, production, and transfer of anti-personnel landmines. Our children deserve to walk the Earth in safety. Thirty-three years ago, at the height of the cold war, President Kennedy spoke at American University in Washington. Peace was the topic of his address, but not an abstract ideal of peace. Instead, he urged us to focus on “a more practical, attainable peace — based not on a sudden revolution in human nature but on a gradual evolution in human institutions — on a series of concrete actions and effective agreements which are in the interests of all concerned.” It was in that same speech that he announced that talks would shortly begin in Moscow on a comprehensive test- ban treaty. President Kennedy’s vision exceeded the possibilities of his time, but his words speak to us still. As we sign our names to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty — the longest-sought, hardest-fought prize in arms control history — let us summon the confidence of earlier pioneers and set our sights on the challenges of the new century. Over the past three years we have moved in the right direction in meeting those challenges. In Bosnia, where the war is over and where just 10 days ago its people went to the polls in peace, we have moved in the right direction. Now we must help Bosnia build a unified, democratic, and peaceful future. In Haiti, where the dictators are gone, democracy is back and the exodus of refugees has ended, we have move in the right direction. Now we must help the Haitian people seize the full benefits of freedom and forge a more prosperous future. In the Middle East and in Northern Ireland, there is progress towards lasting peace, and we are moving in the right direction. Now we must support continued progress between Israel and Palestinians, and we must broaden the circle of peace to include more of Israel’s neighbours. We must help to give the children of Belfast the chance to live out normal lives. In the fact that democracy, open markets and peace are taking hold around the world, we are moving in the right direction. Here in the Americas, every nation but one has raised freedom’s flag. In Central Europe, in Russia, Ukraine and the other new independent States, the forces of reform have earned all our respect and will continue to have the support of the United States. Now we must begin to welcome Europe’s new democracies into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), strengthen NATO’s partnership with Russia and build a secure and undivided Europe. In Asia, South Korea, Japan, China and America working together persuaded North Korea to freeze its nuclear programme under international monitoring. Now, in the wake of provocative actions by North Korea, we must pursue a permanent peace for all the Korean people. Our planet is safer because of our common efforts to close Chernobyl, to address the challenges of climate change, to protect the world’s forests and oceans. Now we must uphold our duty as custodians of our environment so that our children will inherit an even healthier planet. All of us must continue our historic efforts to build a better, more global trading system for the twenty-first century. We have made remarkable progress, but there is more to do in opening markets, in creating millions of new jobs for all our people. In this time of challenge and change, the United Nations is more important than ever before, because our world is more interdependent than ever before. Most Americans know this. Unfortunately, some Americans, in their longing to be free of the world’s problems, and perhaps to focus more on our own problems, ignore what the United Nations has done, ignore the benefits of cooperation. They ignore our own interdependence with all of you in charting a better future. They ignore all that the United Nations is doing to lift the lives of millions by preserving the peace, vaccinating children, caring for refugees, sharing the blessings of progress around the world. They have made it difficult for the United States to meet its obligations to the United Nations. But let me reassure all of you: the vast majority of Americans support the United Nations, not only because it reflects our own ideals, but because it reinforces our interests. We must continue to work to manifest the support that our people feel. For the fifty-first year in a row, the United States will be the largest financial contributor to the United Nations. We are paying our dues, and I am committed to paying off our accumulated obligations. However, we also support the process of reform, which has done great work in reforming and streamlining the 3 bureaucracy and reining in the budget, and it should continue. We also believe that all of us — the nations of the world working together — must do more to fight terrorism. Last year I asked the nations assembled here to commit to a goal of zero tolerance for aggression, terrorism and lawless behaviour. Frankly, we have not done that yet. Real zero tolerance means giving no aid and no quarter to terrorists who slaughter the innocent and drug traffickers who poison our children, and doing everything we can to prevent weapons of mass destruction from falling into the wrong hands. Real zero tolerance requires us to isolate States that refuse to play by the rules we have all accepted for civilized behaviour. As long as Iraq threatens its neighbours and its people, as long as Iran supports and protects terrorists, as long as Libya refuses to give up the people who blew up Pan Am 103, they should not become full members of the family of nations. The United States is pursuing a three-part strategy against terrorists: abroad, by working more closely than ever with like-minded nations; at home by giving our law enforcement the toughest counter-terrorism tools available, and by doing all we can to make our airports and the aeroplanes that link us all together even safer. I have requested more than $1 billion from our Congress to meet these commitments, and we are implementing the United States Vice President's aviation security plan to make those travelling to, from and within the United States more secure. There are other steps we must take together. Last year, I urged that together we crack down on money laundering and front companies, shut down gray markets for guns, explosives and false documents, open more law enforcement centres around the world and strengthen safeguards on lethal materials. In each of these areas we have made progress, through the United Nations, at the Summit of Peacemakers in Sharm el-Sheikh, at the Paris terrorism conference and individually. Now we should adopt the declaration on crime and public security I proposed last year. It includes a no- sanctuary pledge, so that we can say with one voice to the terrorists, criminals and drug traffickers: “You have no place to run, no place to hide.” I call on every Member to ratify 11 international conventions that would help prevent and punish terrorism and to criminalize the use of explosives in terrorist attacks. To every nation whose children fall prey to drugs and every nation that makes those drugs: we must do more to reduce demand and to take illegal drugs off the market and off the streets. The United States will do its part. Next week, I will target more than $100-million worth of defence equipment, services and training to Mexico, Colombia and other South American and Caribbean countries. These resources will help our friends stop the flow of drugs at the source. Now I ask every nation that exports the chemicals needed to make illicit drugs to create an informal group whose members will work to deny these chemicals to drug producers. We must not let more drugs darken the dawn of the next century. Our duty to fight all these forces of destruction is directly linked to our efforts to reduce the threat of weapons of mass destruction. We all know we are not immune from this. We saw it when our friends in Japan were subject to the murderous power of a small vial of sarin gas unleashed in the Tokyo subway. We know a small lump of plutonium is enough to build a nuclear bomb. We know that more dangerous people have access to materials of mass destruction because of the rapid movement and open borders of this age. The quest to eliminate these problems from the world’s arsenals and to stop them from spreading has taken on a new and powerful urgency for all of us. So let us strengthen our determination to fight the rogue States, the terrorists and the criminals who menace our safety, our way of life and the potential of our children in the twenty-first century. Let us recommit ourselves to prevent them from acquiring weapons of mass destruction. Let us work harder than ever to lift the nuclear backdrop that has darkened the world’s stage for too long now. Let us make these solemn tasks our common obligation, our common commitment; if we do, then together we will enter the twenty-first century marching towards a better, safer world — the very better, safer world the United Nations has sought to build for 51 years.  ﻿I would like to begin by extending to you, Sir, my warmest congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly. We are certain that your long experience, outstanding ability and diplomatic skill will guide us successfully in our work at this fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Allow me also to thank your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his untiring efforts during the previous session. At last year’s session, which marked the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we reflected on the birth of the United Nations, assessed its development and influence on international relations to date, paid tribute to its achievements and identified some of its difficulties. At the same time, we acknowledged that our main responsibility for the future of the Organization is to insure that it has the ability to address most effectively the agenda of the twenty-first century. In the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, we agreed that “In order to be able to respond effectively to the challenges of the future and the expectations of the United Nations held by peoples around the world, it is essential that the United Nations itself be reformed and modernized.” (resolution 50/6, para. 14) Now, as we begin the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, we should take stock of what we have been able to accomplish and redirect our efforts to what remains to be achieved. In 1996, we have continued our work towards the institutional and financial reforms needed to make the United Nations a more productive and dynamic institution so that it will be better able to perform its key functions and fulfil its mandates more effectively. In this regard, the fundamental priority must be to ensure that the financing of our Organization is placed on a firm and lasting base. May I recall in this context that the Government of the Republic of Cyprus is voluntarily contributing one third of the total cost of the United Nations Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus and, in addition, has increased by one third its contribution to United Nations peace-keeping operations in general. During 1996, various high-level working groups of the General Assembly have continued their efforts on the institutional and financial reforms of the United Nations. I would like to reiterate that we consider the work of these working groups, covering a very broad spectrum of issues, to be extremely important. Such issues, ranging from the strengthening of the main United Nations organs to the further development of an Agenda for Peace and an Agenda for Development, deserve deep and profound priority consideration. We subscribe to the need to reform the Security Council, to expand it and strengthen its capacity to discharge the duties assigned to it by the Charter for the maintenance of international peace and security. As for the reform of its working methods, we recognize, that although significant efforts have been made over the past two years to ensure greater transparency and broader consultations with non-members, more remains to be done. A good precedent has been established with the holding of briefings and regular consultations, including those with countries that contribute troops to United Nations peacekeeping operations. The reports of the working groups of the General Assembly and the proposals from Member States that we have before us provide a good basis for further work. We all understand and accept the need to reform and revitalize our Organization. Our responsibility, then, is quite clear: Let us make even more vigorous efforts and display the courage and political will required to reach a successful conclusion on these issues. This year’s international conferences — HABITAT II, the World Food Summit and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development — have marked the completion of a comprehensive series of United Nations-sponsored conferences which covered the full range of civil, political, economic and social issues that affect the peoples of the world. We attach great importance to the successful follow-up to United Nations-sponsored conferences and their impact on those areas of the world where the lack of economic and social development often contributes to conflict. In this respect, we welcome next year’s General Assembly special session, which will be devoted to the assessment and review of Agenda 21 and of the results of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. It will be a unique opportunity to take stock of what we have done so far to implement the recommendations agreed upon in that all-important Conference. An area of particular concern in today’s world is the persistent violation of human rights. The human rights agenda has for many years been dominated by efforts to establish international standards. Our duty must be to implement these standards unequivocally and to take a firm stand against all forms of human rights violations in all cases. The full implementation of the commitments entered into will encourage those around the world who believe in the promise of the United Nations to help restore and keep the peace, to promote respect for human rights, to expand and broaden social progress, and to help those in urgent need. My country is fully committed to the universal application and promotion of these principles. Another area of particular concern to Member States is arms control and disarmament. Under the auspices of the United Nations, the nuclear non-proliferation regime has been further strengthened by the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We warmly welcome the adoption by the General Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty. This represents the international community’s determination to bring to completion one of the most sought-after nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament measures in the history of the United Nations. But the Treaty is not the end of the process. There is need for further systematic and progressive effort in order to achieve our ultimate goal of the elimination of nuclear weapons and of general and complete disarmament under strict and effective international control. Another important development in the field of disarmament and arms control is progress achieved towards the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention. Cyprus is in the final stages of ratifying this Convention. It is our hope that it will soon enter into force. While recognizing that much more needs to be done in the realm of conventional weapons, we are encouraged by the progress made during the review of the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or To Have Indiscriminate Effects and the agreement on Guidelines for international arms transfers at this year’s United Nations Disarmament Commission’s session. We fully share the view espoused by many that arms control and disarmament are and will continue to be 2 essential components of international security, contributing to confidence-building and conflict resolution. It is in this spirit that we proposed, as part of a comprehensive solution to the Cyprus problem, the complete demilitarization of the Republic of Cyprus, in which we have offered to disband the National Guard of Cyprus and hand over all weapons to an international force in exchange for the complete withdrawal of all foreign troops, as demanded by the relevant United Nations resolutions. This body is familiar with the Secretary-General’s report which characterizes the northern occupied part of Cyprus as one of the most densely militarized areas in the world. The presence of 35,000 Turkish troops and hundreds of tanks and other armaments constitutes a clear and present danger to peace and security in Cyprus and in the region. Recent events in Cyprus have highlighted this clear danger as well as the urgent need to implement our demilitarization proposal. This year’s twenty-second anniversary of the invasion and occupation of substantial territory of the Republic of Cyprus by Turkish forces was marked by the brutal killings of two Greek-Cypriot unarmed demonstrators, witnessed on television screens by the entire world, and the wounding of many others, including two United Nations peace-keepers, by the Turkish occupation troops and Turkish extremists imported from mainland Turkey to the occupied part of the island. Two United Nations reports on these tragic incidents state clearly that the responsibility lies with Turkey and the illegal Turkish-Cypriot regime, which used excessive and unwarranted force against unarmed demonstrators who were simply trying to remind the world that for 22 years Cyprus has remained a divided country whose people are still prevented by the Turkish occupation forces from returning to their homes and lands and from moving freely in their country. Furthermore, it has by now become abundantly clear that the Turkish action was orchestrated well in advance and involved the import from Turkey of 3,000 terrorists belonging to the Gray Wolves organization with the goal of provoking bloody confrontation between Greek and Turkish Cypriots. This sinister plan was aimed at demonstrating that the two communities cannot live peacefully together in Cyprus and therefore separatist and partitionist solutions should be sought. While we mourn and condemn the brutal murder of the two unarmed Greek Cypriot protesters, we also feel sorry for the subsequent killing of a Turkish soldier and the wounding of another. We regret the haste with which the Turkish Cypriot leader, Mr. Denktas¸, attempted to attribute responsibility for this killing to the Greek Cypriot side before an independent United Nations investigation published its findings. The recent tragic events, however, will not cause us to waver from our commitment to seek a peaceful solution of the Cyprus problem through negotiations, as provided by the United Nations resolutions. These events only highlight the need to expedite and increase efforts to find a just, lasting and workable solution to the Cyprus problem. We are encouraged by the rekindled interest and more active engagement of the international community in the Cyprus problem, as witnessed by the appointments of Special Representatives from interested countries, including the appointment of the Secretary-General’s Special Representative, Mr. Han Sung-Joo. We welcome all initiatives set out to reinforce the United Nations in the search for a just and viable solution to the Cyprus question. Various United Nations resolutions, and the United Nations Secretary-General himself, have declared the present status quo in Cyprus unacceptable, a view shared by the international community. The time has come to make a further determined and sustained effort to solve the Cyprus problem. To that end, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus will be working earnestly and imaginatively with the United Nations Special Representative and with all others supporting its efforts to prepare the ground for negotiations on the main outstanding issues. Any settlement of the Cyprus problem should be based on a State of Cyprus with a single sovereignty, an international personality and a single citizenship. Its independence and territorial integrity must be safeguarded, and it must be composed of two politically equal communities, as described in the relevant Security Council resolutions, in a bicommunal and bi-zonal federation. Such settlement must exclude union, in whole or in part, with any other country or any form of partition or secession. The security of both communities is a crucial issue, which would be helpful in finding a solution. It will be necessary to devise effective guarantees; demilitarization and the stationing in Cyprus of an international force will also be required. Demilitarization represents an important contribution to this settlement. We are prepared to embark on face-to-face negotiations in 1997 once the ground has been sufficiently prepared to ensure success. We are not, however, willing, 3 after 22 years of negotiations that have yielded no results on the main issues of the problem, to embark on another round of fruitless talks. On the one hand, they destroy the credibility of the negotiating process, and on the other, they keep the attention of the international community focused on the intercommunal constitutional aspect of the problem, thus overshadowing the real issue — the invasion and continued occupation, for 22 years, of substantial territory of the Republic of Cyprus by the Turkish forces. We, for our part, will continue to do everything in our power to help the Secretary-General of our Organization to succeed in his renewed efforts, through his newly appointed Special Representative, in the search for a lasting solution to the Cyprus problem. At the same time the Government of the Republic of Cyprus will pursue its application for membership in the European Union, because such membership will have benefits for both communities. While we hope to keep accession negotiations to the timetable already foreseen, we earnestly desire to reach a solution to our problem before accession. At the beginning of my statement, I spoke of the need to reform and strengthen our Organization. From this rostrum, I have repeatedly underlined the importance of honouring the commitments we enter into and of implementing the decisions we take. I have stressed how essential it is to uphold the principles of the United Nations Charter and to hold to full account those who violate them. The question of Cyprus continues to be such a case of accountability, due to the refusal of Turkey to implement solemn Security Council and General Assembly resolutions calling for, among other things, the respect of the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and unity of the Republic of Cyprus, the withdrawal of all foreign troops, the return of the refugees to their homes and lands, the respect of the demographic composition of the Republic and the restoration of the basic human rights and fundamental freedoms of the people of Cyprus. In fact, not only has Turkey not implemented these resolutions, but it has grossly violated them. Even the immense humanitarian problem of the missing persons remains unresolved, perpetuating the tragedy of their relatives. All efforts should therefore be exerted by the Security Council, and by all those in a position to do so, to bring about a real change in Turkey’s attitude. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations has highlighted the need to maintain and reinforce our faith and that of future generations in our Organization. Implementation of United Nations decisions will go a long way towards achieving this lofty goal.  ﻿I should like to convey to the President, on behalf of my delegation, my warm congratulations on his election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. We are convinced that his personal qualities, experience and great skill are our best guarantee for the success of this session and will enable us to achieve positive results. I should also like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude and esteem to Mr. Freitas do Amaral, President of the fiftieth session, who so ably guided the work of the Assembly last year. I should also like once again to extend our entire confidence to our brother, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to express to him our thanks for the great efforts he has tirelessly expended since shouldering his heavy responsibilities in strengthening the universality and credibility of the United Nations and enhancing its capacity to play its rightful role, notwithstanding particularly difficult international circumstances. It is gratifying to note that, as the Organization enters into its second 50 years of life, substantial progress is being made on the road to peace throughout the world. Thus, East-West confrontation, more commonly known as the cold war, has ended and the spectre of the balance of terror has disappeared, giving way to dialogue and cooperation in the establishment and maintenance of world peace and security. Other important steps have also been taken towards decolonization, the eradication of racial discrimination and the full exercise by peoples of their right to self-determination. We must, however, note that these achievements, valuable as they are, have not contributed significantly to improving the situation in many parts of the world where, in some countries, there are still hotbeds of tension and bloody wars. Nor have they sufficed to eliminate the poverty and underdevelopment that are still the daily lot of a large proportion of the inhabitants of our planet. Thus, developing countries continue to suffer the combined effects of the world economic crisis and the ongoing deterioration of terms of trade and to bear the burden of an external debt that exhausts their resources at the very time that official development assistance is constantly decreasing. The past year has seen no important improvement in the world economic situation. That conclusion is unavoidable, since the current economic crisis has as its basis the inequity inherent in the world economy, an inequity whose major consequences are macroeconomic imbalance, unfair terms of trade and inequality in the distribution of wealth. In this framework, the African continent is obviously the hardest hit by the negative effects of the deterioration in economic conditions owing to the burden of its external debt and the fall in the prices of the raw 12 materials that make up the principal source of income for most African countries. The Sahel region is among those on our continent that is suffering the most from this situation, especially given the chronic drought from which it has suffered for over three decades and that has weakened and sometimes destroyed the economies of its component countries. However, we are gratified by the increased interest shown in recent years with regard to African development and we welcome the System-wide Special Initiative for Africa launched by the Secretary-General, which we would like to see implemented as soon as possible. The consolidation of democracy and the construction of a State based on the rule of law and respect for human rights are positive results of the activities of the international community, as reflected in the resolutions of the United Nations and its specialized agencies as well as in the decisions and recommendations handed down by several conferences organized under United Nations auspices or with its support. This confirms the importance of the collective effort of the United Nations and should encourage the Organization to continue its pursuit of the noble objectives of mankind. In that connection, and in order to enable the United Nations to strengthen such action, it is particularly urgent and essential to work on the restructuring of its organs, the rationalization of its working methods and the improvement in its performance. To that end, my country supports the proposals designed to give renewed dynamism to the Economic and Social Council, to end duplication in its subsidiary bodies and to improve its rules of operation. We also support proposals aimed at enlarging representation in the Security Council in keeping with the requirements of democracy, transparency and equity. We also believe that the principle of equality among Member States should be the basis for any action undertaken to restructure the Security Council, which, according to Article 24 of the United Nations Charter, acts on behalf of all Member States. This means that the Council has an obligation to reflect the universal character of the United Nations. Allow me to say a word about the democratic process in Mauritania, the first phase of which began 10 years ago in 1986 with the first local elections and was followed by the adoption of the 1991 Constitution. Pluralistic, multi- party presidential and parliamentary elections followed in 1992 and the second round of local elections in 1994. This process is being strengthened once again by the holding on 11 October of the second round of legislative elections in a free and transparent climate. Two hundred and sixty-nine candidates, most from 13 political parties, will appeal to the voters for the 79 seats of the National Assembly. All provisions have been made to ensure that this election takes place under the best conditions. With this new achievement, the Mauritanian people will confirm that it has become, as stated by His Excellency President Maaouya Ould Sid’Ahmed Taya, “the source of sovereignty and legality” and the master of its own destiny and affairs. Having won the struggle for democracy and achieved the institution of the rule of law and the guarantee of all individual and collective rights, Mauritania is engaged in another, equally determined struggle against economic and social underdevelopment. In this regard, many economic reform programmes have been implemented since 1985 within the framework of a liberal policy incorporating all development dimensions and designed to raise the living standards of citizens and making basic services available to them. These reforms have allowed us to reinvigorate public finances, overcome inflation and restore continued growth. Many projects have also been carried out in the areas of communications, transportation infrastructure, village electrification, expanded water-supply networks and increased health-care coverage. Let me express our appreciation to all of the brotherly and friendly countries, institutions and non-governmental organizations that have supported my country’s efforts towards these goals and thank them for the aid they have provided and continue to provide. Strengthening democracy and economic and social development requires the consolidation of peace and security both for States and individuals. We must therefore note the striking paradox, despite the end of the cold war and new hopes for peace and justice, of the re-emergence of terrorism, instability and the proliferation of hotbeds of tension around the world. The Middle East is one region where, unfortunately, this paradox is most alarming. My country, renewing its full support for the peace process, remains convinced that Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 13 425 (1978) and the principle of “land for peace”, adopted at the Madrid Conference, remain the bases for any comprehensive, just and lasting peace in that region. We also believe that there can be no real solution to the Middle East problem as long as Israel has not withdrawn from all the occupied Palestinian territories, including the Holy Arab City of Al-Quds, the Golan and southern Lebanon. We had therefore welcomed the new era that seemed to have emerged with the signing on 13 September 1993 of the Declaration of Principles on the autonomy of Gaza and Jericho and other positive advances that followed, especially the 1994 Cairo agreement, the peace Agreement between Israel and Jordan, and the Taba Agreement on the implementation of the second phase of the Declaration of Principles, signed in Washington on 28 September 1995. We had hoped that the Palestinian people will soon see the end of its tragedy by recovering its legitimate right to self- determination and to establish its independent State on its territory. On this basis, and in order to ensure the continuation of the peace process, the concluded Agreements must be implemented and commitments undertaken must be honoured. Negotiations must resume among all the concerned parties on the basis of the principles arrived at and accepted by all and in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. My country also insists on the need to lift the embargo imposed on the brotherly Palestinian people, the devastating consequences of which on the fledgling Palestinian economy and the repercussions of which on security in the Palestinian territories could endanger the peace process. Finally, we invite the two sponsors of the peace process to assume fully their responsibilities in order to allow the people of the region to recover their legitimate rights and to open a new chapter in the history of this subregion, so that its potential can be put to the service of economic development and social advancement. Nearby, the aftermath of the Gulf War continues to raise obstacles to the normalization of the situation in that region. In this regard, my country has always affirmed and wishes to reaffirm today its dedication to respect for international legality and the United Nations resolutions pertaining to the Gulf War and its consequences. We reiterate our rejection of any threat to the independence of Kuwait and its territorial integrity and we call for the settlement of the question of Kuwaiti prisoners. We also reaffirm our consistent position of rejecting any action threatening the unity of fraternal Iraq and the integrity of its territory. We call for the lifting of the embargo imposed on the Iraqi people, which is subjecting them to famine and disease. In this regard, my country wishes to see implemented, as soon as possible, Security Council resolution 986 (1995) on the issue of oil for food. We also wish to express our rejection of the plan being entertained by some of Iraq’s neighbours to create a safe area in northern Iraq, in contradiction to their declared dedication to territorial integrity and unity and in violation of the principles and rules of international law and the United Nations Charter. My country believes that the United Arab Emirates has the inalienable right to recover its full and complete sovereignty over the islands of Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb. We reiterate our support for the United Arab Emirates in its endeavours to recover its rights by all available means. In the Arab Maghreb, the question of Western Sahara is a consistent source of great concern because of its threat to stability and security in the subregion. My country also believes that the United Nations, and the Security Council in particular, should, now more than ever, assume its full responsibility for the implementation of the settlement plan, in keeping with resolutions adopted to that end on the holding of a free and impartial referendum that will make it possible to achieve a comprehensive and definitive solution to the question of Western Sahara and to ensure security and stability in the region. For our part, we continue to be prepared to contribute positively to the achievement of that aim. With regard to the embargo that for several years has affected the Libyan people, my country wishes to see greater receptivity to Libya’s obvious willingness to cooperate with the United Nations and other concerned parties, in seeking a solution to the crisis between it and certain western countries. We call for the lifting of this embargo — which is hurting the Libyan people and all the peoples of the Maghreb — and hope that the proposal of the League of Arab States, which enjoys broad support, will open up new opportunities to put an end to it. With regard to security and stability, Africa continues to face major problems. Conflicts are spreading death, famine and epidemic throughout the continent. In Somalia, the war continues to leave a train of death and destruction and the international community, despite the solidarity it has shown in the past through its 14 involvement, no longer evinces much interest in a situation that is threatening the Somali people. We hope the Somali people will overcome their differences and find a way to conduct a constructive dialogue. In Liberia, we hope that the peace process will continue, in keeping with the Abuja Agreement, and we reiterate our support for the decisions taken by the ministerial ad hoc Committee of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) at its seventh session and the decisions and recommendations of the last two summits of the Organization of African Unity and ECOWAS on Liberia, so that peace and harmony may return to that fraternal country. We hope that our Rwandan and Burundian brothers will, in their countries, resolve their conflicts and seek dialogue and understanding in solving their problems. We also hope that they will be able to face the challenges of development and devote to it the energies now being devoted to their differences. With regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina, my country expresses satisfaction at the important advances made along the road to peace, especially the recent democratic elections. We reaffirm also the need to continue implementation of the Dayton Agreement and to see the international community exert the necessary effort for the reconstruction of that country, whose infrastructure has been destroyed and whose people have suffered the most horrifying forms of aggression. The United Nations must adapt to the world as it is and to the changes it undergoes. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania wishes to reiterate its willingness and commitment to work in concert with other Member States towards the realization of the noble goals of our Organization, in particular the consolidation of peace and security in the world. At a time when most third-world countries are facing enormous challenges that hamper their advance towards greater progress and prosperity, and while our planet is facing environmental challenges that threaten the future of all life on Earth, considerable resources are being devoted to the production, refinement and acquisition of weapons of mass destruction of all kinds, while official development assistance continues to decline. In this respect we hope that the recent Treaty prohibiting nuclear tests will be one important step along the way to complete and general disarmament, the only way to free up the necessary resources for the development of the third world. Today, more than half a century after the creation of our Organization, we must be fully aware of our common destiny. We must dedicate ourselves to promoting mutually advantageous international cooperation and bringing about effective solidarity equal to the challenges we face to ensure a better future for all humankind. My country, as in the past, will continue to work towards the strengthening of friendly and brotherly relations among all peoples and nations in the pursuit of the noble ideals aspired to by the founding fathers of the United Nations. ﻿Let me offer Ambassador Razali my sincerest congratulation on his election as President of the General Assembly. This session will address many difficult and important questions. I am confident that under his experienced and wise leadership we shall achieve good and constructive results. I should also like to express the thanks and appreciation of my Government to the Secretary-General and to the many dedicated women and men in the Secretariat. Let me refer to the statement made by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ireland on behalf of the European Union. My Government fully endorses that statement. As the United Nations enters its fifty-first year, one conclusion is self-evident: questions of peace, development and human rights can no longer be neatly separated. They interact, and nowhere more so than at the United Nations. Let me begin with human rights. There can be no sustainable peace in societies where the human rights of individuals are not respected or where their democratic aspirations are denied. Widespread violations of human rights, including the rights of minorities, breed instability and conflict. The United Nations is then, often too late, called upon to deal with them. There can be no sustainable development in societies where economic and social rights, as well as political rights, are flouted. Authoritarian rule is no answer to poverty or environmental degradation. The universality of human rights cannot be questioned. True, civilizations differ; societies differ. But that does not mean that cultural, religious, ideological or any other factors can be invoked as legitimate justifications for human rights violations. To do so is to deny the inherent equality of human beings. But adherence to general principles is not enough. The litmus test is, of course, practice. Here at the United Nations we must ask ourselves what we can do together to promote respect for human rights. I see at least three areas where the General Assembly can and should act. First, we must see to it that the United Nations mechanisms that have been created to promote and monitor respect for human rights are not impaired through lack of funds. The High Commissioner for Human Rights, his special rapporteurs and the human rights treaty bodies within the United Nations system are entitled to our support. The General Assembly should insist on the necessary funding. Secondly, we must help establish, in accordance with the conclusions of the Preparatory Committee, a permanent international criminal court to deal with flagrant violations of international humanitarian law and 3 human rights. I do not have to belabour the reasons why. One look at Rwanda or the former Yugoslavia is enough. Thirdly, we must ensure sustained and integrated follow-up of the United Nations conferences from Vienna to Istanbul, so as to implement fully the agreed programmes of action. Nationally, Governments must commit the resources necessary to make the agreed actions a reality. In the case of the Vienna and Beijing Conferences in particular, full and equal enjoyment of human rights by all women everywhere must be the first goal towards which the United Nations and all Governments must aspire. In Finland, women gained full political rights — the right to vote and, just as important, the right to be eligible for Parliament — as early as 1906; that is, 90 years ago. Finland thus became the very first country in the world where this was made possible. We have come a long way since then, but we still need to do better until, finally, women are just as equally empowered in Finnish society as men. I know that the same is true to varying degrees in other countries too. Children, whether girls or boys, are full-fledged subjects of human rights. Almost universal ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child has been achieved. States Parties must now ensure universal implementation too. The message from the recent Stockholm World Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children was clear: full implementation of children’s rights is also the best guarantee against sexual exploitation. The United Nations must now, along with Governments, follow up the commitments of Stockholm, and with vigour. Even the most democratic societies are vulnerable to conflicts, even to armed ones. We should therefore do our utmost to prevent them and, to this end, make full use of all means available to the international community. Finland believes in United Nations peacekeeping. We have participated for 40 years and stand ready to continue. The sheer complexity of modern-day conflicts has turned United Nations thinking towards comprehensive peace operations. Peacekeeping must be seen as a part of a comprehensive peace process. We welcome this approach. The civilian and military elements of a peace operation should operate in close cooperation. Artificial barriers separating the two should be eliminated right at the outset in devising the mandate for an operation. It is also important that peace operations be linked with longer-term peace-building efforts to promote stability and sustainable human development. Lessons have been learned the hard way in the past few years. United Nations peacekeepers are not suited for peace enforcement. That job should and can be entrusted by the Security Council to others — whether regional organizations or other outside ad hoc coalitions — if necessary. But these are exceptional cases. For the vast majority of conflicts, the United Nations will be the one called upon for peacekeeping. Even if the United Nations must be able to say no on occasions, the world Organization cannot shirk its responsibility. Moreover, when the United Nations acts, it should act on time and with the support of its members, including funding. Time is of the essence in responding to crises. Further development of the existing standby arrangements with Member States is the most practical way to enhance the rapid-reaction capability of the Organization. Therefore, Finland strongly supports the establishment of a rapidly deployable headquarters unit at the United Nations as soon as possible. Prevention, naturally, is better than cure. In peacekeeping as well, preventive deployment is an innovation that is working right now in The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Finland is convinced that the United Nations Preventive Deployment Force (UNPREDEP) operation is making a crucial contribution to stability in the whole region. It is a full-fledged operation in preventive diplomacy encompassing good offices, monitoring and human and institutional development, as well as troop deployment. That contribution, based on the present mandate, should continue until peace and stability in the whole region are better assured. This is the year of the nuclear-test ban. That is what the General Assembly demanded a year ago, and that is what the vast majority of the world’s nations has now agreed. I was proud to sign the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty for my country. That Treaty will strengthen the security of all of us, without exception. Banning nuclear-test explosions is a goal to which the international community has been committed for decades. The Treaty accomplishes that goal. At the same time, the Treaty is a step towards the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons. 4 However, focusing on nuclear weapons is not enough. We also need to focus on weapons that maim and kill people today. Those weapons are conventional weapons, particularly landmines, other small arms and light weapons. The excessive accumulation and proliferation of small arms threaten to destabilize communities, countries and entire regions. A United Nations expert panel, on which my country is represented, is looking into the problem right now. Finland, for one, expects concrete recommendations on how to deal with this clear and present danger nationally, regionally and through the United Nations. The indiscriminate use of anti-personnel landmines is the most visible manifestation of the small-arms emergency. When they finally achieve peace, societies already ravaged by years of war are severely hampered in their reconstruction efforts by landmines that have been indiscriminately sown by the millions. A concerted international effort, led by the United Nations, is needed to assist in mine clearance. Demining should also be made an integral part of peacekeeping mandates, as was recently suggested by Germany and endorsed by the Security Council. It is increasingly clear, however, that in the end only a prohibition of inhumane and indiscriminate landmine use can bring a real solution. To be effective, such a solution must be legally binding, global and verifiable. As the first step, all States should adhere to and abide by the significantly strengthened landmine Protocol to the Convention on conventional weapons. I find it very hard to understand why two out of three United Nations Member States continue to remain outside that Convention. As a concurrent step Finland proposes the initiation of global negotiations on a treaty banning anti-personnel landmines altogether. A natural forum for such negotiations would be the single negotiating body for disarmament that the international community has at its disposal, namely, the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva. Finland will work actively for the inclusion of a ban on anti-personnel landmines in the negotiating agenda of the Conference on Disarmament when the Conference reconvenes in January. In assisting in the creation of conditions of stability and well-being, the United Nations has effective economic and social tools at its disposal. A review of how the United Nations does its business in this field is under way. The approval in May of the resolution on restructuring and revitalization of some areas in the Economic and Social Council sector was an encouraging sign. The yardstick in measuring United Nations impact on development should be how the Organization has been able to alleviate poverty and contribute to the improvement of the quality of life. The first priority now, as we see it, should be to assess the impact of the development activities of the United Nations system at the country level. We were pleased to note that last year the General Assembly initiated a process to that effect. I have two remarks in this regard. First, it is necessary to concentrate United Nations development activities on the poorest countries and the most vulnerable groups of society. Secondly, better integration of the United Nations at the country level would enhance efficiency. It would promote closer coordination between development activities, on the one hand, and humanitarian and peacekeeping activities on the other. The commitments made at recent United Nations conferences provide a comprehensive agenda for follow-up. One of the conferences, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, will be prominently present at this fifty-first session of the General Assembly. That Conference is a promising example of the capabilities of the United Nations. It has made global environmental concerns an everyday reality for all of us. The follow-up session next year will afford a unique opportunity to assess progress and review priorities. In my view, one of the emerging priorities would be a political commitment at the global level for sustainable forest management. Finland attaches great importance to the Intergovernmental Panel on Forests, which has been established and which expects to submit concrete action- oriented recommendations to the special session. Before concluding my statement, I wish to refer to the statement issued by the Presidency of the European Union yesterday regarding the killings and violent incidents in the West Bank and Gaza. I want to state that my Government fully endorses that statement. On behalf of the Government of Finland, I appeal to the parties concerned to take every measure to restore calm and refrain from acts of violence and provocation. We also urge the parties to re-engage the peace process, which had already achieved such promising results. 5 In view of the Security Council’s primary role in the maintenance of international peace and security, the reform of the Council is of particular urgency. The discussions on this subject during the fiftieth session were thorough and useful. Convergence of views emerged on many important issues, yet on others, differences still remain. I believe that the time is now ripe to take a step forward and engage in real negotiations on a comprehensive reform of the Council. Meanwhile, in a few weeks we shall elect new non- permanent members to the present Security Council. As is well known, the five Nordic Countries give their full support to Sweden. I am confident that the other Member States will also recognize the merits of our neighbouring country. The Deputy Prime Minister of Ireland, Mr. Dick Spring, when speaking on behalf of the European Union, underlined the obligation of all Member States to pay their arrears and their assessed contributions to the United Nations. Finland having been the first Member State to pay in full, on time and without conditions its assessed contribution to the regular budget of the United Nations in 1996, I feel it both my right and my duty to reiterate that appeal. The United Nations, we agree, needs renewed focus and streamlining. Let us now find the determination and will to proceed with the necessary reform.  ﻿I would like first of all to congratulate Ambassador Razali on his election to the presidency of the Assembly and to wish him every success in his work. It would seem that after half a century, the debate on the meaning, importance, role and timeliness of this Organization has become increasingly impassioned. It could be said that the United Nations is on trial. It may be that some of the criticism is justified. It is accused, for instance, of having a large bureaucracy, and it is said that there is a proliferation of situations requiring the deployment of military forces to pave the path for peace, which is also a path riddled with war. These situations came about without the consent of the Member States, who must all bear their share of the costs. This enlarged bureaucracy, added to the expenses of military peacekeeping, increases the financial burden of the weaker countries. Yet, it seems to be the strong countries that most resent and denounce this burden. Nevertheless, to thoroughly assess and evaluate what the United Nations is and what it represents, we would have to compare it to another such organization of its kind, one that had brought together nearly 200 sovereign States, led them by the hand through 50 of the most enigmatic and dangerous years of history and remained a point of reference when all the ideological references had collapsed. And that other organization has never existed. As far as we know, humanity has never lived through 50 continuous years of peace, yet 51 years have passed without a tremor of generalized conflict like the ones that once seemed to be cyclical. Even though misunderstandings and aggressions appear on one continent or another, based on deep-seated racial, religious or political hatred, and leading to genocide or local wars, we cannot speak of a conflagration, especially when the will of the people of all regions rises above these wars, committed to the restoration of peace. The international community, in varying degrees, has started to review its greatest Organization, and it has focused its attention first on the Security Council. Fortunately, the creative imagination of States has suggested various ways to change it in order to make it more representative of the new world realities and, of 13 course, to make it more efficient. My country follows this process with enormous interest, aware that the Security Council will be the centre of balance of the world system. In the meantime, this long period of relative peace has allowed for the rise of European integration, which is perhaps the greatest political achievement of our century. It has made possible the growth of daring and vigorous technological civilizations in Asian countries as well as understanding and growth in the Latin American region, which today has become, thanks to this understanding, humankind’s most promising abode. In this framework, Venezuela has broadened its ties with and deepened its commitments to the great causes of our time, such as the enforcement of human rights, truly representative democracy, integration as an economic and political culture of our modern era and disarmament as a guarantee of world security. Tomorrow, on behalf of my country I shall proudly sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. My country hopes that the criticism levelled at the Organization will justify itself by leading to logical plans to reform and revitalize it. Its success must be definitively established in the implementation of human rights, in the fight against terrorism and in the alliance to exterminate drug trafficking and connected activities. A special session of the General Assembly has been called on this latter topic at Mexico’s urging. In his current report on the work of the Organization, the Secretary-General refers to the territorial controversy between Venezuela and Guyana. I must note that this controversy lies within the framework of the 1966 Geneva agreement signed by both countries in order to reach a practical and lasting solution to this dispute. In a spirit of dialogue and cooperation between the two parties, we appealed to the Secretary-General’s good offices and are now applying one of the mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of disputes provided for in the United Nations Charter. We are therefore surprised that this case is expressly mentioned in the chapter on conflict situations. As a Latin American, I must recognize that, thanks to this lasting peace, my region, a scion of Europe, and its creature in many respects, has resumed friendly relations with its natural metropolis after 80 years of world wars that had separated us and created a rift in the cultural patterns that had governed us for centuries. Of course, numerous threats linger on. The so-called weapon-States that have the financial resources to spark a regional conflict that can multiply and spread are still there, untouched by democratic norms and mostly driven by fanaticism. In countries where no one would have imagined it, the danger of racial discrimination returns like a nightmare. At the very centre of the most cultured continent, we have witnessed a war and a genocide that we would angrily condemn in Cambodia or in Rwanda, and among countries that have been an world example of tolerance and coexistence for centuries. The followers of two religions that are virtually the same confront and exterminate one another almost daily. At the same time, the conditions of exchanges, the goals of good policies and the miracle of modern communications lead to a free flow of trade, technology, scientific models and human movement, both through tourism and through commercial interests. All this is bringing humanity together as a whole, using information to express an impassioned interest that is beginning to be widely known as globalization. The Organization still has to overcome the prophecies and schemes of pessimistic traditions, according to which natural law dictates the existence of wars, diseases and other disasters as a fateful necessity to regulate population growth and as an incentive to devise technologies and scientific developments in the escalation that Malthusians see in their observation of nature. Peace is the primary purpose of the United Nations; war is the recourse most commonly used by humanity to try to solve imbalances and resentments. And we have peace, ceaselessly troubled but always re-established as far as and wherever possible. But we must remember that war is the most chronic of recidivists, since greed and ambition feed on it. We might say that what this Organization needs to solve universal strife, poverty and untrammelled population growth is a human resource development and systematic education project to do away with the fragile ethics of our time and to teach all nations the art of living — and living together. Fears, suspicions and animosities are engendered by ignorance among people and nations. I speak on behalf of a country whose most important natural resource has endowed it with power and economic euphoria on the one hand, and plunged it into acute psychological depression on the other. That resource is oil, of which we hold the largest and most secure reserves in the Western world. Since oil legally belongs to the State, as do all underground resources, the State finds it, 14 processes it, sells it and distributes its revenues as services. Little by little, the old agricultural country became used to stretching out a hand to receive from the State gifts of protectionism, subsidies, scholarships, credits and even undue largesse, all of which used to come from the land as a reward for labour. For more than two generations Venezuelans relied exclusively on oil, disregarding personal effort. At times, the State demagogically encouraged this dependency and promoted idleness, thus leading to ethical complications born of collusion between politics and the economy. This is the deep-seated reason for the so-called Venezuelan crisis. It is different from others because it is not economic but moral, and can only be solved by a return to honest behaviour and personal endeavour, which requires a great deal of time and effort. This is what the Administration of President Rafael Caldera is striving for. After trying to reverse the enormous evils he inherited, using measures that were not too harmful economically for the weakest sector, on 15 April, he decided to open up the economy and incorporate prevailing market economy values through the Venezuelan Agenda. He was careful, however, to establish a programme to absorb the enormous shock this opening causes transitionally on the majorities accustomed to the old State paternalism. After a brief period, we are emerging from this unique crisis, which cannot be and could not have been resolved by a simple decree, as other crises, since it required and still requires a change in habits in order for people to learn to be self-sufficient. The case of Venezuela could recur in other countries characterized by State paternalism. If we look closely at the so-called social crisis that all Latin American countries suffer, we can see it is due to a lack of training. We used to say that education was the universal solution to all problems, and it is. But at a time when Latin American society has become unhinged because of peasant migrations undoing the social and moral order, with the ensuing marginalization brought about by a change in customs leading to the degradation of the family, both education and training are absolute necessities. The breakdown of the traditional home deprives people of the essential ethical values that used to be learned from the mother. Nowadays, the State must replace the home and the mother, in preparing the inner self of its citizens. It is evident, therefore, that training and education are of primary importance since the human being’s inner self must be strengthened in order to rebuild the family unit, which gives coherence, pride and courage to a society. Simón Bolívar, the Liberator of America, grasped the whole problem when he said, “Morality and enlightenment are our first necessities”. Perhaps the whole world today suffers the same evil and has the same needs. The United Nations, through its specialized agencies, is carrying out innumerable programmes, studies, trials and experiments to solve the daily tragedy of our human species. This is becoming more and more complex since the efforts are aimed at an already deformed being, incapable, therefore, of living in harmony with others. If we were to agree that the chain connecting home, primary school, secondary school, university, and life broke down some time ago, and that it is missing its first link, without which all else is pointless and without foundation, we would invest at the very roots of human life the economic and scientific resources needed to form human beings from the start, enabling them to grow, endowed with the values that would make them citizens. Latin America, born unaware of racial hatred, religious conflicts and territorial greed, with an indivisible spirit made up of a combination of influences that move in the same direction on the freest and broadest of stages, is hurt by the fact that its real problems today are social ones, brought on by the error of political regimes that ignored the discipline of education or doubted its undeniable primacy. Democracy has taken root in Latin America as in no other part of the universe as a consequence of political desire. Nevertheless, we are not satisfied, because democracy must mean the eradication of age-old ills and constitute, more than merely a system to elect governments, a cogent civilization. We aspire to a democracy transparent in its conduct and effective in its achievements to continue offering it as an alternative to the ancient dictatorships. This explains my country’s perseverance in attaining an honest and clean democracy. In this regard, we have proposed a convention against corruption, which has been approved at the hemispheric level. Strangely enough, it would be the first of its kind in the world, which goes to show how strongly entrenched this vice is: it has gone unpunished by dictatorships and democracies alike throughout time and around the world. The day is not distant when this instrument, limited now to our hemisphere, will encompass our whole 15 Organization, since the crime it prosecutes is not exclusively American but takes root in many countries on all continents. During the last substantive session of the Economic and Social Council, Venezuela, together with Argentina, the United States and other countries, sponsored a United Nations declaration on corruption and bribery in transnational commercial activities, which is clear proof that the fight against unpunished corruption prospers in the world. If the United Nations, aware that the key to universal change lies in training and education, were to inspire and lead an in-depth study of what makes a human being, of the way societies that break into conflict or serve as models for others are defined by the sum of their members; if the United Nations were to use the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to add a universal teaching component to all its cooperation programmes, then the true ethical and human redemption of society would begin. Free of prejudice and with sufficient resources, Latin America, a melting pot of customs and races, could serve as a laboratory to show how the human species can straighten its spine of ethics, which has been so twisted in so many places. Our America as a whole is a welcoming place for peace, since there are no elements of unease or insecurity other than social asymmetries — not the asymmetries of blood-lines, but those of dire poverty, born of the incapacity to transform and distribute our plentiful natural resources. We are living a unique moment in history. In a short time, without violence, we have seen great empires come to an end, the elimination of the cruellest jails of human thought, the liberation of all wills and the opening of the greatest opportunity peoples have ever had to reorganize themselves in accordance with hopes and desires that were long repressed or thwarted by violence of all sorts. As Marguerite Yourcenar says in her biography of Hadrian, referring to the religious perplexity of the great Emperor: in his lifetime the old gods no longer existed and Christ had not yet arrived. Humanity’s present spirit seems to be similar: free, but still dazed and hesitant to adopt a new order from a new mould; but, above all, free, although at this fateful moment great leaders might be lacking. The United Nations holds and reflects this feeling — hovering between jubilation and disbelief — like a prodigy standing before the panorama of infinite possibilities of what we can create with the fertile dreams of our era.  ﻿It is an honour for me to address the fifty-first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, confident that it will make yet another positive contribution to the advancement of world peace and cooperation among nations and countries of the world. The current international political and security situation is burdened with many crises, cases of blatant violation of international law, the uncontrolled hoarding of arms, upsets of the ecological balance, disrespect for human rights, widespread international terrorism, and tensions in economic and social development. Such developments have confronted the United Nations with the need to reform its system in order to preserve its ability to carry out its functions. This is especially so in the case of the plans that should determine global development in the twenty-first century, alleviate existing gaps in the economic and social development of countries and regions, and advance world peace. The subject of the expansion of the Security Council is undoubtedly one that should receive priority treatment at this session. In view of the changed structure of the international community and the growing role of the Security Council in recent years, and of the need for further democratization of the decision-making process as regards global peace and security, the conditions for expansion seem ripe. The Republic of Macedonia is actively taking part in the activities of the Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council. We believe that the proposal for including the Federal Republic of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council, as well as the expansion of the number of rotating members is realistic and deserves special attention. At the same time, other constructive and complementary approaches in circulation should also be kept in mind. If necessary, the Republic of Macedonia is prepared to make an individual proposal in this respect with a view to overcoming any possible delay in the resolution of this issue. Wishing to make a constructive and active contribution to the work of the United Nations, the Republic of Macedonia has submitted its candidacy for rotating membership in the Security Council for the 1998-1999 term. We are convinced that our demeanour during and following the dissolution of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the constructive and peaceful policy we have upheld, our acknowledged position as a factor of stability in the Balkans, our commitment to its Europeanization and our activities within the United Nations to date will be a sufficient basis and guarantee for securing the support of United Nations Members for our candidacy. I wish to assure them that we will fully justify the confidence they bestow. From the very onset of our independence, the Republic of Macedonia, the only one of the former Yugoslav republics to achieve independence peacefully, has distinguished itself as an example of a country whose leverage in the international community and whose foreign policy are founded on consistent respect for the principles of the United Nations, a readiness to cooperate with neighbouring and other countries and to resolve all open issues in a peaceful manner on the basis of mutual respect, the inviolability of borders and non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries. Led by these commitments, the Republic of Macedonia submitted two resolutions for good-neighbourly relations among the Balkan countries. They were sponsored by more than 30 countries and adopted unanimously, with the aim of undertaking measures and preventive action that will create a stable zone of peace and cooperation in the Balkans by the end of the year 2000. In accordance with the resolutions, the Republic of Macedonia will be the host of a high-level international meeting of the Balkan countries in January next year, dedicated to the advancement of stability in the region. Led by the principles of the United Nations, last year the Republic of Macedonia signed the Interim Accord with the Republic of Greece within the framework of the negotiations held under United Nations auspices. The positive results of this Accord are already evident. We are confident of the prospects for good and friendly relations between our countries and that we will reconcile the remaining differences. The level of democratization we have achieved, our reforms aimed at adapting the economy to market mechanisms, and our high human-rights standards confirm our intentions of becoming fully integrated into international and regional economic and security structures. Today, the Republic of Macedonia is a full- fledged member of the Council of Europe, the oldest European political organization, and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). It is a partner in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s “Partnership for Peace”. It has also concluded a cooperation agreement with the European Union, with prospects for closer association and membership in the Union. The peace-keeping forces of the United Nations that comprise the United Nations Preventive Deployment Force (UNPREDEP) in the Republic of Macedonia have set the precedent for the United Nations successful involvement in the concept of preventive diplomacy. They have clearly demonstrated the justification and merit of this concept. We have a very high regard for the role that UNPREDEP plays in the preservation of peace and security in the Republic of Macedonia and the region. Consequently, and in view of the existing and potential threats to peace in the region, we have already requested an extension of the UNPREDEP mandate for an additional six months. The region in which my country is situated, the Balkans, is one of the most sensitive in Europe. It is presently in the midst of the so-called “post-Dayton” era encompassing the process of bringing to life the fragile peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the normalization of relationships among countries and the opening of prospects for development and cooperation in the region. In this context, the Republic of Macedonia, as a peaceful country oriented towards Europe, remains steadfast in its policy, especially in terms of resolving the economic and social problems it is facing as a country in transition and particularly with regard to the rights of national minorities as a precondition not only for democratization and security in Macedonia, but also for wider security in the southern Balkans. The Republic of Macedonia has opted for the model of respect for human and minority rights and for the implementation of international standards pertaining to the rights of national minorities. This is guaranteed by the firm provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia and through its legislative and political practice. We remain deeply convinced that, in the ethnically inter-mixed Balkans, the guaranteed rights of national minorities are the most important long-term factor for stable peace and cooperation. This is why we have proposed the idea of a comparative study regarding national- minority rights in the Balkans that will enable much more efficient action to 2 be taken by such international institutions as the OSCE, the Council of Europe and most certainly the United Nations. Allow me to conclude my address by expressing my conviction that a vision of the world in the twenty-first century as one of peace, democracy and well-being will prompt all of us and the United Nations to act with persistence and determination. It is my hope that the decisions and the direction set out by this year’s General Assembly will be a step towards that goal.   ﻿I join all those who have gone before me in congratulating you, Sir, on behalf of Mauritius, on your accession to the office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. I also thank Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal for his skilful stewardship of the fiftieth session. Hearing and reading the speeches of world leaders to this Assembly, I am struck by the extraordinary degree of unanimity between them — how much we seem to agree in principle but how little on the right course of action; on the necessity of diplomacy and discussion as the primary path to peace; on the necessity of according to every man, woman and child the fundamental rights and freedoms which this Organization has, over the years, done so much to establish; on the necessity of providing equal opportunities for men, women and children in all our societies; on the necessity of protecting the environment; and on the need to ensure that mankind moves forward together on the path of development. In all these noble and commendable aims we are united. However, we often seem to suffer from a paralysis when it comes to actual implementation of these good intentions. This Organization was the response of the human race to the catastrophic experiences of two world wars and to scientific discoveries and inventions which confronted us with unprecedented choices. It was an expression of faith in the power of human beings to be rational in the face of these choices and to choose the paths of peace and progress instead of war and destruction. But sometimes its voice has seemed very faint and far off in the midst of the terrible troubles that have afflicted us since then. Some have begun to mutter of the ineffectiveness of the institution and to complain of the cost. I am convinced that those criticisms do not begin to express the whole truth about the work that is done by this Organization. We are embarked upon a great and necessary experiment, and that is why the work of the Secretary-General is so important. Here I should like to pay tribute to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose contribution has been so valuable in recent years. It is particularly appropriate that this great office should be filled, as we move into the next millennium, by a representative of Africa, for Africa remains the great intransigent challenge which the world has scarcely yet begun to face. Only through the renewed and concerted determination of this Organization and the vision of cooperation and mutual responsibility which it represents is there any hope of successfully meeting the extraordinary difficulties which the next century will bring. Decade after decade, many of the nations of Africa have seen their efforts at development frustrated by natural and man-made disasters, poor governance and a hostile international environment. Foreign aid has not had the desired impact on the progress of these countries, and the poorer nations have accumulated huge and unmanageable debt which they labour, with inadequate tools, to support. As the Assembly knows, of the 36 poorest countries in the world, as classified by the United Nations Development Programme in the human development index, 29 are in Africa. The majority of them have per capita incomes lower than they were 20 years ago. The countries of sub-Saharan Africa last year attracted only 3 per cent of the foreign direct investment into the developing world, compared to 20 per cent for Latin America and the Caribbean and 59 per cent for East Asia and the Pacific region. Life expectancy is placed at 50.9 years, the lowest among developing countries. At the same time, a new and more demanding international economic order is emerging, one in which Africa is beginning to feel overwhelmed and isolated from the mainstream of world economic development. If some of its nations have not yet caught up with the industrial revolution, what hope have they, unaided, of reaching the heights of the technological and information revolutions which are sweeping the developed countries of the world towards new horizons. If we are to bring Africa into the general march of the economies of the world towards progress and prosperity, we must begin, at the highest level, to coordinate and to chart a course for Africa to join in. Piecemeal aid and occasional intervention on the occasion of awesome disasters will not be enough. Therefore, we welcome the Group of Seven’s commitment in Lyon to a partnership for development and to the elimination of trade barriers to exports from developing countries. These barriers must come down. But we question whether this and private investment alone will be sufficient. Swift and dramatic debt relief for countries in need of it is essential. We welcome the lead provided by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in this regard, but it must be followed by decisive and urgent action. Measures should also be designed to promote the growth of real democracy and good governance, for economic prosperity must go hand in hand with democracy and the rule of law. It may seem temporarily otherwise. It may seem that the creation of wealth can, for a while, be separated from the yearning of the people and of individuals to be free, but sooner or later the force of the aspirations which prosperity brings will burst forth, as the waters burst from the dam. Surely we must look with dismay at many areas of our world in which human rights are discounted or denied. A case in point is Myanmar, where a democratic vote, held in 1990, has been defeated and denied by force, and where the house of the elected leader of the people is kept under constant surveillance and surrounded by soldiers. My Government will continue to support the cause of democracy and human rights in Africa and wherever in the world such support is required. Mauritius will later this month host the twentieth session of the African Commission of Human and People’s Rights, which commemorates the tenth anniversary of its African Charter. This session of the Commission will undertake, with the participation of non-governmental organizations and other interested elements of civil society, an assessment and reevaluation of the implementation of the Charter and prepare a five-year plan of action which we are confident will greatly help strengthen and improve the situation of human rights in our continent. My country, whose only resources are the stability of its democracy and the enterprising spirit of its people, comprises many races, cultures and religions. We look to Europe, Africa, the Far East and the Indian subcontinent for our cultural inheritance. Our people cross many divides. Therefore, we are able to witness and sense the impact of the rapid development of the modern world upon these different cultures and peoples more quickly, because we are a part of them. And I can tell the Assembly that what we see gives us cause for concern. As the old world order passes and a new one replaces it, we are going through a period of transition fraught with pitfalls and dangers. We cannot but be dismayed at the number of countries that are falling prey to the ancient and deadly sirens of ethnicity and narrow nationalism that appeal to man’s baser instincts of intolerance and xenophobic fear. Our continent of Africa seems particularly affected. Somalia and Liberia seem to descend endlessly into chaos, while Burundi threatens to blow up again. We are concerned by recent indications that parties to the Middle East peace process may be giving in to the temptation of pandering to extremist fringes. We owe peace to this Holy Land and to the generations to come. We owe it to the memory of two statesmen who laid down their lives to this cause. The resolute pursuit of peace is the only way to defeat the assassins, those who felled President Sadat and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. In the Commonwealth family of nations to which we belong, the uniqueness of which is its very diversity, a number of Member States are blighted by this affliction. Mauritius fervently hopes that the sister island of Fiji will soon be able to resume its rightful place in the comity of nations by correcting the inequities written into that nation’s constitution in a moment of tension, when racist passions were unbridled. We would be pleased to share with the people of Fiji our own constitutional experience of a pluricultural society. In my own country, only 10 months ago in a free and democratic election, the people voted overwhelmingly for change. The Government has pledged to render our democratic process even more transparent and unequivocal. The numerous strategies and policy objectives enunciated by the new Government at the beginning of the current legislature, earlier this year, aim precisely at confronting squarely the problems that we face on all the issues that I have broached. Our overriding objective will be to ultimately make the economy work for the people and not the people work for the economy. While a Government’s overall objective is to improve the well-being of the people, sound economic 12 policies alone will not make our countries prosper. In order to create the right environment for the economy to flourish there must be good governance. This is also a moral imperative. The history of mankind inevitably moves in the direction of greater freedom, more transparency, wider accountability in all sectors of public life and greater access to information held by public agencies relating to citizens. My Government is committed to a continuing process of democratization which will reinforce our institutions by creating wider confidence in them. We are convinced that this will create a climate more conducive to investment and will enhance the creative and entrepreneurial spirit of our people. While the pursuit of happiness has perforce to be individual and private, it cannot be to the detriment of the collective good. The protection of the environment is one endeavour that has to be undertaken collectively at the national as well as the global level. Only if mankind as a whole takes care to ensure the integrity of our planet can we envisage a future for generations yet to be born. It is up to us to ensure the viability and ecological health of the planet we shall bequeath to those who come after us. My Government will pursue on its own national territory a vigorous policy of conservation and rehabilitation of natural resources. Our actions at the national level will be matched by our contributions at the international and regional levels, in concert with all our partners, to advance on these same issues. Through our membership in regional and subregional organizations, we are undertaking, in close partnership with neighbouring countries, to advance and promote the same objectives that I have defined. Only one year after joining the Southern African Development Community (SADC), Mauritius has become an active member, putting its skills and knowledge in sectors where it has acquired valuable experience at the service of fellow members. Mauritius informed this Assembly last year that it had initiated a process for the creation of a regional cooperation platform in the Indian Ocean region. Indeed, the Indian Ocean region was the only one in the world which did not have such a platform to discuss the economic and social development policies of its countries in a coordinated manner. I am pleased to inform the Assembly this year that the Mauritius Indian Ocean Rim Initiative has gathered considerable momentum. The Initiative, which started with only seven countries, has doubled its membership to 14 countries. A charter has been drawn up to provide the relevant framework within which to develop and implement regional cooperation programmes. In addition, in contrast with some existing regional blocs, it has adopted an outward-looking approach, so as to be compatible with the multilateral system. The association has the distinguishing feature of having adopted a tripartite approach comprising government, the private sector and the academic community, to ensure as wide a consensus as possible. Mauritius is convening a ministerial meeting in the first week of March 1997 to give political blessing to the Indian Ocean rim association for regional cooperation. The Indian Ocean region can now serenely look forward to playing its role, as a serious regional partner in the international arena, in the effort to uplift the standard of living of the peoples of the region. I am sure that the international community will lend its full support to this nascent regional grouping, in line with the often repeated appeal for South-South cooperation. We have witnessed in recent years the growing significance of regional accords and blocs in determining and fashioning the orientation of multilateral financial and trading systems and institutions. We believe that regionalization is a necessary step towards a more liberal global environment inasmuch as it allows the less endowed countries and regions with specificities of their own to experiment and to test the political, economic and social reforms of their programmes. A similar approach has been adopted by the more advanced countries and regions, as evidenced by the emergence of the North American Free Trade Agreement and the consolidation of existing groupings, such as the European Union and the Association of South-East Asian Nations, to mention just a couple of them. In addition, we have witnessed a new interpretation of the concept of regional blocs as purely geographical units that make use of their own individual characteristics to experiment, and to test political, economic and social reforms programmes within a smaller geographical entity before challenges are confronted on a worldwide scale. Regionalization is increasingly being viewed by aid donors and international financial institutions as a means to promote overall economic development and to create an enabling environment that will attract foreign direct investment in specific regions. This process has also changed the way in which international businesses and multinational corporations are restructuring their activities. Improvements in telecommunications facilities, the adoption of advanced technology for the transmission of 13 information in real time and the use of more rapid and reliable modes of transportation have all contributed to giving regionalization a new dimension in political and economic issues. Hence, the prospects for ensuring a more balanced global development process are more real and attainable. The decades-old partnership between African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and the European Union through the Lomé Conventions, the fourth of which will come to an end in the year 2000, has served as an excellent instrument for trading agreements between the African, Asian, Pacific and Caribbean countries and the European Union. This instrument has to a very large extent helped in consolidating the links between the ACP States and the European Union. It has permitted the growth of trade, economic, political, social and cultural development, for both developed and underdeveloped countries. However, the successor agreement to Lomé IV will have to take into account the changing pattern in world trade and the acquired benefits under the Lomé Conventions, and in this context we shall wait for the publication of the green book on the subject commissioned by the European Union. The Sugar Protocol, which provides for guaranteed prices and quotas for the ACP sugar-producing countries, has been instrumental to a large extent in the socio- economic development of Mauritius. While I have addressed development issues mainly, we should not overlook the crucial question of disarmament. The principled stand of Mauritius in the field of disarmament has always been to advocate a world free of nuclear weapons as well as chemical and other weapons of mass destruction. On the question of nuclear weapons, we once again reaffirm our total commitment to nuclear disarmament, and hope that the world community will make all efforts to secure unanimity around the views expressed in this Assembly by Member States that have some difficulties with some treaty provisions. Furthermore, with regard particularly to the position of Mauritius on the recent decision on the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, we stood by the principle that we have always applied to other issues in the past, namely that of fairness and non- discrimination against any party. It is therefore imperative that we give renewed momentum to the disarmament process in general, and address the flaws of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty urgently. In order to meet the challenges of the next century, we believe that it is urgently necessary to pursue the reform of the United Nations. It is vital that the Security Council should be enlarged and made more representative and balanced among its permanent members, and should include developing countries such as India. And it is equally imperative that the Working Groups of the General Assembly should complete their task of producing an effective and credible programme for reform. It seems to us self-evident that, after 50 years, some revision and redesign is necessary. We think, with Shakespeare, “When we mean to build, We first survey the plot, then draw the model; And when we see the figure of the house, Then we must rate the cost of the erection; Which if we find outweighs ability, What do we then but draw anew the model In fewer offices...?” (King Henry IV, Part 2, Act I, Scene 3) Some have come to this Assembly in order to complain that the world and the United Nations are not doing enough. But we should inquire of ourselves first: What are we doing to advance or to hinder these causes upon which, in principle, there is such remarkable agreement? After this overview of the world situation, allow me to speak of a matter of national interest to us. One of the fundamental principles to which we all subscribe is that of respect for the sovereignty of Member States. Interference in the internal affairs of States and disregard for their national sovereignty has often been a source of tension and conflict. Now that the cold war is behind us and we move towards ever greater economic, commercial and cultural integration, we should be able to find amicable answers to questions of sovereignty. Mauritius has sovereignty disputes regarding the Chagos Archipelago and Tromelin Island with two countries with which we have historically close and friendly ties. These differences were referred to as friendly disputes by Sir Seewoosagar Ramgoolam, architect of our independence and father our nation. We hope to resolve these differences through quiet diplomacy and dialogue. The cold war has died, but the need for peace and security lives on. The state of affairs in the world today challenges us but must not daunt us. Against this background, the principle of meliorism — that the world may be made better by human effort — should prevail in our actions. Those who have the means and capabilities to help should not waver or shy away at the call of the United Nations. 14 These are some of the ideas that I wanted to share today. It is my hope that we will all join in a global partnership for the achievement of a better and stronger United Nations at the service of the peoples in whose name we stand here.  ﻿May I first extend to Mr. Razali Ismail my warmest and most sincere congratulations on his 12 unanimous election as President of this important session of the General Assembly. I recently accompanied President Carlos Saul Menem on a visit to his country, and I have the most pleasant memories of his countrymen’s hospitality, of the vitality of his culture and of the extraordinary strength of his country’s economy. To Ambassador Freitas do Amaral, who presided over the Assembly at the last session, we express our most sincere admiration. His term was a year full of difficulties and challenges, and he left us a positive vision of the questions of the future. I have had the privilege of participating in the general debate for the last six years. During that period, significant changes have come about and profound contrasts have arisen in the world. The scepticism of some notwithstanding, allow me to recall some of the progress made on the international scene: we have improved mechanisms for international peace and security; we have advanced in the universal consolidation of democracy and tolerance; we have created institutions to prevent very serious crimes that offend the world’s conscience from going unpunished, which clearly reflects the concept that justice and the law are inseparable components of a stable peace; we have successfully stepped up intense collective work towards non-proliferation of nuclear and conventional weapons, including anti-personnel mines. The adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban-Treaty will undoubtedly contribute to greater progress, as will the entry into force of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. We have also begun to articulate the concept of sustainable development to ensure progress for current generations without compromising the viability of such progress for those of the future. We have opened new paths to free trade, eliminating barriers which, until yesterday, were regarded as normal instruments of national policy. All this has happened in recent years, and it is only fitting to recognize that the Secretary-General has anticipated, promoted and reflected all this in his annual reports, in his Agenda for Peace and in his Agenda for Development, documents that are essential for the interpretation of the process begun at the end of the cold war. Allow me to take this opportunity to state how my country has dealt with all these transformations. Argentina has actively promoted the new agenda. It has adapted itself domestically and internationally to fulfil the objectives and principles of the Charter, both in its letter and its new spirit. Argentina has consolidated democracy and has taken a very active role in the defence of fundamental rights and freedoms. It has given constitutional status to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to the main human rights treaties to which it is a party. Argentina has got its economy in order and opened up new possibilities and potential for its people by promoting good governance, fiscal discipline, accountability in the management of public funds, equality before the law for domestic and foreign investors and the fight against corruption. In particular, Argentina has presented and promoted in the Organization of American States (OAS), as well as in this Assembly and other international organizations, initiatives to combat the curse of corruption, which is an enemy to development, investment and charity in society. In Argentina, sustainable development goes beyond academic discussions. The growing deterioration of the ozone layer in the southern hemisphere has affected the daily life and health of the population of southern Patagonia. Argentina, in cooperation with other countries in the region and the United Nations system, has assumed a leading role in reducing the risk level for the affected populations by establishing five ozone-layer monitoring stations in our national territory, incorporating them into the world multilateral environmental monitoring system. We strongly hope that the international community will join us in this effort by taking the necessary actions to cooperate in protecting the atmosphere. In our subregion, the southern cone of the Americas, Argentina, together with its neighbours, has played a significant role in eradicating distrust, in resolving border problems, in promoting physical and economic integration and in fostering political cooperation, all of which have generated an exemplary framework for cooperation and convergence. On the basis of political and economic stability, we have designed ambitious mechanisms for integration, and we have made the Southern Cone Common Market 13 (MERCOSUR) and the Rio Group important channels for our foreign policy. In the agreements signed at the last MERCOSUR presidential summit, the States parties — Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay and Argentina — ratified their commitment to democratic institutions. As our country sees it, this should be a prerequisite for full membership in MERCOSUR. The States parties established a mechanism for consultation and political cooperation aimed at reviewing international activities of special interest to them. At that time, agreements were also signed between MERCOSUR and Chile and Bolivia, which will significantly broaden MERCOSUR and launch our economies into an ever more globalized system. Clear evidence of this is the adoption of the interregional framework agreement between MERCOSUR and the European Union, which has given rise to positive expectations and created opportunities for strengthening links between the two regions in the economic, political and cultural fields. Argentina has promoted common activities on issues of growing importance, such as protection of the environment, preservation of natural resources and social and human development, within the framework of regional mechanisms for dialogue and political cooperation, as well as bilaterally, in regional forums and at the United Nations. Argentina participated in the adoption of concrete decisions to fight terrorism, drug trafficking and corruption, which are the new threats to international peace and security. Argentina’s natural interest in the South Atlantic is reflected in our participation in the zone of peace and cooperation in the South Atlantic, which embraces countries from both sides of the ocean in constituting an area to which we attach special significance. Member States of the zone are committed to respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity, promoting democracy, human rights and civil liberties, joining efforts for nuclear non-proliferation and de-nuclearization, and to cooperating in the struggle against drug trafficking. We are very pleased with our contribution to maintaining, together with other coastal States, the political balance and economic potential of the South Atlantic. However, there is still an important unresolved issue: the persistent sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands and their surrounding maritime spaces. During these last six years, I have come to this forum to voice the claims of the Government and people of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas Islands. It is incomprehensible that while Argentina and the United Kingdom have overcome the sorrow and have left behind their mutual disagreements and distrust and built up a harmonious and constructive relationship — and we see the positive results of this day by day — they have not so far been able to comply with the resolutions of the General Assembly and of the Decolonization Committee and to progress in the dialogue towards a definitive solution to this dispute. We have not even been able to sit down together around a table to talk, even if only to express our disagreement. In the same spirit that encouraged our two countries to cooperate in the South Atlantic for the protection of its renewable and non-renewable resources, we should advance in our search for a peaceful solution to this dispute. In spite of our efforts, the lack of direct links with the Malvinas impedes human contacts, trade and tourism, among other possible exchanges, and has slowed down the economic and cultural development of the South Atlantic. The lack of relations between the two areas is inconceivable in today’s world. Argentina is proud of its great cultural diversity. Since the birth of our nation, our laws have preserved and guaranteed such cultural heritage. Our national Constitution establishes the objective of recovering the Malvinas Islands and the full exercise of sovereignty, and ensures respect for its inhabitants’ way of life. The only thing lacking is the will to start a new phase together. Argentina is firmly convinced that a new era should begin in the South Atlantic, as an area free from tensions — a place where different cultures committed to humanistic ideals and with a common wish for progress and well-being may come together. What in the past has been a negative factor in our relations should become a positive factor and a starting point for a new relationship. My country has shown its vocation for constructive participation in the areas created by the international system, fostering tolerance and preserving peace. In that respect, we avidly support all efforts to resolve situations 14 of serious instability and conflict still existing in various parts of the world. In the Middle East, we welcome the progress made in the peace process, especially regarding the question of Palestine. We add our voice to those calling for the parties involved to maximize their efforts to achieve a just, lasting and comprehensive peace. We renew our offer of full cooperation to contribute to the attainment of that objective. The peace process, fostered by this General Assembly, has borne fruits that should not go to waste. United Nations peacekeeping operations are one of the most effective tools for preventing violence around the world. This explains our full support for peace missions. We have responded promptly and unconditionally to requests of the Security Council, agreeing to participate in operations in our hemisphere and in various other parts of the world by providing large amounts of financial resources. We deem it vital to ensure an orderly transition between peace-keeping operations and the work of reconstruction aimed at reversing the economic, political and social damage caused by conflicts and to offer effective humanitarian assistance so as to reduce the suffering of the populations affected. With the objective of complementing United Nations emergency humanitarian assistance, Argentina, inspired by President Carlos Saul Menem, proposed the “White Helmets” initiative. The effective deployment of the “White Helmets” in many humanitarian assistance operations is already proving their political and technical viability. The United Nations is called upon to play a significant role in the international system of the twenty-first century. Everything indicates that this system will be marked by growing globalization and that problems such as poverty, unemployment, corruption and the lack of education can be more effectively dealt with at a global level. For the United Nations to respond effectively to this increasingly broad and complex mandate, it will be imperative for Member States to renew their political commitment to the organization’s political future. At the same time, it will be necessary to strengthen the United Nations through the in-depth streamlining and reform process that has already begun. With respect to the Security Council, we continue to favour a mechanism that, without affecting its efficiency, reflects new realities, of which Argentina is an active part, and ensures the participation of those who have clearly demonstrated their commitment to and respect for the purposes and principles of the Charter. It is equally important to ensure that the working methods of the Council guarantee transparency in the debates and in decision-making processes. Only in this way will the Organization become a special forum for nations to channel their resources effectively and successfully face the challenges of a globalized world.  ﻿Let me begin by conveying to the President my warmest congratulations on his election as President of this session of the General Assembly, which is 12 recognition, not just of his personal qualities, but also of the leading role Malaysia is called on to play in a part of the world that is characterized by the rapid pace of its economic development and where we are engaging in joint efforts as members of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council. My country wishes to express its recognition of the spirit of rationality and moderation that has marked the way in which the President has discharged his duties in this period of restructuring as part of the complex task of maintaining peace as the essential prerequisite for ensuring a more just world free from discrimination of any kind and aberrant xenophobia. As this is the moment of truth for the United Nations, we wish to express our hope that the work he has done in guiding this Organization so far will continue so as to consolidate the restructuring process. In the face of the two options that exist for resolving the constant and recurrent crises that afflict the world — law and justice on the one hand, force and violence on the other — Mexico has always opted for the former. We are here not to engage in a mere ritual act, but to reiterate our full commitment to this common effort that we initiated half a century ago. This commitment has to be renewed every day, because peace and security are not free gifts bestowed once and for all, but values that have to be conquered and maintained from day to day. A year ago, the world’s leaders came together in this forum to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization. They reaffirmed the validity of the principles and purposes embodied in the Charter of the United Nations and agreed on new parameters for our collective activity. The complex effort made in 1996 to ensure a proper follow-up to them must continue to be our target for the coming year. Although not with the forcefulness and clarity that would be justified by current law and demanded by the international community, the International Court of Justice recognized, in an Advisory Opinion of July this year, that the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons run counter to international law. The Court also emphasized that “there exists an obligation on all States to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control.” The General Assembly must give immediate effect to this by urging the initiation of negotiations on the subject in the Conference on Disarmament. While we welcome this ruling, we do not agree with another assertion of the Court within the Opinion that the threat or use of nuclear weapons could be legal in the extreme circumstance of self-defence. The Treaty of Tlatelolco, which Mexico promoted and for which it acts as depositary, was the first legal instrument specifically to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in a densely populated region. Mexico will continue to encourage the strengthening of the regime established by this Treaty, which has undoubtedly served as a precedent for other treaties establishing nuclear-weapon- free zones throughout the world. Mexico welcomes the recent addition of the new South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone to those already existing in the South Pacific and in Africa. We hope that we shall soon be able to add another nuclear- weapon-free zone in the Middle East, which would undoubtedly help to promote détente in that area. We firmly support Brazil’s initiative to proclaim the southern hemisphere of our planet a nuclear-weapon-free zone. On 24 September, just a few days ago, Mexico signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). Despite the fact that its structure is not entirely satisfactory, particularly with respect to its entry into force, we signed it because we believe that it is a vital step in a programme of action for the complete elimination of nuclear weapons, the ultimate objective of our efforts in this connection. Mexico and 27 other countries members of the Conference on Disarmament have already submitted a draft programme that we hope can be considered as soon as possible. If we make enough progress in this direction, it might even be possible to overcome one of the main obstacles to the entry into force of the CTBT, which is currently being hindered by those obstacles mentioned earlier. Meanwhile, until the Treaty — on which we worked for almost two years of negotiations — comes into force, we urge all countries to guide their actions in accordance with its text, even before its formal entry into force. It is a matter of great concern that the two Powers acknowledged to possess chemical weapons have postponed ratification of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction, 13 which took us 20 years to negotiate and requires only two more ratifications to enter fully into force. We shall be initiating consultations with a view to submitting a draft resolution on this subject. We urge the United States Congress and the Russian Federation to ratify the Convention as soon as possible. Also on the subject of disarmament, we wish to draw attention to the fact that the President of Mexico, Mr. Ernesto Zedillo, recently made two proposals at the Rio Group summit in Cochabamba, Bolivia. The first concerned the need to adopt a convention against the illegal arms trade, which relates directly to the struggle in which we are all engaged against drug trafficking, crime and terrorism. The second concerned the desirability of adopting measures for the control of conventional offensive weapons in Latin America with a view to avoiding arms races that would divert resources essential to our economic development. We welcome the Canadian initiative, to which Mexico gives its unreserved support, regarding the initiation of consultations with a view to securing, as speedily as possible, a total ban on the deployment, transfer, production and stockpiling of anti-personnel landmines. We believe the matter to be both important and urgent. Accordingly, we propose that this Assembly consider this issue in that light. It is precisely because we do not see peace as the mere absence of war that we believe that international peace and security must be embodied in development and equity. Peace is inseparable from development; security is inseparable from prosperity. If we sow today for development, we shall reap the peace, security and international harmony that must mark the world of the next millennium. Accordingly, Mexico enthusiastically supports the work of the United Nations and its specialized agencies on economic and social issues and, in particular, the adoption of an agenda for development as the basis of its efforts to eradicate poverty. That is why we view with growing concern the fact that, in supposed support of freedom and democracy, action is being taken in the opposite direction through the adoption of laws in the field of trade — the nerve centre of contemporary progress — that are extraterritorial in scope and in complete disagreement with the fundamental principles of international law. I would draw the Assembly’s attention to the opinion of the Inter-American Juridical Committee of the Organization of American States, distributed in document A/51/394, on the subject of the so-called Helms-Burton Act. It argues convincingly that this Act is not in keeping with international law. It is neither by means of blockades or exclusions, nor by the application of sanctions on third countries that democracy and human rights can be promoted. Dialogue, inclusion in multilateral forums, trade, investment and the exchange of information and persons have always proven to be the best way to disseminate the values we all share. Drug trafficking has attained unprecedented levels worldwide, to the point where it has become one of the most serious threats to the integrity of societies and the very security of nations. Despite the vast resources directed by Governments towards combating illicit drugs, the power of the drug traffickers is increasing, as is the number of victims claimed by drug addiction and the collateral damage caused to the social environment and the economy. There is an urgent need to draw up and put into effect measures and strategies which, on the basis of international cooperation and shared responsibility, will make it possible to launch a comprehensive attack on this phenomenon and to do away with partial and subjective evaluations in rating the level of compliance of each Government in combating drug trafficking, or, still worse, in making use of this rating as a political weapon and pressure tactic. We trust that, in the course of this session, the General Assembly will take a fundamental step to intensify the fight against drug trafficking by convening in 1998, on the recommendation of the Economic and Social Council, a special session to assess the state of international cooperation in combating the production, sale, demand, trafficking and unlawful distribution of narcotics, psychotropic substances and related activities. Once the draft resolution on this issue is adopted, we shall have to get down to the task of preparing an appropriate agenda for that special session, incorporating the specific ideas put forward in the Economic and Social Council and in this Assembly. In this connection, the statement made on 23 September by the President of Colombia, Dr. Ernesto Samper Pizano, is of special interest. Mexico recognizes and scrupulously respects the sovereign right of every nation to determine the rules and conditions for the admission of foreign workers to its territory. Nevertheless, the situation of our nationals in foreign countries has become a source of legitimate concern to all sectors of society in my country in response to the emergence of disturbing outbreaks of racism and xenophobia in some countries to which 14 migratory flows are directed. We firmly reject all actions or omissions on the part of national and local authorities in the recipient countries that may contribute to creating or exacerbating an atmosphere of violence and intolerance against such workers and their families. In our view, the mere existence of such a climate runs counter to the basic assumption of respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all. Mexico believes that this complex problem must be approached in a way that goes beyond mere measures of repression and humiliation, but is rather comprehensive, objective, broad in scope and responsive to regional and subregional characteristics. My country is convinced that the early entry into force of the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families is certain to constitute an appropriate framework for the protection of the rights of millions of people who emigrate in search of better living conditions. Moreover, we believe that it is necessary to draw up, as part of the effort to protect the human rights of migrants, minimum rules that will protect them in any recipient country, regardless of their legal status and of the protection afforded them by the laws of the country to which they emigrate. We shall be submitting proposals in this regard at the next session of the Commission on Human Rights. Meanwhile, Mexico has been making a major effort to improve the treatment and protection of the migrants entering our territory across the southern border. Moreover, the Mexican Government has recently taken a decision to regularize the migratory status of more than 30,000 refugees, most of them Guatemalan, who have settled in camps in the States of Campeche and Quintana Roo under the auspices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. In a joint effort with all the countries of Central America — including Belize and Panama — and the United States and Canada, Mexico has embarked on a campaign to combat and punish illegal trafficking in persons, which has now taken on the attributes of international organized crime. We are also working to pass legislation at the congressional level to increase the penalties and lengthen the sentences for those found guilty of this illegal trafficking. As the Heads of State and Government of the so- called Group of 16, of which Mexico is a member, indicated on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, it is vital that we strengthen the multilateral approach to solving the problems that affect the community as a whole. We view with particular concern the lack of substantive progress in the various working groups responsible for examining the main aspects of the reform of the Organization, and for this reason we should like to propose that efforts be concentrated in the following areas. The capacity of the United Nations to prevent conflicts and resolve those that already exist must be enhanced. This would include, among other actions, breaking the deadlock in the reform of the Security Council, whose primary responsibility is the maintenance of international peace and security. Secondly, measures should be taken to strengthen the mechanisms for resolving conflicts and disputes by peaceful means through a convention on the subject. And, finally, the role of the Secretary-General in conflict prevention should be strengthened. An example of what action by the Secretary-General can achieve is the important agreement signed in Mexico City on 19 September between the Government of Guatemala and the general command of the Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca, which will make a significant contribution to the attainment of lasting peace in that country, and in which the Secretary-General and a group of friends, including Mexico, participated. From this rostrum I wish to pay tribute to the work of the Moderator, which was essential to the signing of six substantive agreements in the Guatemalan process. Now we are awaiting only the signing of a few operational agreements, which will lead to the early establishment of a lasting peace in that country. With regard to the reform of the Security Council, Mexico considers it essential that in evaluating the proposals before us, account should be taken of the need for that organ’s composition to reflect the increase in the membership of the Organization, while strictly respecting the wishes of the countries of each region and the principle of equitable geographical representation. The United Nations must also strengthen its activities in the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, again on the basis of the contractual obligations entered into by each State, and in eliminating any vestiges of colonialism or of discrimination on grounds of sex, religion, race or political conviction. One of the most urgent and complex issues of the reform process is that of revising the financing system and the criteria for establishing the contributions of Member States. But let us be frank: the financial crisis 15 the United Nations is experiencing stems primarily from the lack of timely payment of assessed contributions by a considerable number of countries. This situation must be normalized as speedily as possible. The maintenance of international peace and security continues to be the primary mission of the United Nations. Barely seven years ago, a sigh of relief marked the ending of the long night of the cold war. Hopes were reborn that, with peace strengthened, confidence in the United Nations would grow, the ambitions of dominance on the part of the economically and militarily powerful countries would cease, and a spirit of tolerance and harmony, of equity and mutual assistance — indispensable for the building of a better world — would soon develop. There was talk of “peace dividends”. The reality has been more complex. Mexico expresses its dismay at the violent incidents that have occurred recently in the Middle East and joins the appeal of the international community to all parties concerned to refrain from undertaking any actions that could worsen the situation and provoke further clashes. Such incidents constitute a dramatic reminder of the need for the parties to redouble their efforts with a view to advancing the peace process and ensuring that dialogue and reason prevail in the region. Despite the magnitude of the obstacles that have to be overcome in order to ensure that human beings are educated for peace, Mexico maintains a profound faith in the United Nations, whose structures must be strengthened if we truly wish to give it the necessary capacity to discharge the complex and lofty tasks entrusted to it half a century ago, as well as those additional tasks it is charged with almost daily. With renewed optimism, we trust that human beings still possess the resourcefulness and talent required to make this world a worthy and just abode for all.  ﻿First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on behalf of my delegation, upon your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. Your selection is not only a recognition of the contributions of your country, Malaysia, in the defence of the ideals of the United Nations but is also a confirmation of your talents as an experienced diplomat. Allow me also to express my thanks to your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his masterful guidance of the historic commemorative session of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. I would like to pay once again a well-deserved tribute to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to reiterate our support for his constant efforts on behalf of peace and development. May I also transmit to our Assembly the message of hope and the wishes for success of the President of the Republic of Chad, General Idriss Deby. The life of a nation is often stamped by events written in golden letters in the great book of their history. 1996 is going to be one of those pivotal years along the road to democracy in Chad. Indeed, at preceding sessions, Chadian delegations regularly informed our Assembly of the substantial progress achieved in this area. I can affirm to you today that the process is ongoing, is getting stronger and becoming day by day an irreversible reality. I offer as proof the two major elections that took place peacefully and quietly. First, last March, the people of Chad gained a Constitution that then gave them the opportunity to elect freely and democratically for the first time in their history, with direct universal suffrage, a President of the Republic from among 15 candidates. Yes, after two hard- fought rounds of voting the people of Chad chose President Idriss Deby, who was officially inaugurated as President of the Republic of Chad on 8 August 1996 for a term of five years. Nonetheless, the process is still under way. Before the end of the year the people of Chad will be called upon to elect their representatives to the future national assembly. The parliamentary election will bring to a close the first phase in the establishment of the institutions called for by the Constitution. Numerous international observers were present in our country during the elections. They observed that the elections took place properly and that the Chadians showed discipline and political maturity. The organization of the elections would not have been possible without the contributions of Chad’s traditional friends, most notably, France, the United Nations system and international and non-governmental organizations. This contribution supplemented the efforts of the Government of Chad itself, which, despite its serious economic and financial constraints, assumed a part of the financing of the operations. Here we wish to thank all those whose multifaceted support and assistance made it possible to achieve these happy results. I take this opportunity to again appeal urgently to the international community to support Chad in the organization of future elections, in particular the legislative elections scheduled for next December. 4 It is often said that there can be no lasting economic development without democracy. The latter, as we all know, is a long, evolving process. Thus, slowly, patiently, at its own pace and in the light of its own realities, Chad is providing itself with the democratic institutions that must support its socio-economic development efforts, which is the highest priority of the programme of action of the Government of Chad. Thus, like a host of other countries, Chad has developed, in collaboration with the Bretton Woods institutions, a structural adjustment programme. It has also just negotiated and concluded with the Paris Club of Industrial Country Creditors a partial deferment and rescheduling of its public debt. These actions are designed to control Government expenditure and ultimately to reduce the current budget deficit. The main goal is to arrive at a surplus which would allow Chad to build the basic infrastructures which are essential to the promotion and development of economic activities. The Government of Chad is also re-energizing its private sector, which generates employment, privatizing State enterprises and vigorously reforming tax-collection services and economic development programmes. Another concern of my Government is the constant quest for peace and security. As the Assembly knows, war has stalked my country for more than two decades, which has completely undermined its structures. This is why we must work to restore peace and security, which inevitably involves regaining control of the army. I can affirm to the Assembly that efforts have been made and are continuing to this end. Thanks to friendly countries and the World Bank, more than 21,000 soldiers have been demobilized, an operation which will continue. However, our demobilization efforts will be in vain if this means putting out onto the street men who know how to handle weapons and are capable of causing unrest and insecurity. This is why a programme to reintegrate them into society must be implemented immediately. Only then will the reform programme succeed and ensure that we have a disciplined army, a true melting pot of the nation, at the service of development: this is our ambition. The aftermath of war must be overcome, and at the top of our list of priorities is to de-mine an area equivalent to one quarter of our national territory. The mines planted during the occupation of part of our country continue indiscriminately to kill and mutilate civilians, women and children in particular. This is an alarming situation because it hinders any development programme in a region which, nonetheless, has enormous potential for mining and tourism. It goes without saying that national rehabilitation cannot succeed, once again, without the assistance of the international community. As far as my country is concerned, and despite the problems I have just mentioned, Chad is resolutely determined to work for sustainable socio-economic development. The people of Chad, in an atmosphere of peace and freedom, decided to unite for the sake of their own development. To this end, we would like to see increasing external assistance, so designed to help us to reach the point where we no longer need such assistance. Help us to develop, so that we do not become too great a burden on the countries represented here. That is our message to the developed countries. The international situation is also of concern to us. Chad is not alone in the world, and what happens in that world, even if it is beyond us and if matters are settled outside Chad, concerns us all the same. The rampant crises in various parts of the world raise the question of what became of the hopes that were raised by the end of the cold war. We in Africa applaud the progress towards restoring peace and security in countries such as Mozambique, Angola and Liberia. But these achievements have to be consolidated. We can do this if we mobilize ourselves and shoulder our responsibilities. We deplore the situation of latent war in Somalia and the Great Lakes region. Genuine efforts should be made by the international community; the parties involved also need to show political will to end their fratricidal confrontations. The challenge is the same in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement must be vigorously supported so that a permanent peace can be established in that part of the world. In the Middle East, the peace process which began with Israeli and Palestinian reconciliation seems to have been thrown into question in the light of events in recent weeks. We pay tribute to the very recent diplomatic initiatives to try and restore dialogue between the different parties, despite the lukewarm results. Chad exhorts them to respect their commitments to avoid a new flare-up in the region. My country fully endorses the numerous efforts made with regard to disarmament. Thus we welcomed with satisfaction the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone 5 Treaty signed in Cairo, the non-aggression pact in Central Africa signed in Yaoundé and the adoption here in New York of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which Chad signed this very morning. Similarly, faced with the horror caused by mines, those deadly devices, Chad welcomes the initiatives taken to eliminate them. Consequently, we are prepared to support any measure to that end. The 1990s will have been devoted to attempts to find global solutions to the serious economic, social and environmental problems facing part of humankind. Chad, as a Sahelian country, welcomes the entry into force of the Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa and hopes to see rapid implementation of its provisions. We also hope that the forthcoming World Food Summit will meet expectations in terms of food security and water management, issues which give rise to often deadly conflict. Moreover, we should meet the new challenges facing the world: drugs, organized crime, pandemics, terrorism and religious intolerance. Increased international cooperation seems essential if we are to eliminate these scourges which Governments cannot deal with individually. Here, I would like to congratulate the United Nations Children’s Fund for its actions on behalf of children, in particular its vaccination programmes, including the programme to eradicate poliomyelitis before the year 2000. We also encourage the World Health Organization to step up its efforts to contain and eliminate the modern pandemic, AIDS. The fiftieth anniversary of our Organization provided an opportunity for the international community to think about the future, reform and how to re-energize the United Nations. But, like all human activities, only by making all this a reality will our Organization be able to achieve the ideals of peace, security and well-being laid down in the Charter and to which our peoples aspire. I cannot conclude without joining with many preceding speakers in paying tribute to the immense work done over the last four years by our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. His action on all fronts, and the availability, willingness and courage of the Secretary- General have enabled our Organization to foresee and resolve many conflicts. In that connection, I want to make it very clear that our country, Chad, will support the Secretary-General without reservation.  ﻿It is a pleasure and an honour for me to address this Assembly. From this lofty rostrum, the nations of the world speak to one another as members of one global community, irrespective of size and differences. The United Nations is today the best hope for a better future for humankind. What we do here must therefore contribute positively and effectively towards the achievement of the noble purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of our Organization. Permit me, Sir, on behalf of the delegation of Uganda, to express how pleased we are at your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. Your well-deserved election is a great honour to your country, Malaysia, with which Uganda enjoys very cordial bilateral relations. I wish to pledge our full support to you, Sir, and to affirm our confidence in your ability to guide our deliberations to a successful conclusion. Allow me also to pay a special tribute to your predecessor, Ambassador Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for the able manner in which he presided over the work of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I salute our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, for his commitment and dedication to the global mission of the United Nations during the past five years. The United Nations continues to be confronted with the challenge of redressing the development disparities that exist among nations, particularly between the few rich countries and the majority of impoverished ones. For 9 the latter, these disparities are manifest in widespread poverty and the degradation of their ecosystems. They are also a major cause of the spiral of violence and internal conflicts, with their attendant suffering and destruction. In an increasingly interdependent world, these problems have regional as well as global consequences. It would therefore be wishful thinking to treat them as if they were a concern of only the affected countries and regions. They must be addressed through global approaches and strategies that ensure lasting solutions. We note that present advances in transport, communications and information technology have resulted in the increasing globalization of the world economy. Both liberalization and globalization offer opportunities as well as challenges within and among nations. These twin phenomena have, in addition, deepened the marginalization of some regions, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. This process could breed further polarization within countries, with very destructive and destabilizing consequences. We wish to underscore the continuing relevance of multilateralism and international cooperation as prerequisites for equitable global growth and development and for addressing the negative consequences of globalization. The increasing trend towards unfair trading practices and conflicts in international trade is a matter of serious concern for us. We are witnessing situations in which developing countries are pushed to open up their markets, ostensibly to advance free trade and competition, while at the same time developed countries practice managed trade and limit access to some export products from developing countries. This contradiction is unhealthy for the world economy. The establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1994 as an entity to act as a custodian and guarantor of a rules-based multilateral trading system is a positive development. We therefore welcome the convening of the first Ministerial Meeting of the World Trade Organization in Singapore in December 1996. The Meeting should, in our opinion, give a clear policy direction to the WTO for the next two years on measures to redress imbalances existing in the present multilateral trading system, which are to the disadvantage of many developing countries, particularly the least developed ones. The Meeting should therefore give high priority to undertaking a comprehensive review of the implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements, with a view to adopting specific and concrete measures to obviate adverse effects to the least developed countries and net food-importing developing countries arising from the implementation of the agreements; reverse the marginalization of the least developed countries; and strengthen their capacity to compete in the global economy. These measures must include long-term financial and technical support, the transfer of technology as critical elements for the effective implementation of the Uruguay agreements and in the improvement of the trade performance of developing countries. With regard to the proposal that the Meeting address issues outside the WTO built-in agenda, we would prefer to benefit first from the analytical advice of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development on the policy implications of such issues to international trade before they are taken up by the WTO. In our view, the Meeting should focus on issues relating to the full implementation of agreed commitments, such as the provision of financial, technical and technological support to developing countries, as well as those aimed at stemming and reversing the distortive factors to trade. The increasing role of transnational corporations in the international trade in goods and services and in the flow of private capital has inordinately enhanced their control over resources and the transfer of technology and know-how in developing countries. In some cases, this control is beyond the capacity of many developing countries to check. As the influence of these corporations grows with globalization, there is an urgent need to elaborate and adopt an effective and legally-binding international code of conduct to regulate the activities and influence of transnational corporations. We are committed to subregional and regional cooperation and integration. Within the East African subregion, we have participated actively in the revival of East African cooperation, in the strengthening of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, and in intensifying efforts to make operational the Abuja Treaty establishing the African Economic Community. It is our belief that enhanced subregional and regional cooperation and integration are critical to complement South-South cooperation and international cooperation for development. It is also a means of enhancing 10 competitiveness and thereby improving our performance in the world economy. In efforts to further strengthen cooperation in East Africa, we propose the establishment of a cooperation arrangement between the East African Community and the United Nations. We appeal to the international community to support these efforts. The magnitude of debt and its servicing obligations continues to impose a serious obstacle to our development efforts. As of March 1996, for example, Uganda’s total external indebtedness stood at $3.2 billion — which represented 67.5 per cent of its gross domestic product — of which 75 per cent was owed to multilateral financial institutions. Debt-servicing was $141 million, or 27 per cent of export earnings. Projected debt-servicing for the 1996- 1997 fiscal year is $184 million, or 35.8 per cent of export earnings. This precarious situation is compounded by the current rigorous debt-repayment enforcement regime pursued by creditor multilateral financial institutions. Uganda is committed to fulfilling its debt obligations within the means available to it. In this regard, a multilateral debt fund has been established to offset the debt owed to the International Development Association, the International Monetary Fund and the African Development Bank’s African Development Fund. We are grateful to all bilateral donors who have continued to support and make direct contributions to the fund. We also appeal to other donors to join in this worthy endeavour in order to augment the resources of the fund, which are still very low. To complement these efforts, we make a special appeal to the international community, and particularly to the multilateral financial institutions, to adopt concrete measures to effect a drastic reduction of external indebtedness of least developed countries and other severely indebted developing countries. In this regard, we commend as a first step the debt relief initiatives currently in place, such as the Naples Terms. In our view, however, these measures remain grossly inadequate to have any meaningful impact. There is therefore a need to augment them with additional measures that substantially reduce all types of debts, including those which entail debt write-offs or converting part or all of our debt into grants. We note with appreciation the recent measures by the Bretton Woods institutions to put in place measures for debt relief. We urge the dominant shareholders to support these measures. African countries, including Uganda, continue to be adversely affected by record-low levels of export commodity earnings. The situation is aggravated by tariff and non-tariff barriers imposed by our trading partners on our semi-processed and processed export products and by declining terms of trade due to increased prices of imported manufactured goods and services. We urge the adoption of concrete support measures to improve our export earnings. This could include assistance in the areas of horizontal and vertical diversification of our economies, as well as capacity-building. Today is World Habitat Day. It is a day for the international community to reflect on and reaffirm its commitment to the plight of the one billion people in all parts of the world who lack adequate shelter and basic services, such as safe water supplies and sanitation facilities. It is also a day to dedicate ourselves to the objective of finding lasting solutions to the problems of homelessness and other social ills associated with rapid urbanization. The maintenance of international peace and security remains a formidable challenge for the United Nations. Efforts in this regard continue to be undermined by conflicts and tensions arising from inadequate political leadership that cannot correctly handle ethnic, religious and social differences in those affected areas. These have undermined the rule of law, peace and security, and have contributed to untold suffering in many of the affected countries. In Africa, civil strife and internal conflicts, with their attendant consequences, are afflicting several countries to varying degrees. For instance, we are gravely concerned by the suffering imposed on the people of northern Uganda by renegade groups. These terrorist acts must be stopped forthwith for the sake of peace and security in our subregion. The conflict in Burundi is a serious threat to the peace and security of that country as well as to the subregion. Uganda appeals to all the parties concerned to accept the mediation efforts of former President Julius Nyerere, which are aimed at achieving a peaceful political solution to the conflict through compromise and accommodation in the context of the Arusha initiative and peace process. In this regard, Uganda urges all the parties concerned to resume, as a matter of urgency, 11 unconditional political negotiations in order to establish peace and security for all Burundians. We are committed to working closely with other countries in the subregion to find a lasting political solution to the problems of Burundi through dialogue and national reconciliation. The steps taken by the Government of Rwanda towards the restoration of normalcy and achieving national reconciliation are steps in the right direction. These steps should be encouraged and supported, as they provide a basis for restoring mutual confidence and trust, which are critical for a peaceful return and reintegration of Rwandese refugees from neighbouring countries. We are concerned about the chaotic situation in Somalia and call for the reinvigoration of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) peace efforts. Common sense must prevail among the warring factions in Liberia so that the people of that unhappy country may be given a chance to enjoy peace, security and national reconciliation. We welcome the efforts of the Economic Community of West African States in this connection. With regard to Angola, we note that the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol is under way. We encourage both parties to stay the course. The efforts of the OAU and the Yamoussoukrou mediation efforts of President Bédié of Côte d’Ivoire to seek a peaceful solution to the conflict in Sierra Leone should be encouraged. Uganda supports the just struggle of the Sahraoui people for self-determination. To this end, we urge the speedy resolution of the conflict in Western Sahara, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly. Uganda supports the efforts of the United Nations and the appropriate regional organizations to diffuse conflicts through preventive diplomacy, as well as through the mechanisms of peacekeeping and peacemaking, including dialogue and confidence-building. In this regard, we reaffirm our support for the OAU Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution, as well as for its Central Organ. The Mechanism and the Central Organ should be supported and provided with the necessary resources to enable them to operate effectively. The idea of encouraging African Member States to put in place contingent arrangements for deployment in situations requiring peacekeeping or military observer missions in Africa has merit and deserves support. At the same time, humanitarian programmes with built-in mechanisms that address the continuum from emergency relief to rehabilitation, recovery and long-term development are essential to restoring lasting peace. We welcome the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. However, we urge the nuclear- weapon States to seize this opportunity to commit themselves to adopting concrete time- frames for the total elimination of all nuclear weapons, as well as to stopping the qualitative development and refinement of nuclear arsenals, including through computer simulation. Most African countries have embraced and are vigorously pursuing far-reaching political and economic reforms. In Uganda, we have implemented fundamental economic reforms consistent with our development priorities and strategies and the structural adjustment programmes of the Bretton Woods institutions. We have liberalized trade and created the necessary conditions for encouraging and promoting both domestic and foreign direct investment. We have improved our economic management systems, with strong emphasis on fiscal and monetary discipline. We have endeavoured to integrate and implement the outcome of the major international conferences into our national development plans and priorities. However, in order to nurture these positive developments and improve the well-being of our citizens, we need concerted cooperation and support from the international community by ensuring, among others, a favourable external economic environment. I am glad to state that Uganda is a nation restored both politically and economically. Allow me to outline briefly the measures that have been taken and which are responsible for peace, security and the other positive changes that prevail in Uganda today. These positive changes are the result of a policy of reconciliation. For us, reconciliation itself is a means to an end, the end being national unity. In pursuance of this objective, we instituted from the very beginning the principle of a broad-based Government which accommodated all shades of political opinion and ideologies. The pillar of the democratization process is 12 the nationwide political participation in decision-making at all levels, which has empowered people to take charge of their own governance. Uganda remains committed to the protection and promotion of human rights. A Human Rights Commission has been established to oversee the observance of human rights in Uganda. The Commission is complemented by a national human rights unit in the Ministry of Justice and similar units will be established in the near future at the district level. We have ensured that the promotion of human rights includes a component to redress the inequality of opportunities through affirmative action in favour of disadvantaged groups such as women, youths and the disabled. In this regard, the 1995 Constitution of Uganda provides for special representation in Parliament for these groups. We appreciate the support extended to us so far in this area and welcome further technical and financial support, especially towards the review and finalization of appropriate legislation and the strengthening of relevant human rights entities at various levels. Last year, a new Constitution was promulgated after more than a year of intense debate by a Constituent Assembly of directly-elected members. On 9 May 1996, the first-ever free and fair presidential elections were held, followed by parliamentary elections on 27 June 1996. Today, Uganda has its first-ever directly-elected President since independence in 1962. In Uganda, we share the view that decentralization is a necessary condition for good governance and empowerment because democracy cannot thrive unless space is given for civil society to operate. In pursuance of this, political decentralization is not only enshrined in the Constitution, but is already being implemented. Such a transfer of power to the districts and other lower tiers has removed the remoteness of government and ensured a speedier delivery of goods and services to the people. Years of war and economic mismanagement have left Uganda with a shattered economy. The present administration has continued to make steady progress in restoring the economy under the framework of the Economic Reform Programme. Inflation has been successfully controlled since June 1992 at the level of 5.6 per cent, on average. At the same time, Uganda has enjoyed a high average rate of economic growth of 8.1 per cent due to macroeconomic stability and strict monetary policies. In order to attract investments, an Investment Code was instituted to ensure a friendly and conducive investment environment. The Uganda Investment Authority was established as a one-stop centre for information. Uganda commends various initiatives taken by the United Nations to eradicate poverty. Special mention should be made of the World Social Summit, the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa. We commend this spirit of international partnership aimed at addressing persistent poverty in our region. For its part, the Government of Uganda has embarked on the long road of addressing the problem by ensuring that the fruits of economic growth reach the masses of the population. Among the strategies in place is an Action Plan for the Eradication of Poverty with a Poverty Task Force as its implementing agency. In the short and medium terms, the Action Plan focuses on increasing household income, primary education and road infrastructure. The political and economic achievements registered so far prove that a serious, visionary and committed Government can lead donor conditionalities rather than be led by them. We have just concluded the mid-term review of the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. For the satisfactory outcome of the meeting, we wish to thank most profoundly the Government of Japan and all delegations which participated actively in this exercise. One of the fundamental conclusions of the review is that a lot remains to be done to consolidate the modest political and socio-economic progress that has been achieved in some parts of the African continent. This will require the mobilization of substantial new and additional resources and, in particular, the provision of a conducive external economic environment. The review also demonstrated that a partnership based on shared responsibility and mutuality of interest is possible and inevitable. The United Nations remains a custodian of many cherished ideals, such as the primacy of democratic governance. The United Nations was born out of a yearning for a democratic multilateral system capable of addressing problems brought about by hideous tensions 13 and conflicts throughout the world, with a view to making planet Earth a more secure, just and friendly place for present and future generations. We all agree on the need to strengthen the United Nations so that it can carry out its global mandate effectively. We should therefore provide it with adequate resources. This commitment, invariably, calls upon each Member State to meet its financial obligations to the organization in full, on time and without conditions. Within the context of strengthening the Organization, measures should be adopted to achieve its democratization at all levels. Since there is a worldwide trend towards democratization, this Organization cannot remain unaffected by these winds of change. Uganda therefore supports proposals to restructure the Security Council in order to bring transparency to its working methods, democracy to its decision-making procedures and equity to reflect the increased membership of the United Nations. The United Nations remains, in our view, the appropriate central forum for addressing global problems confronting the international community. It must be strengthened, revitalized and democratized. This is the challenge that we the peoples of the United Nations must address as a matter of priority.  ﻿At the outset, allow me, Sir, to express my delegation’s congratulations upon your election to the high position of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. The Afghan trauma, which was imposed by others and endured by the Afghan people, continues to have disturbing consequences for our nation. For the world, it may be just another trouble spot. But for Afghans, it means agony, pain, loss, psychological trauma and an unknown future. We must not forget that there is still hope. It lies in the international connection between me and other representatives and, through them, to their countrymen. The United Nations was built on that dream and today, that connection is once again being made — it is the fifty-first connection. Two tragic dates will stand out in the recent history of Afghanistan: 27 December 1979 and 27 September 1996. Both were black days that trigger bitter memories in the minds of all patriotic Afghans. The first date reminds them of the occupation by the former Soviet Union and the second, of another occupying force, backed by another neighbour. The force occupying parts of our homeland today is known as the Taliban — a name that became very familiar to the General Assembly at the previous session. 3 What was the Taliban’s first act when it captured Kabul? It was to attack not a military garrison, but the United Nations office in Afghanistan. Its first act was to breach the sanctity of the United Nations compound, in violation of all accepted international norms and laws. That is the Taliban. As European Commissioner, Emma Bonino, said yesterday, the Taliban is a force that threatens to take Afghanistan back to the dark ages. Numerous international media reports from Kabul draw a picture of an organization supported from abroad, imposing a draconian system on a terrified people. The Taliban have ordered schools and universities to close and stopped all education and employment for women. There are numerous reports from the media, the United States authorities and the United Nations on the role of the Taliban in a $75 billion heroin export industry in Afghanistan. On 1 October 1996, The New York Times said that the 1 million people who live in Kabul alone had been plunged into the “labyrinth that is Taliban rule”. On 3 October 1996 the Reuters news agency said that, while the Taliban has tried to seek international recognition, it has been greeted with “suspicion — and fear”. In just their first week in Kabul, the Taliban earned the condemnation of Amnesty International. These are not the words of the Afghan Government describing the Taliban occupation — these are the words of Amnesty International: “Despite statements from their leadership suggesting moderation, it is clear that Taleban guards are busily implementing a reign of terror in Kabul ... Families are afraid to go out into the streets, afraid to answer their doors, and afraid that their loved ones will suffer the brutal consequence” of Taliban rule. Amnesty International accuses the Taliban of seizing, in house-to-house searches in the capital, up to 1,000 prisoners, who were forced to walk over the front- line minefields. French television showed the Taliban storming into the Kabul museum, where they destroyed many artifacts, relics and statues that were unique. Those artifacts and statues belonged to the Buddhist era and are irreplaceable. I am talking about the Taliban, which is overwhelmed by foreign-fomented hatred, mandated by a foreign-crafted agenda and committed to the annihilation of the political, social and economic fabric of Afghanistan. It is an organization whose display of terror in Kabul breaks all records. In short, the Taliban are mercenaries — an illegal and illegitimate force that has been imposed on the Afghan people. Once again, foreign interference is the main cause of the continued conflict in Afghanistan. The current state of terror and chaos, touching the lives of every living soul in Kabul, is the direct consequence of that interference. We have at our disposal hard evidence that we will submit in due course to the Security Council for appropriate consideration. What could prove that there is foreign interference better than the foreign militias, which include some officers, who were recently captured on the battlefield by the armed forces of the Islamic State of Afghanistan? The Islamic State of Afghanistan firmly believes that the so-called Taliban is a perfect example of a mercenary force as defined by the International Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries, adopted by the General Assembly in 1989. We are not denying the existence among the Taliban of Afghan youths who were raised across the border and attended religious schools there, but it cannot be stated too clearly that the main corps of the Taliban military staff consists of officers and militia forces from beyond our borders, paid by military-industrial magnates trying to overthrow the Islamic State of Afghanistan. The United Nations General Assembly, on 21 December 1995, adopted a resolution which condemned any State that permits or tolerates the recruitment, financing, training, assembly, transit and use of mercenaries with the objective of overthrowing the Government of any State Member of the United Nations, especially that of a developing country. The Charter of the United Nations, in various Articles, urges all Members to develop friendly relations among themselves and to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State. On the occasion of the commemoration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the United Nations on 24 October 1970, the General Assembly approved the 4 Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States. The first principle declares that States shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State, or in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations. The Seventh Islamic Summit Conference in Casablanca on 13 December 1994, the Conference of Heads of State and Government of the Non-Aligned Countries on 18 October of 1995 in Cartagena de Indias, the General Assembly resolution on Afghanistan of 19 December 1995 and the Twenty-third Islamic Conference of Foreign Minsters on 9 December 1995 held in Conakry, Guinea, all insist vigorously on the principle of non-intervention and respect for the territorial integrity and independence of Afghanistan and on a peace process based on genuine intra- Afghan dialogue. It is a matter of great disappointment that persistent appeals to the United Nations made by the Islamic State of Afghanistan to send a fact-finding mission to inquire into and investigate the level, degree and nature of foreign intervention in Afghanistan remain unanswered. Last year, we presented facts about the Taliban from this rostrum. Our plight went unheard. We are afraid, given the accounts of documented facts by the press and our clear stand on the legacy of the Taliban, that our plight might go unheard once more. That will be even more catastrophic than the Taliban take-over itself. The latest reports, as recent as yesterday, reveal some shocking realities and facts about the Taliban attacks on the areas surrounding Kabul, the capital. Allow me to unveil the screened and concealed crime that the Taliban, assisted by their outside sponsors, committed very recently. Exactly 26 days ago, on 11 September 1996, intelligence sources of the Defence Ministry of the Islamic State of Afghanistan intercepted and recorded a Taliban radio transmission between Nangarhar and Kandahar. That transmission says the following: “Give regards to the victorious Mullah Shukrullah ... Tell him that new APR weapons have already been brought to Kandahar. You should immediately send these arms, which are gas weapons, through Torkhan towards Nangarhar because we have organized a group of Taliban with special gear and are waiting for the said weapons. We can capture large areas with a single round.” On 17 September, just six days later, I personally took this report, submitted to me by the Ministry of Defence, and presented it to the State Supreme Council, convened under the leadership of Mr. Rabbani, the President of Afghanistan, in Blandage bunker, just north of Kabul, the capital. I still remember an overwhelming stillness occupied the room after I submitted the report. After a brief calmness, a member of the Council remarked that maybe the report had been passed around to demoralize State troops; hence, not enough attention was paid to the issue. Yesterday, we obtained a shocking — and I repeat, shocking — report from the headquarters of the Government in Taloqan, which reminded me of the Supreme Council meeting. Officials of the Islamic State of Afghanistan recorded radio conversations by the Taliban in the front line around evening on 26 September, the night before the Taliban take-over of Kabul. The following assurances were reported: “Reassure the leaders that the new weapons have had good results in Lata Band, Bande-Ghazi and Puli-Charkhi.” These areas, for the information of the representatives, are located to the east of Kabul, the capital. More staggering realities are provided by the eyewitness reports of those who saw the areas afterwards. These eyewitnesses have reported that they saw most of the corpses of the Government troops laying on the ground without any sign of injury from a bullet or arsenal penetration in their bodies. However, they did reveal that they had noticed that the Government troops had bled from their noses, eyes and ears. Mr. Muslim, a veteran commander of the Government, who witnessed similar situations during the Soviet occupation, has remarked that: “The Taliban advance in the front line completely surprised me. I then realized that the Taliban must be in possession of some kind of weapons more advanced than we had seen, possessed or known.” Mr. Muslim, the commander, continues: 5 “Chemical weapons hadn’t crossed my mind until the evening of 26 September during the Taliban’s fierce attack on Lata Band. I received a radio transmission that a large number of our men were being lost and even when I commanded the rest to retreat, I heard no reply. I contacted my headquarters. I was ordered to examine the front line. One hour had passed since my initial contact with the front line when I arrived there. Then I saw Commander Saboor, lying dead on the battle ground. I only noticed blood around his nose and ears. Saboor was a close friend of mine. Suddenly, I had a flashback of the Red Army using similar weapons during the jihad. I really wanted to take his body, which had no trace of external injury, back with me. But the intensity of fighting did not give me the chance.” Based on this account, it is the strong conviction of the Islamic State of Afghanistan that the foreign sponsors of the Taliban have provided them with some type of internationally banned gas or chemical weapon which were used in the Taliban onslaught for the capture of Kabul, the capital, where they encountered strong resistance. We are bringing this tragic episode to the attention of this Assembly and therefore appeal to the international community immediately to assign a team of inquiry to investigate the case to which I have referred. The Islamic State of Afghanistan has continuously provided information to the United Nations Special Mission and to the Security Council about the military acts of the Taliban, which have systematically refused to accept the United Nations peace process. In a letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations dated 5 September 1995 (S/1995/767), the Government of Afghanistan warned the international community about the dangers of the fragmentation and disintegration of Afghanistan and of the possibility of the Taliban military advances getting out of control. In the letter to the Secretary-General dated 14 September 1995, the Islamic State of Afghanistan forecasted “the outcome of this new tension as alarming and perilous” and earnestly called for the prompt dispatching “of a fact-finding mission to western Afghanistan in order to report during the consultations to the Security Council”. (S/1995/795, p. 2) The Secretary-General, in a letter dated 22 September 1995, assured that, “The United Nations remains committed to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan and opposed to all external interference in your country. I am using the mandates entrusted to me by the Member States to do all I can to resolve the sources of conflict which contribute to instability in Afghanistan. I shall continue to pursue a comprehensive approach to the overall peace process, in which the Special Mission will continue to play the main United Nations role. I ask that you continue to cooperate with it.” In a letter dated 27 September 1995 to the Secretary- General, the Islamic State of Afghanistan stated that, “Taliban not only undermined peace and tranquillity in the western parts of the country, but in the meantime, posed an external practical menace to the territorial integrity of Afghanistan.” (S/1995/823, annex, p. 3) and that, “the most reasonable and practical way to peace, and appropriate atmosphere for a peaceful transfer of power to an elected authority enjoying the confidence of the people, is first and foremost the need to ease off the present crisis of confidence'”. (ibid.) In the general debate of 4 October 1995, we declared that attempts by “reactionary groups to destabilize a moderate Islamic system which believes in democracy and human rights, are wrong in their assessments and calculations. Such foreign circles may think that after the usurpation of power by the Taliban all will go well for them. In fact, they will add a further problem, especially by bringing onto the scene a faction which has no factual presence on Afghanistan’s political scene. These circles should be aware that the peace and security in the capital, the actual relative peace and stability in the country 6 and in the region, would be jeopardized by such an erroneous miscalculation. The same error was made by the former Soviet Union in 1979.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 19th meeting, p. 10) As far as the activities of the United Nations Special Mission are concerned, we suggested, in a letter dated 30 September 1995, that the efforts of the Secretary-General “and those of Ambassador Mahmoud Mestiri, Head of the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan, would benefit from the establishment of a contact group on Afghanistan composed of States, but not the ones immediately involved, as well as of interested organizations.” (A/50/510, annex, p. 2) In a letter dated 12 October 1995, we warned that, “The different leaders of the Taliban have several times declared their rejection of the United Nations Special Mission’s action in proposing to them to accept a ceasefire. They have also rejected the proposals for peace talks with other parties to the conflict.” (S/1995/866, annex, p. 2) In a letter dated 12 November 1995, we informed the Secretary-General that, “On 11 November 1995, the Taliban launched as many as 170 rockets on the civilian-populated sectors of Kabul, as a result of which 37 innocent lives were lost and more than 52 civilians wounded, while immense damage was inflicted upon public property.” (A/50/748, annex, p. 2) This is why in a letter dated 16 November 1995 (A/50/760) addressed to the Secretary General, the Islamic State of Afghanistan inquired about the identity of the Taliban, their ideology and goals, their rejection of the peace process and their negative attitude towards the United Nations. As a result of the heavy bombardment of the capital by the Taliban on 26 November 1995, the Secretary- General expressed his concern about the escalation of fighting and called upon all parties to cooperate with the efforts of the United Nations Special Mission, then headed by Ambassador Mahmoud Mestiri, aimed at achieving an immediate ceasefire and promoting negotiations among the parties on a transitional mechanism for the transfer of power, to achieve a just and durable settlement acceptable to all Afghans. During 1996 Afghanistan continued to keep the United Nations well informed about the atrocities committed by the Taliban in a letter dated 19 January 1996 (S/1996/44). On 9 April 1996 the Security Council held two meetings on Afghanistan. During the meetings the delegation of the Islamic State of Afghanistan provided adequate information on the role of the so-called Taliban in causing turmoil in Afghanistan and threatening the peace and stability of the region. This was recognized by the Security Council in a statement to the press on 13 December 1995. In a letter dated 22 August 1996 addressed to the Secretary General, the President of the Security Council stated that the members of Security Council, “express their strong view that the warring parties should renounce the use of force and settle their differences by peaceful means, through negotiations. “The members of the Security Council are convinced that the main responsibility for finding a political solution to the conflict lies with the parties and that all States must refrain from interference.” (S/1996/683, first and second paragraphs) The Taliban have consistently taken a rejectionist attitude and still act against the letter and the spirit of all Security Council and General Assembly resolutions and decisions. Given this account, I must say that this is the time to look back and see who is responsible for the ongoing human tragedy in Afghanistan. Was it not the lack of any appropriate response by this Organization to the intransigent attitude of the Taliban that encouraged and enabled them to see the tunnel wide open and to pursue their designs crafted by military-industrial magnates from abroad? The Islamic State of Afghanistan had continuously warned the United Nations about the possible outcome. Who is to blame, and could we consider it a conspiracy of indifference or a conspiracy of victimization? Regardless of which one it may be, the blood of Afghans has been spilled. One thing manifested by the indifference 7 thus far is that Afghan blood is not cheap; rather, it is worthless. Let us go back to the drastic events that took place during the last couple of weeks. The Government forces evacuated the capital in order to prevent a bloodbath. The Taliban invaded Kabul on the morning of 27 September 1996. The Government authorities relocated their headquarters and offices in Taloqan, the capital of the northern province of Takhar. Resistance against the Taliban is not limited only to the Panjshir Valley, where the Taliban are conducting widespread and extensive battles, targeting civilian areas. In many other parts of Afghanistan, under the rule of the Taliban, there exists the potential for resistance. Soon we will hear about uprisings. In today’s circumstances, the objectives of the Islamic State of Afghanistan have not changed, and I would like to emphasize once again our firm commitment to General Assembly resolution 50/88 on Afghanistan, which was adopted by consensus on 19 December 1995. The provisional setback of one party in the conflict and the territorial gain of one side could not mean that peace would prevail in the country. Military occupation cannot bring about conflict resolution. On the contrary, the escalation of tension once again necessitates a negotiated settlement of the conflict through the mechanism formulated in operative paragraph 4 of resolution 50/88 B of 19 December 1995. This provides a solution to the crisis in Afghanistan through the United Nations peace process. A ranking United Nations official expressed his concern by stating in The Los Angeles Times of 5 October 1996, “It’s frightening [that] this is going to be the Government, because these men have obviously had no experience but fighting.” The Taliban, who have invaded the capital city of Kabul with cross-border military assistance, will not be able to ensure the national unity of Afghanistan, especially in the light of what they have done during the first days of their military rule in the capital. The Taliban, in spite of being Pashtuns, neither agree with the majority of Pashtuns of the country nor with Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras, Turkmen, Baluchis, Nooristanis and others. The Afghan leaders, intellectuals and scholars cannot agree with the regressive and backward views of the Taliban. Many religious leaders of the country do not approve of their attitude and deem it incompatible with the needs of Muslims in the modern world. They all consider them unacceptable tools of foreign intervention. The military rule of the Taliban must not be considered final or accomplished. Those foreign quarters which have provided financial and military assistance to the Taliban will not be able to subsidize and finance their rule permanently. The Taliban are lacking any vision or ability for the objective of economic and social rehabilitation in Afghanistan. They lack any coherent and systematic thinking or projection of the vast needs of today’s Afghanistan. Many of their leaders consider the teachings of modern science and technology contrary to religion. They consider science to be sacrilege. The Taliban, who still believe the earth is flat, are not the people for Afghanistan, not when we are about to enter the twenty- first century. Yet the outside sponsors of the Taliban are attempting to cover up their actual identity and nature, thus soliciting a kind of legitimacy for this illegitimate, obscurantist and terrorist group. Any relation established with the Taliban may be interpreted by the Taliban as tolerance by the international community. Allowing this to happen would be an affront to the principles of the United Nations, a seal of approval for terrorism, a legitimization of foreign intervention and, indeed, an insult to the human conscience. In the name of the Islamic State of Afghanistan and the victimized Afghan nation, I express gratitude to all those countries that have expressed their concern and disapproval of the occupation of the Afghan capital, Kabul, by the Taliban, and the rule of terror in that city. Days after the occupation of Kabul, on 2 October 1996, the Coordination Meeting of Foreign Ministers of the member States of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), at which I had the honour to speak, convened at the United Nations in New York. In a final communiqué, they expressed “the hope that the Afghan parties will peacefully resolve their political differences and collectively 8 work for the restoration of peace and stability in the country”. The practical solution to the Afghan problem needs to include the following elements, in conformity with General Assembly resolution 50/88 B of 19 December 1995 on the question of Afghanistan: first, an immediate cessation of armed conflict and the declaration of a ceasefire; secondly, an invitation to all Afghan parties to the negotiating table, under the auspices of the United Nations and with the cooperation of the OIC; thirdly, an agreement on the composition and establishment of a transitional Government of national unity and the creation of a credible, authoritative body to which power would immediately be transferred; and, fourthly, the consolidation of the political process in order to ascertain the views of the people and solve the problem through elections or through the convening of the traditional Grand Assembly. Our basic views and main objectives are as follows: the re-establishment of peace and stability, along with the creation of conditions conducive to ensuring that the peoples of Afghanistan can live, in an atmosphere of law and order, on the basis of democratic values and respect for human rights, as required by an authentic and truthful vision of high Islamic principles; and the establishment of a strong central Government on the basis of agreement among all Afghan sides that have the capacity to mobilize masses and are able to secure the achievement of these goals. This will allow Afghanistan to become once again a positive factor for peace and stability in the region to which it belongs. Only a transitional Government of national unity would be able to secure the national unity of the country and to allow the launching of the major task of reconstructing and rehabilitating Afghanistan. Such a goal could not be achieved without the full participation of the intellectuals, scientists, experts and technocrats of Afghanistan, many of whom now live abroad. We are expecting all countries that are in favour of peace and stability in Afghanistan to assist our people in order to achieve these noble objectives. Upon adopting the Charter of the United Nations 51 years ago in the city of San Francisco, the founding fathers of this global establishment declared the United Nations to be based on the sovereign equality of all States. They did this at a time when this principle was an ideal. The struggle for freedom by many nations, together with millions of sacrifices, on the one hand, and the need in the twentieth century for natural interdependence between the members of this global family, on the other, proved more than ever the righteousness of this principle. It is apropos in this connection to quote His Excellency Mr. Hervé de Charette, the Foreign Minister of France, who on 25 September stated from this rostrum: “If we are not careful, we are going to be living in a world without criteria, without values, without references, in which some — the strongest and richest — will be in a position to decide alone on the future of the planet.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Plenary Meetings, 8th meeting, p. 18)﻿Permit me at the outset, Sir, to extend warm congratulations to Mr. Razali on the confidence shown in him by the international community in electing him President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. I take this opportunity to extend my best wishes to him and to the other members of the Bureau for success in directing the meetings of this session and in all endeavours to strengthen our Organization and promote peace in our world. I also congratulate Mr. Razali’s friendly country, Malaysia. I also take this opportunity to express my thanks and appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Freitas do Amaral, and the former members of the Bureau for their effective stewardship of the fiftieth session. I also wish to express our gratitude to the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the dedicated efforts he has sincerely and honestly made to advance the Organization and to promote its humanitarian mission of settling disputes between States by peaceful means. In conformity with the decision of the League of Arab States, Jordan supports the extension of the Secretary-General’s mandate for another term, in order to enable him to pursue his mission and efforts in the service of international peace and security and the reforms he has initiated in the organs and Secretariat of the Organization. The role of the United Nations and its specialized agencies in the protection of international peace and security and in enhancing and directing the world economy towards liberalization and integration are among the main reasons for my country’s devotion to the Organization and adherence to its Charter. In view of this, and out of our sense of responsibility and concern for the efficiency and relevance of the Organization, we appeal to all Member States to continue to support it, to fulfil their obligations to it consistently and to work to resolve its financial crisis. I assert my country’s firm position on the need to implement the necessary administrative reforms and restructure the Security Council. The structure of the Council no longer reflects the current balance of power. Any expansion of the permanent membership of the Council should take into account the increase in the number of developing countries and the growing economic power of certain industrial nations, such as Germany and Japan. We have seen many plans and proposals on this matter which the Security Council should carefully consider, such as the Italian plan. A review of the veto power enjoyed by the permanent members should reflect the democracy and transparency we seek. In this context, I must emphasize the need to review the question of economic sanctions, which neither distinguish between a political entity and its innocent unarmed civilian population, nor provide compensation to third States adversely affected by such sanctions. We must work together to create a durable formula. We also call for opening the membership of the United Nations to all peace-loving States, as stipulated in Article 4.1 of the Charter. This international Organization has made worthy peacekeeping efforts in many countries. It has made human sacrifices that would be unfair and unwise to ignore. Jordan is very proud to have been among the first countries participating in the peacekeeping forces in the former Yugoslavia and elsewhere. In this regard, my country’s effective participation in the Implementation Force’s peacekeeping and peacemaking operation in Bosnia is noteworthy. 8 In this regard, the fraternal people of Bosnia must be congratulated on the Dayton Agreement and on the elections it has held. A special tribute should be paid to President Alija Izetbegovic´ for winning the presidential election. We are ready, along with other peace-loving countries, to help the people of Bosnia make the new democratic experiment a success, consolidate and rebuild the federal State and promote its reconstruction, development, sovereignty and stability. Before I move on to another international issue, I would like to congratulate the United Nations on opening the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty for signature. My country is proud to have been among the first countries to sponsor the draft resolution under which this Treaty was adopted and to have signed it. We hope that steps towards nuclear disarmament will continue and will encompass the Middle East region. We hope that negotiations will begin for the conclusion of a treaty in the very near future banning the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, nuclear and otherwise, so that a nuclear-weapon-free zone may be established in the Middle East. The peoples of our region have suffered the agonies of devastating wars over the past five decades, wars which have caused the deaths of tens of thousands, destroyed basic infrastructures and brought the people of our countries bloodshed, pain, deprivation, poverty and instability. Due to the allocation of resources to the war machine and the terrible arms race, their economies have gone into recession. Signs of hope, however, emerged for these people five years ago with the Madrid Peace Conference in October 1991 and the subsequent bilateral and multilateral negotiations between Arabs and Israelis. Palestinian hopes were revived with the 1993 Oslo agreement. The Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government Arrangements that followed restored happiness and hope to millions of Palestinians, who saw in that agreement the beginning of the end of their pain, bloodshed and destroyed economy. They were newly optimistic about securing their right to self-determination within their own State, rebuilding their national economy, industry and infrastructure, which had been destroyed by wars, and the onset of peaceful trade relations with their neighbours in Jordan, Israel and other countries of the region. Hope was also rekindled by the peace treaty concluded between Jordan and Israel in October 1994 and the resulting bilateral agreements on the establishment of diplomatic and economic relations, bilateral and regional cooperation, the reconstruction of the region and the establishment of strong trade and economic relations between the two countries, to the benefit of their peoples and other peoples in the region, opening the way to comprehensive regional cooperation. Concrete progress was also made on the Syrian- Israeli and Lebanese-Israeli peace tracks. There were prospects for a Syrian-Israeli agreement based on the “land-for-peace” principle, providing for full Israeli withdrawal from the Golan in return for a peace agreement ending the state of war and paving the way for peaceful relations based on strong foundations of understanding and normal, peaceful coexistence. Current events and negative factors and measures in the occupied Arab territories — a return to the settlement- building policy; the violation of the sanctity of the holy places; the closure of the territories; the denial of work opportunities; the refusal to implement the agreements signed on the Palestinian-Israeli track; the postponement and impediment of self-government negotiations; the unilateral determination of the status of Jerusalem and of the self-government negotiations; the refusal to resume negotiations, suspended seven months ago, with Syria and Lebanon; and the refusal to return to the terms of reference and framework of the Madrid Peace Conference — have given rise to frustration among the peoples of the region, who are beginning to lose the rekindled hope to which I have referred. Despite the excessively negative slogans against peace used by the new Israeli Government during the electoral campaign, we in Jordan — the King, the leadership and the people — welcomed the new Administration and the newly-elected Prime Minister out of respect for the free will of the Israeli people and non- interference in their internal affairs. We called for the continuation of the comprehensive peace process in the region and pledged to utilize the peace treaty with Israel to establish such a comprehensive peace. We urged our neighbours, Syria and Lebanon, to deal with the new realities and the new Israeli Government positively and realistically. Our motto and position at the Arab Summit Conference held at Cairo last June was a call to extend more time and opportunity to the new Israeli Government to return to the peace process on the bases agreed upon at the Madrid Peace Conference: the “land-for-peace” formula and the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). All the participants in the Madrid Peace Conference had believed that the success achieved on the Palestinian- Israeli track and the Jordanian-Israeli track had opened to 9 the peoples of the region, including the Israeli people, the door to a new life and a better future based on the principles of justice, peace for all, peaceful relations and trade. They had also believed that this success proved once again how misguided and wrong are obsolete principles such as that of achieving security through force and thus through the imposition of forced solutions. It also debunked the principle of occupying other people’s land by force to ensure one’s own security. Indeed, it has become clear that security can be ensured only through dialogue, peaceful coexistence, negotiations, mutual respect among peoples and free economic and trade relations, rather than through power politics and the imposition of forced solutions. Yet once again we are hearing certain nervous calls to revive the obsolete theory of security and the imposition of solutions by force. Amid the gloom that has begun to enshroud the peace process, there is still a ray of hope. It is up to us, both Arabs and Israelis, to keep it shining with a view to securing a better future for our children and our grandchildren. For if, God forbid, we allowed this hope to become lost, a renewed cycle of violence, instability, tension, terrorism and extremism would prevail in the region, as shown by the recent bloody violence. At the Cairo summit, all Arab Governments expressed for the first time their collective support and blessings for the peace process and proclaimed that peace is an irreversible strategic option. We have heard similar pledges from the new Israeli Government. It is our sincere hope that the United States and Russian co-sponsors of the peace process will intervene, and that international efforts will be made to put the peace process back on track, restore its previous vigour and impetus and put an end to all the obstacles that might impede or disrupt it. The war and destruction in the region and the peace process that followed it have been described as a series of missed opportunities; for in the past all of us have missed invaluable opportunities for peace. Now here we are again, about to return to that insane policy. By challenging the opponents of peace, President Arafat and the Palestinian leadership have demonstrated a serious and unambiguous desire to achieve a just, comprehensive and lasting peace. It is not wise to reward him by embarrassing him before the Palestinian people and placing him in an unenviable situation vis-à-vis the opponents of peace, who are betting on the failure of his policies and the failure of the peace process. Nor is it prudent to stipulate that Syria and Lebanon must return to the negotiating table without preconditions, as though the Madrid Conference and the painstaking and tough negotiations that followed had never taken place. Does this condition itself not constitute a precondition for the peace process? We all declared our intention to nurture the magnificent baby born at the Madrid Conference, whom we named “the peace process”. But then, we disagreed on the method to be followed in the baby’s upbringing. Let us return to working together, so as not to kill the baby in its cradle and along with it our peoples’ chances for the better life which shone on the horizon after decades of death and destruction. One of the most important factors for the credibility of the Middle East peace process is the improvement in the living conditions of the population through increased investment which has resulted in lowering the high unemployment rate. We in Jordan have taken numerous measures, enacted legislation and concluded agreements with a view to protecting and promoting investment. I regret that despite these reassuring measures and guarantees and the convening of two international economic summit conferences — in Casablanca in 1994 and in Amman in 1995 — the real outcome in terms of investment in the region has been disappointing. Apart from the increase in tourism that we noticed following the signing of the peace treaty, foreign industrial investment remains very low notwithstanding the many profitable projects put forward at the recent Amman economic conference. While private foreign companies may have an excuse for reluctance to invest, because of fears related to the regime’s history and political situation, the Governments of developed industrial countries have no excuse for their failure to provide their insurance companies with sufficient guarantees against investment risks to encourage companies to increase their investments. This is particularly true since the increased profitability of these companies’ investment projects and the resulting higher incomes in the recipient developing countries would benefit the economies of the developed industrial countries as well. In this regard, we have high hopes for the successful conclusion of the fourth economic summit, to be held in Cairo next November. This will provide another opportunity for foreign investors to contribute to the region’s development and to the consolidation of peace — quite apart from the benefits they and the economies of countries are bound to reap. 10 One of the region’s biggest and most complex problems is that of Palestinian refugees; its settlement has been deferred to the final status negotiations. It is regrettable that the international community has not yet given this important political and humanitarian problem the attention, understanding and assistance it deserves. Every year we receive the report of the Commissioner-General of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, in which he describes the Agency’s budget deficit and the consequent need to reduce the level of services provided to the refugees. We urge the wealthy industrial States to give this matter their fullest attention and to increase their contribution in order to ensure the survival of this temporary solution to the major humanitarian problems that affect over 3.5 million Palestinian refugees, including some 1.5 million who live in Jordan. The Government of Jordan, despite its limited resources, is compelled to provide assistance and relief worth approximately $300 million annually. It is necessary to provide support for the Agency’s budget to enable it to continue its work effectively, pending a final solution of the refugee problem on the basis of United Nations resolutions providing for their repatriation or compensation. As long as it remains without a substantive and effective solution, this problem will continue to constitute a time bomb — forgive me for using this term to indicate the magnitude of this problem — for the peace process, in view of its significant humanitarian and political dimensions. The subject of peace in the Middle East leads us to demand speedy implementation of the recent agreement between Iraq and the United Nations for a partial lifting of the embargo on the sale of Iraqi oil in order to provide food and medicine to the brotherly people of Iraq, who have suffered, and continue to suffer, from the economic sanctions imposed on Iraq. These sanctions have punished them but have not affected their leaders. We call upon the Government of Iraq to implement United Nations resolutions; respect the sovereignty, independence and freedom of neighbouring States; cooperate with the United Nations Special Commission; cooperate in the release of Kuwaiti prisoners of war held in Iraq; respect human rights; and establish a democratic system in which the rights of all its communities are respected. At the same time, we call for the lifting of the economic sanctions that are punishing the people of Iraq. We also call for respect for Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and non-interference in its internal affairs. We reject any attempts aimed at dividing Iraq, such as the recently proposed “safe areas” scheme. It is also our hope that the United Arab Emirates will be able to arrive at a peaceful solution enabling it to regain its three Gulf islands occupied by Iran. We call for non-interference in the internal affairs of Bahrain and extend our support to that sister country, at a time when it is the target of terrorism. We call upon Eritrea to find a peaceful solution to the question of its withdrawal from the Yemeni Huneish islands in response to Yemen’s peaceful efforts, in order to maintain good-neighbourly relations and in gratitude for Yemen’s assistance to Eritrea in attaining its independence and sovereignty. We call for a just and speedy solution to the Lockerbie problem, and for a positive response to the initiatives and efforts of the League of Arab States, the Organization of African Unity, the Non-Aligned Movement and the Organization of the Islamic Conference, which would ensure the trial and punishment of the perpetrators of that heinous terrorist act without punishing all the people of Libya. My country supports international efforts to combat international terrorism. Hence our active participation at the Sharm el-Sheikh summit, held earlier this year at the invitation of our sister country, the Arab Republic of Egypt, to explore the most effective means of international cooperation in this regard. We also support the decisions of the latest summit meeting of the Group of Seven industrial Powers aimed at fighting terrorism and punishing its perpetrators, as terrorism has become a dangerous international phenomenon that has taken the lives of many innocent people, destroyed the infrastructure of many countries, disrupted tourism and the free movement of innocent people and defamed national liberation and independence movements. We therefore support bilateral, regional and international cooperation to combat this ugly and destructive phenomenon. Today the world stands on the threshold of a new century, only three years away. That historic occasion must not pass without our pondering and studying the events of the twentieth century in preparation for the coming twenty-first century. We should benefit from the lessons we have learned and the events we have witnessed in order to make the next century a safer, more secure, stable and developed one for future generations. An idea worthy of exploration and careful examination in this regard is that of holding, at the outset of the new century, a special session of the General Assembly at the Heads of State level, to prepare for a new world order in whose shaping all States, large and small, developed and developing, would participate. This is only an idea which could be further elaborated and considered. As the representative of a developing country, it concerns me that despite the great progress achieved in the areas of disarmament and the resolution of global security problems, there has been no resolution of the problem of the economic security of the developing States. The gap between the developed and developing countries in the areas of income and technology is growing. Small developing countries will not be able to find solutions in the foreseeable future to their heavy burden of persistent indebtedness. It is both disastrous and painful that many developing countries, such as my country, Jordan, give their full efforts to consolidate and develop their democratic systems, orient their economies towards privatization, reform their economic systems, redress their budgetary and balance-of-payment deficits, fully cooperate with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and make concrete strides in this respect, and yet find themselves, after their people have devoted all their resources, capabilities and productivity to servicing and repaying their burdensome debts, still striving breathlessly to catch up with the developed countries, without hope of soon ridding themselves of this burden. Therefore, the shaping of and preparation for any new world order to be developed must consider the important question of the economic security of the developing countries. We now live in a world where distances between its various places and economic markets have been reduced due to tremendous technological strides in the areas of transport and communications. This means that the development and well-being of the developing countries is an important part of the solution to the recession in the developed countries. The idea of holding a special session of the General Assembly to prepare for a new world economic order could be the subject of a draft resolution which I hope will be brought before this Assembly for consideration.  ﻿Please allow me to congratulate the President and his country, Malaysia, on his election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. We hold his many contributions to the work of the United Nations in very high regard and we are convinced that his wisdom will guide this session of the General Assembly to a successful completion. I also take advantage of this occasion to thank Professor Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal for his wise and dignified leadership of the General Assembly at its jubilee fiftieth session. The first half-century of the United Nations has elapsed and the General Assembly is meeting at a time of great opportunities. Seldom has the United Nations enjoyed such a high level of freedom from friction in the relations among the major Powers of the world. Moreover, our time is also one of profound and promising change. Never before has the world been better equipped to seize the opportunities of economic and technological development for the benefit of all. The democratic transformation which has taken place in large parts of the world has substantially improved the quality of life and added important opportunities for a large part of the world’s population. However, very serious problems persist. Poverty and social disintegration, environmental degradation and new forms of threat to international peace and security are serious dangers to our common future. The fact that our world is no longer threatened by cold war rivalries offers little consolation if we think of the dangers which cast their shadows on our path towards the future. The unique opportunities of our time can be forfeited. Never before has the time been so precious and the need for effective global action so clear. The United Nations must be able to adjust so as to become more effective and more successful in addressing the challenges at hand. The essence of the principal task before the United Nations today can be captured in two words: adjustment and modernization. The compelling need to adjust and modernize the Organization should be guiding its activities, in particular those aiming at its reform. However, the United Nations experience of the reform efforts of the past year has not been entirely satisfactory. The progress of various working groups of 11 the General Assembly has been slow, a fact to be noted with concern. The present session of the General Assembly and its general debate should provide fresh incentives and energize the process of reform, which should proceed in a coherent and balanced manner. The process of downsizing the Secretariat, while being welcome and necessary, should become part of a wider change characterized by a clear definition of the priorities of the United Nations and by an adequate allocation of its human and material resources. Greater discipline must be achieved in the financing of the United Nations. This should be accompanied by a new, more balanced scale of assessments. Furthermore, innovative forms of financing should be devised, in particular in such domains as the protection of environment and sustainable development. Last but not least, there is, in several parts of the United Nations, a need for structural change. The necessary expansion and reform of the Security Council — which includes reasonable enlargement — is a case in point. It is obvious that the efforts at reform should go hand in hand with the implementation of the basic tasks of the United Nations. The preservation of international peace and security is the principal objective of the United Nations. One of the areas of implementation of this objective that is constantly gaining importance is cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations in the common efforts for world peace. We see possibilities in different parts of the world for the creation of durable security arrangements based on regional organizations and their cooperation with the United Nations. We shall continue to support the efforts for coordination and cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations through such methods as increased consultation, diplomatic support, mutual operational support and joint operations, in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations. In Europe, the role of such regional organizations as the European Union, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe is constantly growing. We welcome and support the growing complementarity and cooperation between these organizations and the United Nations. Disarmament continues to be among the most important areas in which the role of the United Nations is fundamental. It can be said that, in recent years, the United Nations has solidified its leading and coordinating role in this area. The agreement on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons achieved last year and the conclusion of the Chemical Weapons Convention are witness to that. Slovenia welcomes the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which we signed yesterday. Slovenia took an active approach from the very beginning to the CTBT negotiations. We deeply believe that only strict implementation of the Treaty can contribute to a safer world in the future. The interaction between the Conference on Disarmament and the relevant United Nations bodies has intensified. We should strive to improve further the disarmament machinery. In this context, we note with regret that the project of expansion of the membership of the Conference on Disarmament remains incomplete. We continue to believe that all States willing and able to contribute to international disarmament efforts should be enabled to participate in the Conference on Disarmament as full members. Slovenia wishes to be and is capable of being among the members of the Conference. Slovenia also supports activities of the international community needed to limit and eventually eliminate the use of inhumane and excessively injurious weapons — including anti-personnel landmines — and is ready to take an active part in these efforts. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the process of return to normality has started. Less than a year ago, Slovenia joined all the members of the international community in expressing appreciation to the United States of America and all others involved in the preparation of the Dayton Agreement. After many years of tragically futile exercises, the moment has come for a decisive step towards real peace in Bosnia and in the Balkans. The military action of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization gave credibility to the written word and created conditions for a comprehensive effort to rebuild Bosnia and Herzegovina economically, politically and socially. In Slovenia, we welcomed the holding of the presidential and parliamentarian elections which took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina 10 days ago as a positive step forward and as a substantial contribution to peace and stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Within the framework of post-conflict management of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is a growing need to ensure economic reconstruction and provide adequate economic aid. Slovenia is actively participating in the international efforts for the economic 12 reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina and still hosts many Bosnian refugees. Slovenia is a young country that obtained United Nations membership in May 1992. Over the past five years of independence, Slovenia achieved positive results in the process of political and economic transformation. Growing cooperation with its neighbours and in the region enabled Slovenia to reach a high degree of economic and political stability. We strongly believe that such a policy is to be observed as a contribution to the sustainable stability of the region. After a successful transformation, Slovenia is now ready to take its share of responsibility not only for regional arrangements, but also for international peace and stability. That is why Slovenia seeks to become a Security Council member for the 1998-1999 term: to participate actively in the Council’s central role in developing an effective system of global security at a time when the Security Council faces significant challenges to international peace and security. We firmly believe that Slovenia is able to meet all expectations and to work with other member States so as to make a full contribution to fulfilling the demanding tasks of the Security Council.   ﻿Once again, it is my honour as Secretary for External Affairs of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to address the General Assembly. First, I wish to thank the former President, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his enlightened and skilful leadership during the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. As always, we acclaim the tireless dedication of Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali who, throughout the time of our membership, has worked unceasingly to make the United Nations a more effective instrument for the betterment of our lives. The people of my country are particularly pleased that you, Mr. President, have been elected to lead this body during its crucial fifty-first Session. Last year we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and took stock of its accomplishments during the first half-century. Now we begin in earnest to apply the commitments we made towards the future of this Organization and the world. There may be no other single individual who has been as instrumental or as effective in leading the world community in recent years in the difficult search for common ground, particularly on issues relating to environmentally sustainable development. We are heartened by your past achievements and are thankful for your willingness to undertake an even greater commitment as our President during this session. This is a year of strong reflection for the people of the Federated States of Micronesia. Ten years have passed since we emerged from the United Nations trusteeship system, and five years since we took our place as a member of the United Nations. During these years we have worked hard to build our capacity to contribute, even as a remote small island State, to the advancement of our common goals. Despite severely limited resources, both in terms of personnel and finances, we have accorded high priority to our participation in United Nations activities and to meeting our financial commitments to this Organization. It remains our strong belief that this priority has not been misplaced. At the time we joined the United Nations the world’s attention was focusing on the global aspects of protection of the environment and on the necessary interrelationship between the environment and development. These were the subjects of the historic work at the Earth Summit in Rio in June 1992. Thanks in large part to you, Mr. President, that landmark United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) gave us Agenda 21 and its associated mechanisms. Since then, much has been accomplished through the work of many institutions and individuals, such as the Commission for Sustainable Development and the Under-Secretary- General for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development, Mr. Nitin Desai. We look forward to the special session of this body next year which will be held to review progress during the first five years following UNCED and to appraise the effectiveness of the institutions that have grown up around it. In the case of the Federated States of Micronesia, this movement was very well timed. Just as our internal process of development began in earnest, we received guidance from Agenda 21 as to sustainability and the integration of environmental protection and development. A short time later, at the Barbados Conference, which had been mandated by UNCED, we participated in analysing the barriers to development faced by all small island developing States. While we took encouragement from the international and regional aspects of Agenda 21 and the Barbados Programme of Action, we were also motivated to integrate the Rio and Barbados outcomes into our own national policies regarding development. Today our National Council on Sustainable Development, chaired by our Vice-President, plays a central role in the formation of my country’s development policies. Since last year my country has been assisted by the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Asian Development Bank in undertaking broad economic policy and governmental structural reforms with a view to strengthening the private sector and optimizing efficiency in the public sector. We are taking serious steps to downsize the public service workforce. At the same time, measures are being taken to raise Government revenues through tax-rate increases and support for the public sector. All of our public utility services, including telecommunications, are being commercialized, while a good number of our public-works services are being privatized. For a small island developing country such as the Federated States of Micronesia, the condition and productivity of our limited land areas, and of the seas that surround us, are key to our survival. Only in recent times have we, and others like us, come to realize the vulnerability and fragile nature of a world long taken for granted. It is in the nature of islands to regard our remoteness as our primary protection against all dangers. But the twentieth century has taught us how the land on which we live, and the resources of the sea on which we depend, can be destroyed as a consequence of events that take place far from our own shores. Thus, we are compelled to raise our voice against long-standing actions and practices throughout the world as well as within our own region. As long ago as 1972, Principle 21 of the Stockholm Declaration established that national sovereignty can no longer be asserted to justify actions that “cause damage to the environment of other States or of areas beyond (...) national jurisdiction.” (A/CONF.48/14/Rev.1, p. 5) The affirmative responsibility of States to ensure the avoidance of such damage is specifically reiterated in Principle 2 of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. That responsibility is now recognized as a doctrine of generally accepted international law. Yet today we look back on a year during which, at best, only mixed progress was made by the nations of the world in discontinuing or regulating activities harmful to the environment of others. Particularly in the region of the Pacific Islands, our broad expanses and our helpless populations continue to attract the interest of those who have dirty, dangerous business to conduct. With regard to climate change, our rising sea level and strengthening storm activity sound an ominous warning of a global situation that will engulf us if decisive action is not taken by the world community now. Yet, over the past year, the political will among nations to adopt concrete measures has appeared, if anything, to be diminishing in the face of self-interested and determined manipulation of the very processes that we seek to apply. It is not my purpose, however, to point with gloom to a glass half-empty, for we do take encouragement from the ongoing hard work of thousands worldwide to address a wide range of global security and environmental threats. We are greatly relieved at the abatement, for now, of the threat of nuclear war and by the cessation, finally, of nuclear-weapon testing. We hail the overwhelming majority of United Nations Members that supported the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). The Federated States of Micronesia took particular pride in standing with other sponsors of the recent resolution adopted by the General Assembly at its fiftieth session, because Pacific Islanders were among the first, and may yet prove to be the last actual, not potential, victims of one of history’s darkest periods. We congratulate the five nuclear Powers on their major role in achieving this milestone, and we call on all Members to join us in signing the Treaty, as I did here yesterday on behalf of my country. The CTBT is a major step towards the total elimination of all nuclear weapons. We hold that to be the ultimate objective and obligation of the international community and the global environment. Another difficult problem associated with the technology of mass destruction and with the nuclear age is the disposition of dangerous waste, by-products and castoffs, which themselves pose very real risks of mass calamity to those unfortunate enough to be caught in the path of accidents. We credit the honest intentions of those who insist upon carrying out movements of plutonium and other hazardous materials throughout our region to do so as carefully as they can. We accept and rely upon the word of those who have brought their hazardous materials to our region for destruction that they will conduct this activity only a little longer. We welcome the recent announcement by the United States administration of its opposition to plans to establish a nuclear-waste storage facility on Palmyra Atoll in our region. But experience has shown that good intentions are not always sufficient protection. We must also rely on global mechanisms such as the Basel and London Conventions, and on regional actions to establish zones of protection, such as under the Noumea Convention and the recently concluded Waigani Treaty. I emphasize that the progress made in all these areas is not lost on us. However, if our children and their children are to inherit a livable world, we must all somehow find a way now to take seriously the message of the Stockholm Declaration. We must face the hard fact that each time the preventive and precautionary principles 5 are placed on hold to allow some offending activity to continue “just a little longer,” the global resolve expressed at Rio and reflected in many actions since is seriously undermined. Glacial progress is better than no progress, but it is not enough where the stakes are literally apocalyptic. As much as we support the process of the Framework Convention on Climate Change, it appears that intensive negotiations are leading in the direction of elaborate compromises that might represent masterful diplomatic achievement, but fall far short of effectively addressing the Convention’s objective. Recently, at the second Conference of the Parties in Geneva, we witnessed a sorry spectacle in which a few delegations blocked the negotiators even from taking note of a critical and unanimous scientific finding, namely that “there is a discernible human influence on the global climate”. It fell to the ministers in attendance to make their own declaration recognizing the obvious importance of this and other findings in the second Assessment Report of the Interdepartmental Panel on Climate Change. When there exists this degree of helplessness on the part of a great majority to come to grips with a problem, even after the denial factor has been laid to rest, one begins to fear that we lack the capacity to save ourselves from ourselves. There is too little time remaining before the next Conference of the Parties in Kyoto, where it is anticipated that a protocol or other legal instrument will be adopted that sets specific targets and timetables for emissions reductions beyond the year 2000. That action will determine whether the Convention can indeed serve to address the threat of global climate change. Yet, at this point, the only specific suggested text, tabled by the Alliance of Small Island States, is regarded by some larger industrialized countries to be overreaching, even as a first step. The outlook is not encouraging. Thanks to the work of the IPCC in producing its landmark second Assessment Report, we now know that due to the inertia of the Earth’s climate system in adjusting to changed inputs, it is already too late to prevent significant loss of land areas and habitability due to sea- level rise during the upcoming century. We must therefore begin in earnest to contemplate measures to adapt to, and defend against, these consequences. In order to implement such measures, island countries will require the financial and technological support of the industrialized world. Without it, tens of millions of people on islands and in low- lying coastal areas throughout the world are certain to become homeless. No longer can the world afford to leave the development of adaptation measures on the back burner. We must begin to act now. As a nation covering over 1 million square miles of ocean, we place great importance on the sustainable use and management of marine resources within and adjacent to our territorial limits. We are pleased with the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which has provided us with a framework to deal with many important issues in this field. The resulting management mechanisms are of particular importance to those of us surrounded entirely by oceans. Other encouraging events have included the opening for signature of the Agreement on straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks in December 1995, and the election last month of 21 judges for the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. Furthermore, we note with great satisfaction the election in Kingston, Jamaica, of an esteemed Pacific Islander, Mr. Satya Nandan of Fiji, as the first Secretary-General of the International Seabed Authority. With his election and the subsequent actions of the Assembly of the Authority last month, the Authority is finally in place as called for in Part XI of the Convention. With a substantial percentage of the global mineral resources lying beneath the surface of the oceans, the International Seabed Authority has a crucial role in ensuring that the ocean environment is protected throughout the process of exploitation. In this connection, it is important for the General Assembly to provide adequate financial resources to the International Seabed Authority during this session, as it has done with other bodies, until States Parties can assume the responsibility next year. One of the great learning experiences we have had during our early years of United Nations membership has been appreciating the need for us all, collectively, to act, by example and with determination, to alleviate the suffering of people, wherever they are, who are denied their basic rights as human beings. The Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia reflects in its Declaration of Rights the standards ingrained in our culture over many centuries, and it has perhaps given us a certain sense of complacency in this area. But we have come to appreciate that the worldwide collective effort to confront human rights issues both strengthens our own society and affords us an opportunity to participate in helping others. 6 Despite the inevitable impact of increased contacts with modern Western society, the most important aspects and values of our traditional cultures remain strong, because they are appropriate to our circumstances. We continue to adhere to the concept of the extended family, for example, and many of the principles that are inherent in that system have long ensured a respect in our society for basic human rights. Changing times, however, inevitably challenge old traditions, and the maintenance of our traditional human rights standards becomes a process of adaptation to our increasingly mobile and homogeneous society, in which legal and governmental institutions must now also play a central role. Here we stand to benefit by involvement and participation in the international human rights movement, as was pointed out by our Vice-President in his address to the World Conference in Vienna several years ago. As we have studied the mechanisms and obligations of the various United Nations Treaties on human rights, we have entered into constructive internal debates. Children, for example, are among our most important treasures, and so we first acceded to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The preparation of our first report to that Convention was a thought-provoking exercise. Traditionally, women in island cultures have been treated with love and respect, but have not participated fully in public affairs. This is beginning to change. We recently sent a strong delegation to the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, and are actively considering accession to the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women. Overall, we realize that our own application of human rights standards must evolve progressively along with our society. The Federated States of Micronesia also accepts the responsibility of continuing to speak out, along with similarly committed States, on the need to challenge those Governments that still refuse to accord their own citizens the fundamental rights of human beings. It is a long and often discouraging process, but only with a strong, constant, collective voice can the international community maintain the progress being made in exposing and deterring abuses by the powerful against the unempowered. Much attention has been drawn in the past several years to the serious financial condition of the United Nations and the need to reform and restructure it. Some Members are so disheartened by the slow pace of this effort that they have lost their resolve to maintain their own financial commitments to the United Nations, making the problems worse and threatening the continued ability of this Organization to carry out its work. It is the view of the Federated States of Micronesia that while there may be inequities in the structure of assessments, Member States should address them while continuing to meet existing commitments that were established pursuant to agreed procedures. There will always be some level of disagreement over structures and the requirements of funding. But it would be a tragedy of historic proportions if the pursuit of the goals of the Charter were substantially hindered by Member States that feel that they can rightfully tailor their contributions to their own satisfaction according to how their particular demands are met. The fact is that, when we give due regard to the importance of our overall work here, this Organization, even without reform, is well worth its cost — especially when one considers the sums spent by nations on activities that do not contribute to international peace and development. There is no doubt that, as we begin the next half century of work, the capacity of this Organization is challenged by issues that seem to grow rapidly in number and complexity. But this is not a sign of failure, nor of a lack of capacity. Neither does it suggest that we need another instrument. It is, rather, an indication of the increasing interconnectedness of the global community and of the growing inclination among nations to find and recognize their common interests and to work together to advance those interests. In order to maintain and improve the responsiveness of the United Nations in a world in which it faces increasing demands, it is necessary that, on a continuing basis, we apply effective upgrades to the way we do our work here. Only in this way can we keep the Organization on a positive course, and faithfully translate the mandates of the Charter into terms of continuing relevance. This is the real meaning of reform. It is not a consequence of past inadequacy, but a positive evolutionary development. That is easily said, but as we all know, it is very difficult to put into practice. Even so we must not allow that high degree of difficulty to plunge us into frustration and defeat. The great achievements of those who have been here before us over the last 50 years must be honoured by our unshakable determination to take the United Nations into the next millennium as the single most effective multilateral instrument for the betterment of mankind. 7 I believe that this Assembly can and will accomplish much to add to the list of tangible achievements both for the direct benefit of the peoples of the world and for the improvement of this Organization itself. We have the history, the vision and the leadership. Moreover, the urgency is clearly seen by us all. Let us resolve to apply ourselves as never before, and to live up to the great potential that resides in this Hall.  ﻿It gives me great pleasure to begin my statement by congratulating Mr. Razali Ismail on his election to the office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty- first session. I am quite confident that his extensive experience and competence will definitely contribute to the successful outcome of this session. I should like to assure him that we are keen to cooperate with him and support his efforts to bring the proceedings of this session of the General Assembly to a successful conclusion. In recent weeks, Iraq has been the focus of worldwide attention and interest because of the American missile attacks to which it has been subjected and the intensive American military build-up that followed in preparation for a large-scale military aggression on the pretext that Iraq violated Security Council resolutions. I would like here to describe our views on these events. Iraq has acted in no way contrary to the Charter or Security Council resolutions or to justify an American military aggression against it. What Iraq did was to move its forces on its own territories and within its internationally recognized borders at the request of one of the main Iraqi Kurdish factions in order to repel a military aggression committed by another faction in alliance with a neighbouring foreign country. This action of the Iraqi Government falls within the sovereignty of Iraq over its own territories and in the context of its duty to defend its own people and repel any foreign aggression against them. This is a right guaranteed by all international covenants and laws. It is also a basic responsibility of the Government of any country. The operation was limited, swift and carried out without the loss of human lives. This has been attested to by all observers, including officials of United Nations agencies who were working in northern Iraq. T h i s operation put an end to the state of civil war, in-fighting, chaos and insecurity in northern Iraq and restored peace and stability to that region. The United States, however, tried to exploit these developments and to use them as a pretext to carry out missile attacks against Iraq and destroy a number of civilian installations, leaving many martyrs and wounded civilians in its wake. 20 The United States Administration was not satisfied with its military aggression against Iraq. The United States President openly announced, on 3 September 1996, his decision to expand the no-fly zone in southern Iraq, which had been imposed by the United States in 1992, from the 32nd parallel to the 33rd parallel. The imposition of no-fly zones in Iraqi airspace is a use of armed force in violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq. It was a unilateral decision that had nothing to do with the United Nations nor with Security Council resolutions on Iraq. This fact was confirmed by the official spokesman of the United Nations on 7 January 1993, when he said that the imposition of the no-fly zone in southern Iraq was not based on any Security Council resolution. The spokesman of the French Foreign Ministry announced on 2 September 1996 that: “There is no United Nations or the Security Council provision defining the basis for a no-fly zone north of the 36th parallel or south of the 32nd parallel. The decision to establish these zones is a quadrilateral decision by France, the United States, Britain and Turkey. There is no provision by the United Nations defining these zones.” As the Permanent Representative of Russia to the United Nations pointed out on 5 September 1996: “This no-fly zone, from its inception, was not based on any international legal foundation.” The Arab and world reaction to the aggressive actions of the United States has been one of rejection and condemnation. The whole world now knows that the imposition of the no-fly zones in Iraq is neither legitimate nor legal and constitutes an ongoing aggression against Iraq. It must cease. From the beginning, Iraq has been very clear in rejecting the so-called no-fly zones unilaterally imposed by America and some of its allies. America and Britain insisted on expanding this no-fly zone and claimed that its aim, as declared by the highest officials in the United States Administration, was to protect United States strategic interests in the region. I wonder: Is a State entitled forcibly to impose such a situation on another independent State, also a United Nations Member, on the pretext of protecting its strategic interests? Such acts would cause the law of the jungle to prevail in international relations over the law of the Charter. We demand that the United Nations, the General Assembly and the Security Council reject this logic — which is based neither on international legitimacy nor on the authorization of the Security Council itself — and relieve our country of this injustice. None of the allegations and pretexts put forward by the United States to justify its attacks and military build-up against Iraq have any justification in law, fact or legitimacy. They should be deplored and condemned. I would like here to express the gratitude of the people of Iraq for the Arab and world reaction to this aggression and the acts that followed, which were aimed at violating Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. No one here is unaware of the suffering of the Iraqi people as a result of the total blockade imposed on them, which has prevented them from satisfying their basic human needs for more than six years. Conditions in Iraq have reached such an extreme that it has become impossible for the United Nations to maintain the silence imposed on it by one party’s will, especially when humanitarian organizations and United Nations agencies have loudly warned of the serious consequences and harm of continuing the total blockade of Iraq. Infant mortality rates have soared for lack of food and medicine. Disease is rampant. The health, education and environmental sectors have deteriorated. There have also been major effects and regression in other humanitarian fields, in the growth and development of which Iraq had been a pioneer among third-world countries. However, the United States of America, which has been shedding crocodile tears over the humanitarian conditions of the Iraqi people and their need for food and medicine, stands today publicly and blatantly against the legal, balanced and proper implementation of the memorandum of understanding on the “oil for food” formula arrived at by Iraq and the United Nations Secretariat on 20 May 1995. While the professional and diplomatic dialogue between Iraq and the United Nations Secretariat managed to reach agreements satisfactory to both sides, the United States tried to put all kinds of hurdles in the way of the negotiations at each phase, with a view to delaying the finalization of the memorandum of understanding. Then it started to set up road blocks, hindering the actual implementation of the memorandum’s provisions in the framework of the sanctions committees and in the completion of the administrative arrangements needed for such implementation. 21 I would like here to provide some statistics to demonstrate the magnitude of the obstacles the United States threw up to the process of drafting the memorandum of understanding. It is well known that it took 50 working meetings to complete the memorandum — 50 working meetings — from 6 February to 20 May 1996. In the course of this process, the United States presented 29 amendments to the provisions of the memorandum agreed upon with the United Nations Secretariat during the negotiations. Although Security Council resolution 986 (1995) provides for accelerated procedures to implement agreements, it took 80 days to establish the said procedures. During this period, 28 informal meetings were held with experts from the French and German missions; there were five formal meetings, at which the procedures were supposed to have been quickly completed and adopted. The United States, however, delayed that adoption for three more weeks. The United States remains to this day the only party blocking the implementation of the memorandum of understanding, and it does so for political reasons that completely contradict its own allegations that the purpose of resolution 986 (1995) is purely humanitarian. Because of United States pressure and interference, the Secretary-General has so far been unable to implement the memorandum of understanding. This is evidenced by the fact that discussion on the implementation of a six-month plan to provide food and medicine to the Iraqi people has taken seven months. It is not yet complete because of continuous United States interference and derailing of the process to implement this memorandum. We believe that these acts should cease and that the United Nations Secretariat and Iraq should be allowed to implement the memorandum as soon as possible and without further interference. The Iraqi people want to be able to satisfy their own needs, using their own capabilities and financial means. They seek the lifting of restrictions whose sole aim is to starve them and wound their honour and pride. However, like the people of Iraq, a proud people more than 6,000 years old that has given birth to human civilizations, will not kneel before any threat nor surrender its sovereignty and pride to those whose only aim is hegemony over the wealth of peoples and things sacred to them. Iraq is only demanding its right — guaranteed by all international covenants and customs and Security Council resolutions — since all the obligations imposed on Iraq have been carried out and all the reasons for the imposition of these unjust sanctions have been removed. Iraq has fulfilled all its obligations under Security Council resolutions in spite of the injustice they involved. While these same resolutions place corresponding obligations on the Security Council, we have seen no movement by the Council to meet them. We feel, rather, that the Council has abdicated its powers of control and monitoring of the implementation of its resolutions. It assigned that task to the Special Commission (UNSCOM), which it entrusted with the implementation of section C of resolution 687 (1991) and gave sole responsibility to decide whether Iraq has carried out all its obligations and deserves to have the sanctions lifted. UNSCOM has been working throughout Iraq for nearly six years. It has sent 373 inspection teams, comprising a total of 3,754 international inspectors, in addition to its established staff located in Baghdad, which is made up of more than 90 officials. The Commission uses the most up-to-date scientific and technological means and methods, which should have enabled it to accomplish its mission and verify the results of its work. Is it conceivable that this Commission has been unable to accomplish its mission to date? Would anybody ask the Executive Chairman of UNSCOM what has been accomplished and what remains to be done? Is it conceivable that UNSCOM has not yet been able to destroy the weapons of mass destruction once owned by Iraq? What has this huge army of inspectors been doing all this time? They did not come to Iraq for a vacation. Is it true that the documents and equipment which the Commission alleges to remain but has been unable to find constitute a threat to international peace and security and require the withholding of its recommendation that the sanctions against Iraq be lifted, even partially? Iraq has fulfilled all its substantive obligations with regard to the implementation of section C of resolution 687 (1991) on the elimination of prohibited weapons. I would like to reaffirm from this rostrum, on behalf of my Government, that Iraq has retained no prohibited weapons, components of such weapons or documents related thereto. What UNSCOM has been saying about Iraq’s concealment of prohibited weapons, components of such weapons or documents related thereto is based on mere suspicion unsupported by material evidence. Those suspicions emanate from American and British intelligence services and their agents. Iraq has asked UNSCOM to address these suspicions in a practical, objective and apolitical manner. UNSCOM is not a political body to be influenced by the political goals of any one country. It is, rather, a technical 22 Commission obliged to carry out its tasks in a technical and scientific manner free from political conflicts and antagonistic positions. We have witnessed in our dealings with UNSCOM, however, that it tends to act out of political considerations rather than on the basis of technical and scientific facts. My country demands that the permanent members of the Security Council — including the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Arab representative on the Council and one of the largest countries of the Middle East genuinely interested in seeing the region free from weapons of mass destruction — participate directly in the work and activities of UNSCOM and in the evaluation of its work and final conclusions. We are quite certain that, if this participation is carried out quickly and scrupulously, the conclusion will be reached, supported by evidence and convincing arguments, that the substantive issues in this file have been resolved as required by resolution 687 (1991) and that it is now time for the implementation of paragraph 22 of the said resolution. We wish to point out that our most recent experience with work carried out under the auspices of the United Nations has proven that there is a problem with the Organization’s structure. This problem is the large imbalance that exists between rights and obligations, in addition to the prevalence of the logic of force, which is not in the provisions of the Charter. The machinery of the international Organization has been used as a tool to implement the foreign policy of certain international super- Powers and to divert the United Nations, particularly the Security Council, from its natural path towards one that clearly contradicts the letter and spirit of the Charter which, as the organizing document of this Organization, forms the constitutional and legal basis upon which the United Nations must rely in all its practices. The provisions of the Charter dictate that the Security Council shall act in accordance with these purposes and principles when discharging its duties in the maintenance of international peace and security and in adopting its resolutions, whose content and implementation should conform to the principles of justice and international law. There are restrictions that the Council should abide by when adopting its resolutions, which should accord with the purposes and principles of the Organization, so that Member States are able to fulfil their obligation to accept and carry out the decisions of the Security Council resolutions in accordance with Article 25 of the Charter. The Security Council is not a world Government endowed with the power of legislation and detailed implementation beyond the letter and spirit of the Charter. It is, rather, a United Nations organ that must abide by the legal norms which constitute the legal basis for international legitimacy, embodied in every provision of the Charter of the United Nations. Believing in the principle of interdependence and in the common interests of all the peoples of the Earth, based on the sovereignty, independence and common concerns of States, Iraq has contributed and continues to contribute to the strengthening of the relations and values of multilateral international action. The poor countries of the southern hemisphere are facing a series of attempts to marginalize, isolate and prevent them from keeping pace with scientific and economic developments. These attempts include raising trade and political barriers to hinder these countries’ acquisition of technology and their chances of scientific progress, thereby subjecting them willy-nilly to an economic machinery that furthers only the interests of the large industrial Powers or the rich countries of the North. As President Saddam Hussein pointed out in his speech on Iraq’s National Day last July, the battle of the developing countries is the battle of the southern hemisphere for freedom, independence, development, prosperity and the enjoyment of rights and justice. President Saddam Hussein also pointed out that the United States of America and other international Powers have promulgated slogans publicly calling upon the countries of the South to develop their capabilities and potential, allegedly in order to bale themselves out from underdevelopment, poverty and deprivation. But when Iraq developed its capabilities and potential and used this development and its oil wealth to further its national development and advancement and to enhance Iraqis’ abilities and qualifications, the people responsible for the banners and slogans mobilized, under United States leadership, all the forces of evil against Iraq and attacked it with the bombs, missiles and armies of the 30-nation aggression in order to destroy my country’s infrastructure and one of the new pillars of development among the countries of the South. This places on the United Nations a large and historic obligation to shoulder the responsibilities entrusted to it by the Charter and to ensure the rights of all peoples and countries to peace, development and economic prosperity. The United Nations must be, as its founding fathers wanted it to be, the international instrument for the economic and social advancement of all peoples, rather than an instrument in the hands of a 23 certain Power that uses it to impose its hegemony on the world by force and blackmail. In conclusion, I would like to express my country’s firm belief that the United Nations, through the strenuous efforts of its working groups on the reform of its structure and methods of work, and thanks to the good will of many of its Members, will in the near future again approach its true potential and capabilities to reject hegemony over it and to accomplish the goals and purposes of its Charter in conformity with international legitimacy and in the interest of the welfare and happiness of all mankind.  ﻿My delegation joins others in warmly congratulating Ambassador Razali Ismail on his election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. His election is indeed, and in fact, a tribute both to him and to his great country, Malaysia. I would assure him of my delegation’s full cooperation during his tenure of office. It also gives me great pleasure to extend the profound gratitude of my delegation to the outgoing President of the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, who presided over the session with such great skill, dexterity and expertise. Lasting peace and security on our planet are the very cornerstones of progress and prosperity in our nation States. They are the cornerstones of accelerated development, to which we all, developing and least developed countries, aspire. Mankind has fervently sought to live in peace and security throughout the ages, but lasting peace and security in our world have been very elusive, particularly during this century. In the early part of this century, we became embroiled in the First World War. We all thought that that was the war to end all wars, and then came the Second World War, two decades later. It was the worst destructive war of our times, and it left many challenges to peace and security in its wake. The end of the war saw our world bipolarized and busy with the pursuit of spheres of influence by the two super-Powers, which culminated in a new era, the cold- war era. Prospects for peace and security in our world faded as the super-Powers and other major Powers began a race for the production and stockpiling of new weapons of war and mass destruction. The world entered a new phase, the nuclear age, when several Powers began to develop, test and produce nuclear weapons. The testing of those weapons to make them even more powerful took place in many parts of the world, including my country’s own region in the South Pacific. In such a milieu, peace and security became a constant prayer but a distant hope, as many of us in the non-nuclear world were filled with foreboding that our world was on the brink of nuclear extinction. In such a horrific scenario, common sense began to prevail, and that common sense, buoyed by the initiatives of this important Organization, the United Nations, led to the conclusion of several important but limited treaties and to the Conference on Disarmament. Those initiatives 12 were ultimately crowned with success when, on 10 September 1996, in an extended fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly, the vast majority of the world’s nations adopted the text of a Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, the CTBT. In the context of the South Pacific region, with the adoption of the CTBT, the signature by the United States of America, the United Kingdom and France of the Protocols to the South Pacific Nuclear-Free-Zone Treaty — the Treaty of Rarotonga — and the ratification by France of the Protocols, my country and the countries of the region can breathe a sigh of relief at the cessation of the assault on our environment. Now our Governments can focus on the economic and social utilization of our natural resources to improve and increase the standard of living of our peoples without having to worry as much as we have in the past about the effects nuclear testing was having on the health of our people and the environment of the region. To further enhance this positive and welcome development, we urge the United States and the United Kingdom to ratify the Protocols to the South Pacific Nuclear-Free-Zone Treaty. My country hails the adoption of the CTBT as one of the greatest achievements of the international community this century. It represents an imposing foundation for the establishment of lasting peace and security in our world. The CTBT may not be the paragon of virtue most of us probably expected it to be. It is, nevertheless, a bold and constructive initiative that is meaningful and at the same time a reassurance of our survival of the nuclear menace. All of us must take the responsibility of assuring the success of the Treaty. My country calls on all nations of the world, in the interest of lasting peace and security on our planet and in the interest of all mankind, to sign and ratify the CTBT. Fiji signed the CTBT the day it was opened for signature. My Government has already decided to ratify it. In the final analysis, we do not see the adoption of the CTBT as the final nail in the coffin of nuclear weapons. To achieve our ultimate and pre-eminent aim and our desire for lasting peace and security in our world, my country would like to see the CTBT as merely the first step towards an end to the production of all nuclear weapons, an end to the stockpiling of all nuclear weapons, the ultimate destruction of all nuclear weapons, the establishment of a nuclear- weapon-free world and general disarmament as a whole. Today, while we rejoice with a degree of relief at the adoption and signing of the CTBT, it is at the same time also incumbent upon us not to relax our vigilance with regard to the moves and proposals in certain quarters to import and dump nuclear waste and other forms of hazardous waste in our region. I refer specifically to reported plans afoot by certain unscrupulous nuclear- waste dealers to use the Palmyra Islands and certain other sites in the Pacific as permanent disposal facilities for nuclear waste. My country wishes to make it clear to all concerned that we in the Pacific region will not sit idly by and allow any further reckless and mindless destruction of our environment and detriment to the health of our people through any form of nuclear contamination. The stark reality of international affairs in our world today is that total nuclear disarmament and general disarmament, or even accelerated movement towards those goals, will not end tensions and conflicts and threats to peace. Even when weapons were made of stone, tensions, threats to peace and conflicts existed. And when we look at the events that are happening at present in a number of countries around us, my country recognizes, and I am sure we all do, that we must create in our international life a system of preventive diplomacy that can respond promptly, positively, peacefully and effectively to potential conflicts and threats of genocide, and de-escalate internal tensions and threats to internal and regional peace. My country wishes to recall its recommendation to the fiftieth session of the General Assembly that earnest and urgent action should be taken to set up a special United Nations department or unit to pursue preventive diplomacy in conflict prevention and conflict resolution. The department, in collaboration with competent countries and authorities, should have the capacity to receive, collate, analyse and interpret intelligence information and reports with a view to early detection of potential conflicts and early reaction to contain, minimize and resolve such conflicts in collaboration with relevant Member States. We should take every step within our power to prevent fires rather than having to put them out, to save lives rather than having to condemn the loss of lives. Accordingly, my country welcomes the offer made by Norway in the General Assembly to establish a fund for preventive action at the United Nations and that country’s pledge to provide some financial contribution to the fund annually. In our efforts to promote, establish and maintain peace and security in our world, it is incumbent upon us 13 to recognize and realize that security has several dimensions, not the least of which is economic security. Sluggish economic development and limited development growth have affected developing countries and in particular, small island States, threatening national regional stability in one way or another. My country therefore calls on the international community, first, to increase official development assistance and to improve the quality of such assistance to developing countries; secondly, to cooperate in the creation of a more equitable international economic environment and thereby help to promote sustained economic growth and sustainable development, and at the same time, help to eradicate poverty; thirdly, to dismantle trade barriers and restrictions to market access; fourthly, to improve the access of developing countries to capital from international financial institutions and commercial sources; and lastly, to facilitate and assist the flow of investment capital and appropriate technologies to developing countries. We have noted with concern that donor countries have failed to comply with the internationally agreed targets of official development assistance and commitments for new and additional resources. There is urgent need for a substantial expansion of official development assistance and for qualitative improvements in official development assistance by donor countries through a reduced cost of repayment. In fact, my country has noted with deep regret that while some developed countries have been making efforts to meet the official development assistance level, such assistance from some rich countries has been declining noticeably, and the decline has been taking place in the post-cold-war era, when it was to be expected that such countries were in a better position to increase the flow of official development assistance as a result of greater stability in the world and reduced tensions between former antagonists. In fact, in the case of a few traditional donors, aid has almost completely dried up. In some cases, aid is being systematically reduced. It appears that our region is no longer a strategic area for competition by the former cold-war antagonists to gain our favour. My country is concerned to see the recent trend in some countries to seek to impose alien norms on countries with a unique, traditional and customary nature of society, especially indigenous societies. On the other hand, with respect to Japan and some South-East Asian countries such as Malaysia, development assistance is provided with no intention of interfering in their internal affairs. International cooperation for development lies at the very heart of improving the living conditions of the great majority of people in our world who live in developing and least developed countries. My country fully supports an Agenda for Development, which is aimed at restoring the imperative of development as a central concern. Such an agenda should contain specific, concrete and pragmatic proposals that could be translated into action programmes and implemented on the basis of global priorities. The Agreement amending the fourth Lomé Convention between the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific and the European Community, signed in Mauritius on 4 November 1995, includes a Second Financial Protocol that ensures that the European Development Fund will be available for development projects in African, Caribbean and Pacific countries up to the end of February 2000. This commitment by the European Union is a direct endorsement of a multilateral accord and a North-South development instrument that has worked and that has been widely acclaimed throughout the world. Many critics are predicting the end of Lomé by the year 2000. However, within the Community itself, and within the 70 African, Caribbean and Pacific States, the idea of a successor agreement to Lomé IV is a fait accompli. That in itself is a firm and unambiguous recognition of the dire need for such an instrument beyond the year 2000. It is therefore our — and indeed everyone’s — responsibility to protect and defend the principles and philosophy behind an accord such as the Lomé Convention. Those who are carried along by the liberalization of the so-called winds of change that are sweeping through the continents must realize that parts of our international community will still require preferential arrangements in the interest of economic and political parity and of equity, peace and stability in the world. It is sad to note that the developed countries have so far failed to fulfil their commitments to provide new and additional financial resources and technology transfer to the developing countries on favourable terms. The implementation of such commitments is most necessary for international economic cooperation, as is meaningful and effective follow-up to major conferences. My country calls for the prompt and full implementation of the commitments and recommendations of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), which are more relevant today than ever before. We believe that under UNCED 14 developing countries should have the right to benefit fully from the utilization of their natural resources if they are to achieve sustained economic growth and maintain sustainable development. We wish to highlight the continuing urgent need to promote and facilitate industrialization as an instrument to facilitate rapid economic and social development in developing countries, which will contribute to the elimination of poverty and the generation of productive employment. The strengthening of the industrial bases of developing and least developed countries should become an international imperative. My country calls on the international community to ensure an open, rule-based, equitable, secure, non- discriminatory, transparent and predictable multilateral trading system with the aim of achieving the complete integration of the developing countries into the world economy and the new international trading system. We call upon Member States to implement fully the commitments agreed to in the Final Act adopted by the World Trade Conference, which confers special and differential treatment on developing countries. We believe that the carefully balanced package of rights and obligations with respect to the World Trade Organization should be carefully preserved and that the essential priority should be the implementation and fulfilment of such rights and obligations and the adoption of measures to mitigate adverse consequences on the developing countries. The present unfair trading system is stagnating the economies of small island States when the international community is committed to protecting them. Fiji has deregulated its economy and its trade system, but we are deterred in our efforts to gain access to the markets of some developed countries, which still retain regulatory barriers of one kind or other. My country therefore warmly welcomes the statement by the British Foreign Minister in this Assembly that the developed world must demolish the barriers it still maintains against imports from the developing world and the concomitant commitment to bring a vision of global free trade to reality by the year 2020. It is sad to note that the debt crisis persists as one of the main constraints to development in developing countries. We wish to stress the urgent need for the international community, particularly donor countries and international financial institutions, to adopt an effective, comprehensive and equitable development-oriented and durable solution to the debt problem of developing countries. My country strongly supports the World Food Summit to be held at Rome next month. It is the first time that world leaders will meet to debate and renew a commitment to eradicate hunger and malnutrition and to address the issues of food security for all peoples through the adoption of policies and actions at the national, subregional, regional and international levels. As we pursue initiatives on several fronts to promote and facilitate lasting peace and security in our world, we have to be mindful of areas of tension that exist concurrently. The Washington Middle East peace summit has come and gone, but at least it succeeded in bringing together the leader of Israel and the Palestinian leader in dialogue and discussion. We urge the parties to pursue in a meaningful way the initiative set in motion by the Washington summit. We also urge continued restraint by all. Killing and lamentations may have become an established way of life in the region, but peace and peaceful coexistence are the only civilized way towards progress and prosperity for all. We call upon the parties to undertake genuine and constructive action to negotiate, achieve and maintain a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. The Dayton accords succeeded in bringing a halt to armed hostilities in war-torn Bosnia. General elections have been held, but the situation remains fragile and the conclusion is inescapable that the international peacekeeping presence in Bosnia should remain for some time to come to consolidate the gains that have been achieved so far. Recent events in Cyprus have reminded us that the tense situation in that country persists, and my country continues to urge all parties to accelerate the pace of the negotiations in the interest of finding a constructive, just and lasting solution as early as possible. Recent events in the Straits of Taiwan have highlighted the tension that exists in that region of the world, a region which is otherwise currently witnessing a most dynamic economic growth. Both the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan, which are also active participants in post-forum dialogue with the island countries of the South Pacific Forum, contribute 15 significantly to the development of the South Pacific region. My country welcomes the spirit of cooperation between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China and encourages the continuation of such dialogue and cooperation. The genocide in Rwanda and Burundi imposes an obligation on our community of nations to pursue every possible initiative to prevent tragedies of such magnitude and to avoid a recurrence whenever and wherever they occur, and not on a selective basis or to serve the self- interest of one or another major Power. The conclusion is inescapable that such problems should not be left entirely to regional organizations to resolve, since they may have neither the capacity nor the resources to deal effectively with the situation. My county condemns international terrorism and will fully support all international efforts and measures to eliminate international terrorism. We will also support initiatives to negotiate an international agreement to ban the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines. We fully support international efforts in crime prevention and criminal justice and are fully appreciative of the preparatory work being done on the establishment of an international criminal court. My country would like to reemphasize its strong view that the question of the protection and security of small States should remain a central concern of the United Nations. For as long as drug traffickers, international arms dealers, money launderers and international white-collar criminals continue their criminal activities, and as long as mercenaries and terrorists exist, small States will remain vulnerable to acts of aggression from without as well as from within. Small States especially look to the provisions of the United Nations Charter for the respect and preservation of their sovereignty. My country continues to urge all parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to move speedily towards the conclusion of an effective protocol that would ultimately bring about improvements in the global climate system. My country is one of the many that is vulnerable to rising sea levels, hurricanes and other phenomena associated with disastrous climate changes. Our physical survival could be affected if immediate action is not taken to address the problem of climate changes in our world. The meeting of the South Pacific Forum held in the Marshall Islands from 3 to 5 September this year highlighted the Forum’s concern that climate change has become a crucial issue within the region. It called — and we share that call — for urgent action, particularly in view of the second assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which stated that the balance of scientific evidence suggested a discernible human influence on the global climate. The Forum welcomed the outcome of the second session of the Conference of the Parties to the Framework Convention on Climate Change and called for acceleration of negotiations on the text of a legally binding protocol or another legal instrument to be completed in time for adoption at the third session of the Conference of Parties in order to achieve significant progress towards the goal of lower greenhouse-gas emissions. The South Pacific Forum also called upon all countries to support the activities of the Ad Hoc Group on the Berlin Mandate and reaffirmed its support for the inclusion of the draft protocol presented by the Alliance of Small Island States for consideration in the negotiating process. My country warmly welcomes the recent establishment of the International Seabed Authority and the election of the judges of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. These new developments, together with the successful completion last year of the United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, will maintain the momentum in the implementation of the Law of the Sea Convention. In particular, we support the promotion of the regime for the sustainable utilization of the living resources of the sea. It is our sincere hope that the International Seabed Authority will administer the resources of the sea for the benefit of mankind. My country calls on the international community and the United Nations, in accordance with the decision of the General Assembly taken in July 1994 to provide adequate funding and adequate technical support to the International Seabed Authority so that it can competently discharge in a most effective and efficient manner the responsibilities we gave it under the Convention. My delegation is pleased to be a sponsor of a draft resolution seeking the granting of observer status in the United Nations for the International Seabed Authority. The United Nations has done a remarkable and excellent job in carrying out its mandates during the 51 years of its existence. It has played a significant, discernible and indispensable role in human affairs, from the peaceful resolution of conflicts and peacekeeping to 16 economic development and social progress, from food and agriculture to employment and labour standards, from helping the children of our world to fostering human rights and justice. The international community is deeply indebted to the United Nations, which should continue to be a forum for multilateral cooperation and not an instrument that major Powers may use to serve their own national self- interests. My country acknowledges with profound gratitude the assistance and cooperation it has been receiving from the United Nations in its national and regional development efforts. Fiji continues to pledge its commitment to the United Nations and to what it stands for. It is appropriate to observe, however, that in order to respond to the many demands of this complex world in which we all live, the United Nations has had to expand. Over a period of years, it has become very heavy, thereby greatly increasing the cost of its operation. The unhealthy state of United Nations finances does not derive, however, solely from the Organization’s enhanced and expanding structure. It has also been exacerbated by the non-payment of dues and assessments. We call on all Member States that have not paid their dues or assessments and are in arrears to pay them promptly, fully and without conditions. My country appreciates the steps taken this year by the United Nations administration to improve management, to make services more efficient and more effective and to cut costs. Notwithstanding the action that has been taken, my country believes that more can and should be done to make the Organization leaner and more streamlined and at the same time to reduce costs further. The various organs, agencies and departments of the United Nations need to be rationalized in line with the modalities of today’s world, and structural changes and more personnel reforms must be instituted to make it more responsive to the constant demands of a continuously changing international community. My country believes that the scale of assessments for the apportionment of expenses should be reassessed to make it more equitable and less burdensome for small island States. My country believes that the time has come for the reform of the Security Council. We submit, as we did last year, that the organs of the United Nations should reflect changes in the global political landscape as well as the principles of geographic representation and equity. The Security Council should, in our view, be enlarged to accommodate the existing global political landscape. Since peace and security underpin the very foundation of this Organization, my country fully supports the international peacekeeping missions of the United Nations. We are committed to the maintenance of international peace and security and, despite the fact that we are a small, developing island State with a small population, we have actively participated in the vast majority of United Nations peacekeeping missions. Fijian soldiers are serving in the Middle East with both the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon and the Multinational Force and Observers, as well as in Iraq and Kuwait. They have served in Afghanistan, Somalia and in Rwanda. Our policemen, too, have served in Angola, Cambodia, Namibia and Iraq, and are currently serving in Eastern Slavonia and in Croatia. Several of our men have lost their lives in the service of the international community and in the pursuit of peace and security in our world. Peacekeeping is the responsibility of all Member States, whether they contribute troops and personnel or not. We therefore urge all countries concerned to expedite the settlement of the assessments for peacekeeping due to the United Nations. And in turn, we urge the United Nations expeditiously and fully to settle the amounts or arrears outstanding to Member countries for their participation in peacekeeping operations. As I stated previously, international security has many dimensions. The security of the world’s indigenous peoples is one such dimension. The history of the world’s indigenous peoples is replete with wholesale slaughter, genocide and, in some cases, total annihilation during the era of exploration, discovery and colonization. The Prime Minister of Fiji, the Honourable Sitiveni Rabuka, told the United Nations last year that it: “must guarantee that external values and forces do not continue to coerce political concessions, economic reforms and social changes not desired by indigenous peoples themselves”. (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 40th meeting, p. 49) At the opening of the regional workshop on the draft United Nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples held in Fiji last month, the Prime Minister of Fiji declared that: 17 “In our Pacific home, we have been sole proprietors in most places for no less than three thousand years; in most other places, for much longer.” Our Prime Minister stated that it must be legally accepted that: “We are the first settlers, first dwellers or proprietors of our land. Secondly, we are a collective group that was imposed upon by uninvited external forces who disrupted the normal march of our history. As victims of what continues to be described as imperialism and colonialism, we cannot, in our quest for freedom, allow the vestiges of foreign domination to encroach upon us, either through internal machinations or external collusion.” The Fiji workshop agreed in principle that, wherever possible, efforts to strengthen the text of the current draft declaration should be encouraged. The unanimous view of the workshop was that efforts by States to undermine the existing language of the draft should be actively resisted by indigenous peoples. The workshop further resolved that Pacific indigenous peoples should seek to promote greater support for the draft declaration within the United Nations system so that the overall objective of achieving an effective and meaningful declaration on indigenous peoples is reached. My country, which has had a multiracial population for the last 150 years, warmly welcomes the observance of the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People. We strongly urge, during the International Decade, the adoption of the declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. My country believes that the declaration should not be the alpha and the omega of indigenous rights, but should be merely a first step towards the negotiation, under the auspices of the United Nations, of a comprehensive legal convention on the rights of indigenous peoples. Tension and fears among the indigenous people in Fiji led to the military overthrow of the Government in 1987 and the promulgation of a new Constitution in 1990 by an interim Government. That Constitution provided indigenous Fijians majority representation in Parliament. That Constitution was reviewed by a three-member commission headed by Sir Paul Reeves of New Zealand. After over 12 months of review, the commission recently submitted its report and recommendations to the Government. The Government has duly submitted the report to Parliament and a Select Committee, comprising representatives of all the political parties in Parliament, has been appointed to consider the Commission’s report and recommendations. Lasting peace and security in our world has been an illusion for the greater part of this century. With the new global changes, with our recent adoption of the CTBT, with rising optimism regarding the Conference on Disarmament, with what can be perceived as a genuine desire for peace, and with more meaningful international collaboration in the areas of economic cooperation and development, there is some hope for achieving lasting peace and security in our world.  ﻿Allow me first to congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his election to the post of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. We consider this to constitute recognition by the community of nations of the growing role being played by Malaysia on the world political and economic scenes. The Republic of Tajikistan’s accession to full United Nations membership five years ago marked a new page in the history of my country’s relations with the Organization. Five years is, of course, a short period in history, but for our country they have been crucial. For the Tajik people, whose history over the past millennium has been full of tragic events, they were fraught with serious ordeals. These years saw both our breakthrough to sovereignty and one of the most tragic periods of our modern history: the civil war. Indeed, the question was whether one of the newest Member States was to continue to exist on the world map. The people of Tajikistan answered this question themselves, but the historical cost of the survival of the young State, which became the object of massive aggression from united extremist forces, including attacks carried out from the southern borders of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), was very high. It is already clear today that the conflict imposed on the Tajik people — an enormous human tragedy — was aimed at undermining the newly emerging foundations of the State and interfering with economic growth and market reforms and hence the country’s independent development along a general democratic course. The scale of the conflict and the degree of involvement of forces from the territory of a neighbouring State posed a threat to peace and security on the Asian continent as a whole. Fortunately, in its difficult struggle for political survival, Tajikistan was not left to fend for itself. The CIS States — primarily Russia and the central Asian countries, as well as the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, supported the Republic and continue to do so. 23 Today, the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan is concentrating its efforts on tasks whose successful accomplishment will make it possible to reconstruct the social and economic infrastructure of the southern part of the Republic, which was devastated by the civil war; to reintegrate the disrupted regional sectors of the national economy on a new basis; and to convert the distorted centralized national economy that we inherited into a modern market economy. These tasks, difficult enough in their own right, are all the more complex because of a chronic shortage of our own financial resources. Thanks to the donor States, the United Nations specialized agencies and other international and regional organizations, Tajikistan continues to receive humanitarian support. The overall volume of the assistance received, however, is insufficient, while the economic situation inside the country continues to be very complicated. We note with satisfaction that, given these circumstances, authoritative international financial institutions have been understanding about our growing needs. As a result, the Government of Tajikistan, supported by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, is making deliberate efforts to intensify the reforms, create a market economy in the country and integrate the national economy into the world trade and economic system. A solid basis for progressive and sustainable development is being created in the country step by step. That is why the Government of Tajikistan is particularly interested in the adoption by the General Assembly at this session of decisions dealing with assistance to countries with transitional economies, taking into account the relevant provisions of the Agenda for Development. We also hope that the decisions of the most recent special session of the Commission for Social Development will be fully implemented. As the Assembly may know, the Commission emphasized once again the necessity for United Nations financial organizations to mobilize resources in support of the national efforts of the developing countries to implement the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and the Programme of Action of the World Summit for Social Development. This important Declaration acquires special significance on the eve of the first United Nations Decade for the Eradication Poverty (1997-2006). The stabilization of Tajikistan’s economy is not only the key to satisfying the pressing social and economic needs of our people, but would without a doubt promote the process of national conciliation, social consolidation, and the strong and healthy formation of democratic institutions in the country as a whole. As a post-socialist State at the very beginning of its democratic rejuvenation, the Republic of Tajikistan values highly the international experience it has accumulated within the United Nations. Such experience helps Governments to develop and strengthen new democracies. Drawing upon this rich international experience, my Government is purposefully taking important constitutional steps towards creating an open society. Firmly and consistently committed to the course of democratic development pursued by the President of the Republic of Tajikistan, Mr. Emomali Rakhmonov, the Government of my country promotes the involvement of the broad mass of the population in social, political and economic reform processes through such mechanisms as referendums, national elections to representative bodies, renovation of the judicial system and every possible encouragement of openness. An important practical step towards the further democratization of society was taken with the adoption of the treaty on national reconciliation in Tajikistan, initiated by the President and social organizations of the country. This treaty was signed by the leaders of the absolute majority of political parties, public movements, national associations and religious communities. We consider it to be a universal, basic document of national reconciliation that defines viewpoints for the formation of a State providing for the equal and full participation of all political and regional forces in national public life. The people of Tajikistan made a deliberate choice in favour of democratic reforms and they are not going to give them up voluntarily. However, the course is full of obstacles, which my Government is resolved to overcome in the interests of achieving the main goal: the formation of a civil society. One of the main problems hampering our building of a new society is an undeclared small war in the far south- east of Tajikistan and on the Tajik-Afghan border, which has been imposed on the Tajik people by the opposition Islamic Revival Movement of Tajikistan. The intransigent armed wing of the opposition is increasing tensions in the country by torpedoing the agreements reached at the inter- Tajik talks. By constantly and flagrantly violating the Tajik-Afghan sector of the southern border of the Commonwealth of Independent States, it is inflicting pain 24 and suffering on the civil population and causing irreparable damage to the unique wildlife of the Pamir region. The leadership of Tajikistan believes that the road to peace in the country lies through the continuation of dialogue and the resolution of existing differences through constitutional legitimacy and only by political means. The Republic of Tajikistan sincerely appreciates the active humanitarian mediation of the United Nations, which is searching for ways to resolve the conflict peacefully. My Government greatly values the personal contribution made by the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, his Special Representative, Mr. Gerd Merrem, and the United Nations Mission of Observers in Tajikistan to the settlement of the conflict. We greatly appreciate the significant contribution made to the peace process by other international organizations, as well as by the States attending the talks as observers. In particular I would like to note the constructive role played by the Russian Federation. It has given us significant and considerable assistance in protecting Tajikistan’s border and ensuring security in general. We see this assistance as a strategic measure aimed at preventing the southern border of the Tajik part of the CIS from being violated. This task is being carried out by a group of Russian border patrol troops in Tajikistan, comprised for the most part of Tajik youths, and the collective peacekeeping forces with the participation of Uzbekistan, Kazakstan and Kyrgyzstan. It is appropriate to recall that the leadership of Tajikistan and the States whose military contingents are part of the collective peacekeeping forces of the CIS have repeatedly asked that these forces be granted the status of United Nations peacekeeping operation. I do not think this request is any less urgent today. We are well aware of the fact that the only prerequisite for effective dialogue is the moral willingness of the opposing sides to reach a possible compromise. The Government of Tajikistan has repeatedly demonstrated its good will by trying to meet the other side half-way and to breathe new life into the negotiating process whenever necessary. We will not tire of walking this, the only road to peace. At the same time, we consider the demands made by the opposition for an equal division of power and, particularly, the dismantling of existing State bodies as a condition for national reconciliation to be unrealistic and designed deliberately to lead to deadlock. The Government of Tajikistan is fully determined logically to finish what it has started and to find a mutually acceptable formula for peace in the country. And if the opposition takes a similarly constructive stance and strictly adheres to the Tehran ceasefire agreement, then there is hope that the Ashgabat agreements will lead to real political results and bring the long-awaited peace to Tajik soil. A striking illustration of this is the agreement reached on 16 September this year between the Government Commission and the opposition’s field commanders that brought peace, fragile though it may be, to this long-suffering land. The efforts of my Government to achieve peace would be even more fruitful were it not for the remaining tensions in neighbouring Afghanistan, where the situation is a humanitarian tragedy of a truly global scale. We would welcome efforts by United Nations Member States to find new ways to settle the conflict in Afghanistan. It is not only our geographical neighbour but also a country linked to Tajikistan by centuries-old historical and spiritual ties. While expressing grave concern at the latest developments in neighbouring Afghanistan, we support the steps taken by the Security Council and the General Assembly aimed at promoting a peaceful resolution of the Afghan conflict. The Republic of Tajikistan, for its part, is ready to join forces with other members of the international community and contribute to this constructive process, which may have a positive influence and help stabilize the situation along the Tajik-Afghan border. From this high rostrum, I cannot but express my gratitude to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) for its constructive and fruitful participation in solving a humanitarian problem: that of our refugees who have found themselves in Afghanistan as a result of the civil war. The three-year UNHCR operation in Tajikistan has ended with success. During this comparatively short period of time, with UNHCR assistance in finding a comprehensive solution to this issue, most Tajik refugees have returned to their homeland. With the support of UNHCR, the Government of Tajikistan renovated about 18,000 houses for the returned refugees. Programmes are being implemented, in cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme, to encourage the development of small enterprises, promoting social and economic conditions that can help repatriates gradually to adapt. 25 The United Nations Children’s Fund and the World Health Organization have made great and invaluable contributions to health care and disease prevention for women and children in Tajikistan. At the same time, we cannot but be concerned for the several thousand Tajik refugees still in Afghanistan. Their return to the homeland is being prevented by the armed opposition, which is linking their return to the resolution of political issues not directly related to this purely humanitarian act. We hope that, with the international community’s assistance and the support of the States concerned, a rapid and definitive solution can be found to this major problem. In this regard, I wish to express our support for the decisions of the Conference on Refugees, Returnees, Displaced Persons and Related Migratory Movements in the Commonwealth of Independent States and Relevant Neighbouring States held in Geneva in late May this year. It is very important that the decisions taken at this session of the General Assembly support the programme of action adopted at the Geneva conference. We are also concerned at the fact that military training bases of fighters belonging to the armed Tajik opposition continue to operate, without hindrance, on the territory of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, itself a country that has been plagued by civil war for almost two decades. This is where provocative cross-border sorties are carefully planned and new victims of terror and violence, including among the civilian population, are determined. Nor is it merely armed fighters that cross the Tajik-Afghan border. Beyond Pyandzh, drug manufacturing is out of control and drug trafficking and the sales of drugs to other countries, even to other continents, are consistently on the rise. Criminal elements and groups from certain regions in Afghanistan illegally circulate arms, thus undermining Tajikistan’s State security. It is well known that terrorists of every stripe have always fed off the drug trade and illegal arms sales. We, like other States, are particularly alarmed at the close relationship between some terrorist organizations and the illegal drug trade. Drug addiction has long been one of the most terrible social scourges on Earth. In Tajikistan, which has become one of the world’s “hot spots” in terms of the distribution of drugs coming from outside the country, we understand only too well the danger posed by drug abuse and illegal trafficking to people’s lives, health, dignity and economic prosperity, as well as to the political stability of a State. The consequences of these criminal acts can be felt not just in Tajikistan or the CIS, but far beyond the Commonwealth borders. All this poses a real threat to peace and stability throughout the Central and South Asian region, including Afghanistan. The Government of Tajikistan expresses its grave concern at terrorist activity around the world. We need a united front to curb the destructive wave of terror and drastically intensify the common struggle to prevent terrorism from emerging in any form. It is particularly necessary to create a reliable barrier against terrorists’ attempts to gain access to weapons of mass destruction. While unconditionally condemning all manifestations of terrorism, the Government of Tajikistan feels that the time has come to turn anti-terrorist cooperation under the auspices of the United Nations to practical action. In this regard, we must make full use of the resources of regional organizations. During the half a century of its existence, the United Nations has proved its viability; at the same time, however, it has reached the threshold of certain indispensable changes in its structure and activities. We feel that, in today’s unstable and transitional international conditions, the role of the United Nations should steadily grow. In our opinion, it is important to approach reform in a pragmatic way, concentrate on those issues that are ripe for resolution and maintain a reasonable balance between innovation and those mechanisms that have proved their efficiency. The most important thing is to enhance coordination within the framework of the United Nations; to focus efforts on such priorities as peacemaking, humanitarian crises, human rights, sustainable development and support to States with transitional economies; and to monitor strictly the use of limited available resources. The Government of Tajikistan feels that the integral element in comprehensive United Nations reform is the question of the further enhancement of the role of the Security Council as the most important instrument for maintaining and strengthening international peace and security. It is also our opinion that the expansion and renewal of the Council must be carried out in keeping 26 with Charter criteria for Council membership and the current status of its permanent members. We think that the Security Council would be made more representative by adding not only some candidates from among the industrial Powers, such as Germany and Japan, but also some representatives from Asian, African and Latin American countries. In this connection, the proposal made by the delegation of Italy is of great interest. In the autumn of 1995, when leaving United Nations Headquarters in New York, the leaders of the community of States once again affirmed the determination of their Governments to fight for the realization of our common ideals of peace and development, justice and sovereign equality and respect for human rights and basic freedoms, including the right to development. At that time, we adopted a historic Declaration as a commitment to the present and future generations of the Earth to exert our joint efforts to prevent a resurgence of both cold and hot wars and large-scale and small-scale conflicts in our global world. This is why we all have a great deal of creative work ahead of us — for the sake of all mankind and for the benefit of the future of our planet Earth.  ﻿On behalf of my country and on my own behalf, I extend to you, Sir, our warmest congratulations on your unanimous election as President of the fifty-first session of the Assembly. Your election is indeed a deserving tribute to you personally and to your great country, Malaysia, which, over the years, has been unflagging in its commitment to the principles and ideals of this Organization — the attainment of international peace and justice. I am confident that your rich diplomatic experience, coupled with your fine human qualities, will enable you to guide the deliberations of this session of the Assembly to a successful conclusion. Permit me, Sir, to also take this opportunity to extend my delegation’s gratitude to your predecessor for having so ably steered the Assembly’s fiftieth session up to this momentous occasion. I should like at this point to convey our appreciation and gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the dedicated and able manner in which he has guided the work of the Organization. In this regard, we reaffirm our support for the Organization of African Unity’s (OAU) declaration on the Secretary-General’s re- election. Permit me, Mr. Secretary-General, to convey, through you, to the entire staff of the United Nations our admiration for their loyalty and commitment to the Organization. I bring also the greetings and good will of the people of Sierra Leone. They have requested me to convey our sincere gratitude to the international community for its support in restoring democracy to our country in March this year. I stand here today as a testimony to the right of that people, who in March of this year elected their Government and chose their destiny. As their leader, I am determined to live up to their high aspirations and expectations. Allow me on this occasion also to pay tribute to our gallant citizens, many of whom lost their lives in the process of restoring democracy and constitutional rule to our country. Despite this great achievement, my country is still haunted and tormented by the spectre of ongoing civil conflict in our country. The rebel war inflicted severe pain and suffering on my people, who had never before imagined that such a terrible thing could happen to us. Thousands of innocent civilians — men, women and children — lost their lives; others were traumatized, as well as physically or psychologically crippled for life; still others continue to languish as refugees or displaced persons in inhospitable camps. The Revolutionary United Front (RUF) has no political agenda and no respect for the democratic process. It consistently ignored an invitation to participate in the recent internationally supervised elections in spite of numerous appeals and offers of assistance by the United Nations and other intergovernmental organizations. Instead, it set out to disrupt those elections by unleashing violence against the electorates, killing many and maiming many more. Thanks to our determination to restore democracy in our country, this RUF attempt failed, as did its effort to collude with the military junta and share power in defiance of the democratic process. The RUF draws its support from abducted villagers and rural schoolchildren, including girls aged seven and older, and maintains their “loyalty” with the use of drugs and terror. This notwithstanding, my Government entered into peace negotiations in the spirit of reconciliation, and I am pleased to report that the talks have advanced considerably. In March 1996, just after my assumption of office, a ceasefire was agreed upon. In spite of some incidents, it is still generally holding. On behalf of the people and Government of the Republic of Sierra Leone, I should like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to the Secretary- 4 General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the continuing support he has afforded us to in promoting the cause of democratization and the restoration of peace in my country and, in particular, for his assignment of a Special Envoy, whose constructive and enduring role has helped to advance the peace process. I should also like to express gratitude to President Henri Konan-Bédié and the Government and people of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire for the selfless and painstaking efforts they have deployed in hosting and mediating the talks between the Government of Sierra Leone and the RUF. After protracted and painstaking negotiations that involved extensive Government concessions, including a general amnesty for all RUF members; an undertaking to help set up a trust fund for the RUF to assist it in transforming itself into a political party; the offer of jobs to the RUF leader and his followers, including their absorption into the army, the police and other government institutions, the RUF leader finally indicated his readiness to sign a peace agreement drafted by the host Government, Côte d’Ivoire. However, the RUF leader now seems to be unwilling to honour his commitment to sign the agreement, manufacturing various excuses to justify his prevarication. We are concerned that continued intransigence and prevarication by the RUF could precipitate a full-scale resumption of hostilities, given the increasing level of distrust between the two sides. It is therefore time for the international community to act to forestall this potential catastrophe by demanding that the RUF sign the peace agreement without further delay. Failing this, the imposition of sanctions against it should be considered, including the denial of access to the facilities and territories of third countries, and the prospect of its arraignment before a war crimes tribunal for the serious crimes being perpetrated against innocent civilians. While we persevere in our efforts to bring this conflict to a peaceful end, I owe it to our people to emphasize the need for the continued support of the international community to help us in the task of rehabilitation and reconstruction. We are encouraged by the outcome of the recent round-table conference on Sierra Leone held in Geneva under the auspices of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). We take this opportunity to express our sincere thanks to those countries that have pledged generously to assist in our post-conflict rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts. We, for our part, are determined to rebuild our country with all the energy and resources we can muster from within our borders. We have already embarked on this process, and we are determined to see it through, no matter what sacrifice is necessary. Two decades ago, the prevailing perception in this body was that the end of the cold war would dramatically reduce the incidence of regional conflicts and thus enhance international peace and security. Today, however, those conflicts appear to have been replaced by civil wars and ethnic strife, which now pose the greatest challenge to the peacekeeping and peacemaking capacities of the United Nations. We have witnessed mass horrors in Rwanda and Burundi, and intense internal strife in Somalia, Liberia and, to a lesser extent, in my own country. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chechnya and the occupied Palestinian territories all have continued to engage the attention of the international community. We call upon the leaders and actors in those conflicts to renounce violence and to embark on sincere and serious negotiations with a view to finding peaceful solutions. Agreements reached should be honoured and respected. The innocent, who are all too often the victims of such conflicts, cry out for peaceful resolution. As regards the question of the peaceful resolution of conflicts, of particular concern to my country is the situation in Liberia. Consensus has once again emerged from the political dialogue between the various factions, giving rise to renewed hopes of a durable peace for that devastated country and its people. Full implementation of the conditions embodied in the new implementation plan of the Abuja Agreement, concluded at the recent Economic Community of West African States Committee of Nine summit held in Abuja, Federal Republic of Nigeria, would provide real hope for Liberia. We remain confident that this time around, those responsible for the Liberians’ pain and suffering will find the courage and patriotism to spare their fellow citizens further violence and bloodshed. Enough is enough. The defenceless people of Liberia, especially innocent children, men and women, have a right to freedom from violence; they have a right to life. The situation in the Great Lakes region of Africa is also cause for serious concern. As we watch the cautious return of Rwandan refugees, we hope and pray that the wounds inflicted by ethnic strife will heal on the platform of national reconciliation. The ongoing crisis in Burundi also poses a challenge to the international community. In 5 the light of my own country’s recent history, we cannot condone the seizure of power by the military from a constitutionally elected Government. We call on all concerned not to relent in their search for a long-term solution to the horrendous crisis. Looking at the broader picture of tackling such difficulties, we hope that others will support the efforts of the Organization of African Unity to strengthen its Mechanism for the prevention and resolution of conflicts. Closely linked to the issue of peace is that of the protection of human rights. We reaffirm our faith in justice and in the dignity and worth of the human person. That is why Sierra Leone fully supports the work of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. We commend the work of the Preparatory Committee for its current efforts aimed at preparing the text of a statute for an international criminal court, which will have an important role in the area of massive human rights violations, which, notwithstanding the sad lessons of history, continue today in several parts of the world. While political, regional and ethnic conflicts, civil wars and the menace of armaments — both nuclear and conventional — are a major concern, Sierra Leone believes that the greatest threat to international peace and security today lies in poverty and in economic and social deprivation. The nature and complexity of the economic and social problems that beset Africa are all too familiar to us. The majority of African countries, including Sierra Leone, continue to face a myriad of economic and structural challenges. Africa has the largest number of least developed countries and the lowest average per capita income in the developing world. In fact, Africa’s overall living standards and socio-economic conditions have deteriorated considerably since the beginning of this decade. Most African countries have encountered numerous difficulties over the years in their effort to mobilize and deploy financial and human resources for economic development. The levels of investment have not been encouraging; nor have the levels of agricultural and mineral outputs, due in large part to drought, economic disincentives, political manipulation and an unfavourable international environment. In many cases, aided and abetted by ruthless arms merchants, many of us continue to engage in senseless fratricidal conflicts and the wanton destruction of the development infrastructure. We are also obliged to note that budgetary constraints faced by various developed countries, clarification of foreign aid objectives, revised conditions governing the granting of assistance, and the heightened competition among various regions for aid packages constitute a serious challenge for developing countries such as mine. The ubiquitous debt burden and the debt- servicing levels in no way help the situation, as they continue to be a major stumbling block on the path of African economic recovery and sustainable growth. Overseas development assistance and resource flows have dwindled to a level that gives us cause for concern. The downward trend in export commodity prices and the agricultural policies of some of the industrialized nations have had a negative impact on Africa’s trade in these commodities, the main source of income for socio-economic development. In this connection, the debt burden that continues to hang over us has conspired to frustrate our efforts at economic recovery and development. Sierra Leone strongly believes that the urgent implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted by the Assembly on 18 December 1991, is the best hope yet for setting Africa on the road to positive sustainable economic development. We appreciate the fact that the basic tenets of the New Agenda are grounded on the principles of shared responsibility and global partnership between Africa and the rest of the international community. Virtually all Member States of the first and second worlds represented in the Assembly have experienced, at one time or another, the same or similar problems in their struggle for national unity and economic prosperity; we read about them in the cold pages of history. Unfortunately for us Africans, our economic and other problems — teething problems, if I may say so — are transmitted live, instantly, by satellite to television sets across the globe. Looking at current economic, social and political conditions on our continent, including the atrocities meted out to our own kith and kin, one is inclined to lose hope in the ability of Africa to achieve sustainable development. But the thrust of my message today is simple: I appeal to the international community not to abandon Africa. Even though we may be on our knees in anguish, I firmly believe that there is hope for Africa, that Africa and its people have the ability and capacity to overcome natural and self-inflicted constraints and to achieve political stability as well as reasonable economic prosperity. We have recently witnessed many changes on the continent that lend credence to Africa’s genuine 6 commitment to the New Agenda for Africa and to other plans for economic and political stability. Hence, there is still hope for Africa. My presence here is symbolic of that hope. In spite of a rebel war that still hangs over my country, and in spite of attempts to frustrate the will of the people to choose their destiny freely and in a democratic manner, Sierra Leoneans opted for democracy. We are determined to achieve genuine peace as well as the objectives we have set for ourselves, which are commensurate with the enormous sacrifices our people have made. I am confident, therefore, that the political dialogue to ensure the advent of good governance, which has begun in earnest in most countries throughout the continent, will continue. Given the proper chance to grow, our new and emerging democracies will gradually bear fruit, and our distressed nations will once again be guided by lofty democratic ideals in an environment of peace, security and stability. African democracy will eventually be the order of the day. For these gains to be fully realized, it is therefore imperative that the international community continue to play a catalytic role in Africa’s development. In virtually every policy statement, every address and every current discussion about the United Nations there is some reference to reform in our Organization. We are encouraged by the work of various intergovernmental bodies to develop constructive ideas for reform. However, reform should not be seen only in terms of the so-called bloated bureaucracy of the Secretariat, to be used as a scapegoat for not meeting our obligations towards the Organization. In the view of the Government of Sierra Leone, we need a systemic reform; a reform of the political decision- making process in the Organization; a reform of some of the archaic methods and practices in the institutions that compose the United Nations system. Let us begin by transforming, indeed transferring, the principles and concepts of democratic governance, empowerment, power- sharing, decentralization and pluralism that we espouse for nation States to the international community at large. In this regard, Africa should be entitled to play its role in the Security Council, the primary decision-making organ of this Organization, particularly in relation to international peace and stability. In pursuit of this objective, we would like to recall and support the position expressed by the Non-Aligned Movement, that is, if there is no agreement on other categories of membership, expansion should take place, for the time being, only in the non-permanent category. I should like to note in this regard that the proposal of Italy, among others, deserves careful consideration, as it aims at increasing the participation of all Member States in the Council, in particular medium-sized and small countries, and it would improve its representative and democratic character. For our part, we affirm our faith in the United Nations, which, in spite of its defects, remains the greatest hope for the maintenance of international peace and security, and for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples in our interdependent world. Who needs the United Nations? First, it is an important institution. Furthermore, it is an effective international mechanism when used properly. Some of us represented in the Assembly may need it more than others, but we all do, in one way or another. Let us therefore rededicate ourselves to its principles and objectives, and, in the words of the Charter, make it at least “a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of these common ends”.  ﻿On behalf of the Lithuanian Government, allow me to warmly congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his election as President of the General Assembly at this session. 20 This session marks the fifth anniversary of the re- entrance of Lithuania into the international community of states. Five years ago, Lithuania was admitted to the United Nations. At that time, the Organization, its Member States and the peoples of the world saw the chance to seize historic opportunities created by the new international situation, with its promise of peace and stability. The past five years leave no doubt that some of these opportunities have been taken in a positive way. We have seen that the highest levels of cooperation are possible, both internationally and regionally. The destinies of different peoples around the world have been linked as never before by the globalization of the world economy and the information superhighway. But many cross-border issues, such as crime, drugs, environmental pollution and terrorism, pose a major challenge to us not only as individual nation-States, but as a family of nations as well. These global challenges have far-reaching implications for the world Organization. Originally, the United Nations was entrusted with the task of ensuring world harmony. Is it no less vital today to maintain and promote this worldwide policy, as designed by the founders of the United Nations? My answer is in the positive. For this reason, we need an Organization that can be more responsive to the demands of Member States, and Member States that act responsibly by setting realistic goals and providing the resources needed for their implementation. During these past five years, Lithuania has progressed politically and economically. Our relations with neighbouring States are friendly and mutually beneficial, thus ensuring a secure and stable environment in the region. We are in the process of becoming integrated into European and transatlantic structures. Negotiations on accession to the World Trade Organization are well-advanced, ties with our neighbours that are members of the Central European Free Trade Agreement are gaining strength. The most valuable cooperation is being advanced with Nordic countries, the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. These dimensions of cooperation have been fruitfully applied in other structures as well. Cooperation with the European Union on core United Nations issues — humanitarian affairs, human rights, peacekeeping, structural and financial reforms — and with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in the Implementation Force mission is the best example. We are striving to deepen and broaden this cooperation. The global challenges before us require the commitment of Member States to the goals enshrined in the United Nations Charter and call for structural and institutional reform of the Organization. We have begun the reform aimed at streamlining the functions of the United Nations and rendering its institutional structure more effective and flexible to deal with tasks which sometimes cannot be foreseen in advance. We must bear in mind that the future Organization can be only as effective as its Member States desire it to be. First, it goes without saying that we must put the United Nations on a sound financial footing and strengthen its capacity to fulfil its vital tasks. We support the proposals put forward by the European Union in this regard. A realigned scale of assessments, annual revision of the scale, phasing out the scheme of limits, lowering the assessment floor and swift implementation of the proposals in practice would be the tools to overcome the financial crisis and would certainly be an incentive for Members to regularize payments. Lithuania remains committed to its financial obligations to the Organization. We also reiterate our fundamental belief that the scale of assessments must reflect the capacity to pay. At a time when many countries, Lithuania included, are undergoing budgetary adjustments and reviews, sound management of the resources of the United Nations takes on added importance. Secondly, we believe that the functioning of United Nations decision-making bodies must be improved. The Security Council makes decisions that are binding on all Member States and influences the lives of millions. It is thus essential to make the Council more representative of the world as it is today. More specifically, Lithuania has called for increasing the representational capacity of the Security Council in both categories of membership. The Government of Lithuania recognizes that developing countries have a case for improving their representation. We also recognize that some countries, such as Germany and Japan, can make a special contribution and that they are ready to assume special political, military and financial responsibility as new permanent members. In our view, due consideration should also be given to the aspirations to an additional non-permanent seat of the countries of Eastern Europe, whose numbers have tripled in recent years. We hope for agreement on the reform of the Security Council. Lithuania supports proposals to this end and encourages stronger movement by States towards negotiations on the implementation of reform. 21 In terms of a comprehensive reform of the United Nations system, any such reform is likely to fail if there is no clear vision of its objectives and of the strategies for pursuing them. A stark reassessment of the mission and mandates is included in the United Nations medium-term plan for 1998-2001. We consider it to be a good basis for debate on the enhancement of the United Nations and for strengthening its capacity to face new emerging challenges. Lithuania, striving to make its contribution to international cooperation in the maintenance of security and stability, is determined to continue to improve the skills of its peacekeepers, civilian police monitors and military observers and will offer them to the United Nations in the service of peacekeeping operations. Lithuania, in cooperation with Estonia and Latvia, and also with Poland, is advancing the development of joint peacekeeping units, an exercise which in itself is a testimony to ultimate understanding and cooperation between countries. The costs and scope of United Nations peacekeeping operations have proliferated dramatically since 1990. One of the best ways to reduce this proliferation, and more particularly to prevent human suffering, is to implement many of the proposals put forward by the Secretary-General in his “An Agenda for Peace”, especially in terms of resolving disputes before violence breaks out. United Nations intervention too often comes too slowly and too late under very difficult circumstances. Lacking resources, the Secretary-General is sometimes expected to maintain peace where there is no will to maintain peace. We feel that the emphasis needs to be placed on strengthening the United Nations system’s preventive capacity. We may need to adopt the multidimensional approach to the concept of security, mobilize the United Nations system in order to prevent existing disputes from escalating into conflict, and attack the problem at its very roots. Lithuania welcomes measures to strengthen the United Nations administrative structures in charge of peacekeeping operations. The experience of the past few years leads us to believe that we need to explore non-traditional approaches to conflict prevention and resolution, including the Organization’s rapid response capability. While the demand in this domain still seems to be more than the United Nations is equipped for, the burden-sharing of peacekeeping with other regional organizations has to prevent the eruption of a severe crisis. The complexity of the maintenance of peace and security should not be solely a United Nations enterprise. In Europe, we have the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which operates in accordance with agreed principles and is engaged in activities to help parties to resolve disputes without recourse to fighting. Lithuania believes that any strategy for preventing armed conflicts also involves pursuing tangible disarmament objectives, especially in the areas of nuclear non-proliferation and the control of conventional arms. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty now ready for signature can be considered one of the historic decisions of this decade. Today, I signed the Treaty on behalf of the Republic of Lithuania. I believe this tangible achievement of humankind should fuel international efforts to take further effective measures towards nuclear disarmament. A major challenge immediately ahead is the maintenance of multilateral disarmament and non- proliferation efforts. We must find a key to freeze the production and development of weapons of mass destruction. The adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty should set the tone for the disarmament process which will be accompanied by the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. We must cope with new nuclear challenges, such as nuclear leakage, smuggling of fissile materials, failures in nuclear-custody systems and the potential threat of nuclear terrorism. Moreover, the dangerously widespread use of conventional weapons undermines all attempts at the peaceful solution to conflicts. Sometimes, as in the case of land-mines, the deadly consequences persist for many years, causing human suffering and resulting in enormous costs. The growing support for banning the production of and trade in anti-personnel land-mines is one way to correct this problem. Peace and development are closely linked and development is a multifaceted process. Revitalization of the United Nations in economic, social and related fields, and interaction between the United Nations and other multilateral development institutions, including the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization, should be addressed to better structure the Organization for serving peoples’ development needs. Sustainable development must be based on participatory democracy and respect for human rights. 22 Democratization must take hold inside a State and should extend to the international community. The process of democratization cannot be separated from the protection of human rights. We will continue to support United Nations programmes aimed at promoting a democratic culture and at consolidating new or re-established democracies. Humanitarian assistance efforts face the challenge of responding to humanitarian crises that have increased both in number and complexity. United Nations programmes could complement other initiatives already in place and should be expanded in those fields where collective action is required, such as in comprehensive reconstruction and rehabilitation of war-ravaged areas. Although the merits of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in facilitating solutions to acute migration problems are evident, some tendencies are cause for concern. The international community needs updated approaches in resolution and prevention policy. The Conference on Refugees and Migrants in the Commonwealth of Independent States and neighbouring countries, held in Geneva in May 1996, was a step towards action on a regional level. We hope that countries will adhere to the Programme of Action, in particular those provisions concerning illegal migration. We are in favour of strengthening mechanisms to monitor and protect human rights, especially in conflict situations. When these rights are seriously violated despite all efforts to the contrary, we are in favour of turning to judicial recourse. For this reason, we support the creation of an international criminal court for the adjudication of all human rights violations, wherever they may occur. One of the greatest challenges stymieing the efforts of the international community to ensure sustainable development and democracy is transnational crime. This often takes the form of illicit sales of arms and drugs, illicit trafficking in people, child prostitution and other crimes. No single country is able to cope with well-organized and well- financed criminal structures. We deem that efficient anti- money-laundering measures can be among the best tools to undermine the economic roots of the criminal world. The window of opportunity for greater international cooperation is wider than at any time since 1945. We must seize the moment if international cooperation is to take a decisive step forward. A reformed and streamlined United Nations, concentrating on the tasks entrusted to it in the Charter, can make considerable progress towards fulfilling the high expectations we place in it today.  ﻿I bring with me from the Kingdom of Swaziland the greetings and good wishes of His Majesty King Mswati III, Her Majesty the Indlovukazi and Queen Mother, the Government and the whole Swazi nation to our friends and fellow Members here at the United Nations. On behalf of the Kingdom of Swaziland, may I congratulate you most sincerely, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this fifty-first session of the General Assembly. We are confident that the wisdom, experience and diplomatic skills you bring to this office will ensure success in the important business before us. Swaziland would also like to congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who presided with such skill over the historic fiftieth session. I should also like to record the deep gratitude of the Swazi nation to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to the staff of the Secretariat for their untiring efforts in meeting the many challenges that face our Organization as we prepare to enter a new millennium. One year ago, His Majesty King Mswati III joined other leaders from around the world to celebrate the first 50 years of achievement of the United Nations, to set out a vision for the future and to reaffirm the commitment of the Kingdom of Swaziland to the principles set out in our Organization’s founding Charter. Swaziland recognizes the vital role the Organization has played throughout its history, and we remain convinced that the United Nations represents humankind’s best hope of providing global leadership and guidance towards achieving the conditions of universal peace and security that will allow equitable and sustainable development for all our peoples. Last year’s occasion was seen by many as an opportunity to review the internal mechanisms of our Organization and to call for greater efficiency, accountability and representation in all areas of its work. Swaziland is therefore encouraged by the progress being made by the various working groups established by the General Assembly, in particular progress towards the reform of the Secretariat and Security Council. We will continue to support all initiatives that bring about a more efficient and cost-effective Organization. As the Organization’s membership has increased over the years, so has the scope of its operations and responsibilities. It is an unfortunate fact that our will to face these new challenges has not been met by a corresponding desire to pay for the means to overcome them. We are faced with a stark choice between whether to accept new responsibilities and the bill they attract, or admit that we lack the financial commitment to meet them. The Kingdom of Swaziland has always believed in the principle of meeting our financial responsibilities in full and on time. We fully endorse the Secretary- General’s call to our fellow Members to do likewise, so that the United Nations can have the resources at its disposal to perform the tasks that we expect of it. The Kingdom of Swaziland has been most encouraged by recent developments towards the eventual elimination of weapons of mass destruction. The negotiations leading up to and the signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty by an overwhelming majority brings great credit to our Organization and to those whose hard work made it possible. While we recognize and are deeply grateful for the humanitarian assistance provided to Africa by the United Nations, we believe that the Organization needs to do more to strike at the causes of the hardship suffered by so many Africans who find themselves caught up in the horror of war. One important issue concerns the flow of weapons into Africa from many other parts of the world. It is a simple fact in today’s world that arms, ammunition and armaments are too easily accessible to those with the means to procure them. The duration of conflict situations can be limited by the non-availability of the weapons of war. It has been suggested that the first action of a truly caring world in response to a conflict situation should be to cut off the supply of arms to all involved, and that the final responsibility of a caring world towards a country that has endured conflict is the clearance of the last landmine. This is a lesson we learned very late in recent disasters such as the Bosnian crisis and in Rwanda. We have clearly not learned from it in other situations around the world. Let us hope that the global community 8 represented here can move faster in future to impose limitations on man’s ability to harm his fellow man. We in Africa recognize the need to be prepared for immediate reaction to our continent’s problems and are taking the necessary steps to abide by the principle of “African solutions to Africa’s problems”. The example of Burundi shows our continent’s desire to heed the warning signs and to ward off potential disasters before they happen. The Kingdom of Swaziland commends the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and those individual countries whose diplomacy and actions have prevented the situation from spiralling out of control. The Organization of African Unity has also been at the forefront in attempting to resolve crisis situations in Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan and Liberia. We join the rest of the world in applauding these efforts, and we continue to offer our encouragement and support in bringing about an end to the suffering of those involved. The OAU represents the hope of all Africans for unity, peace and development, and deserves to be supported strongly by the rest of the world. On a subregional basis, and in the field of economic and trade cooperation, the Kingdom of Swaziland is a member of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa. SADC has recently expanded its mandate to include a new Organ on Politics, Defence and Security. This is an attempt to provide a mechanism by which member States can call for advice and support from other members in the event of national and international issues that might threaten the stability of the whole subregion. The new organ is founded on the principle of the recognition of the sovereignty of independent States and is intended precisely to identify potential problems, in whatever context, and to look for solutions to persistent concerns in our area. The organ provides an example of our subregion’s commitment to peace and stability within and among our member States as essential conditions for the development of our separate nations. It deserves the support and encouragement of the rest of the world. The Kingdom of Swaziland has been heartened by the various initiatives of the United Nations towards an improvement in global socio-economic conditions. The establishment of an international criminal court is welcomed by Swaziland as a necessary extension of justice in cases where national jurisdiction does not apply. This step relies for its success on the political will of all States and requires the widest possible representation of Members in its operation. Similarly, the Kingdom of Swaziland welcomes the move by the United Nations to address the increasing threat posed to civil society by organized crime and money-laundering. Of particular danger to Swaziland in this regard is the increase in traffic across our borders and abuse among our people of illegal drugs and related substances. This is a relatively new and alarming phenomenon for our Kingdom and undermines our efforts to promote national development. We therefore welcome the report of the Secretary-General on promoting international cooperation in the fight against the illegal drug trade, and we are appreciative of the high priority this subject attracts in the relevant agencies of the Organization. This effort has been matched by a similar initiative within our own SADC organization to encourage cross- border cooperation among our security personnel and to agree on measures among the Member States to contain this potentially devastating problem. It has been acknowledged that the continent of Africa presents particular challenges in the quest for sustainable development and a decent standard of living for all its peoples. With this in mind, the Kingdom of Swaziland gave an enthusiastic welcome to the Secretary-General’s initiative on the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. It was hoped that the Agenda would provide fresh impetus for change and for the good of the people of Africa, but for many reasons this remains an elusive dream. While social and economic conditions in many areas of the continent continue to decline, we are comforted by the fact that efforts are being made to identify the reasons why so many commitments continue to remain on paper and why some are implemented, but slowly. Swaziland echoes the call from all African brothers and sisters for real commitment to the New Agenda for the Development of Africa so that future generations of 9 Africans will not be locked into the same spiral of despair that many people on our continent find themselves in. It is to avoid being caught in this very situation that the Kingdom of Swaziland has always worked hard to ensure that our people are at the centre of all our national development efforts. To this end the Kingdom frequently consults with all its people on all the most important development issues. Each and every Swazi has a voice and is given the opportunity to express his or her views on the matters that affect them. In recent times we have consulted in this way with the nation on our political direction and our economic priorities. Currently we are addressing ourselves to a review of our Constitution. A constitutional review committee has been established, representing the widest range of views, which will now consult with the nation and gather the people’s wishes on the way they would like to see their country managed. All will be free to contribute, and we will abide by the views of the majority. The end result will be the Kingdom’s defining document, and it will, in a very real sense, be the people’s Constitution. This current consultation exercise is the latest example of our nation’s adherence to the principle of rule through consensus, and it is one that has served us well throughout our history. In a world where the definition of such concepts as human rights and democracy can vary so greatly and is so dependent on timing and circumstances, the Kingdom of Swaziland has had a consistent vision of what is really required of its rulers by its people: to provide the freedom and opportunity for all Swazis to offer an opinion on the great matters of the day and for our leaders to be bound by the wishes of the majority. We owe our survival as a nation to this principle, and we will continue to abide by it for as long as it suits us. For the past three years the Kingdom of Swaziland has given its support to efforts by the Republic of China on Taiwan to have its case presented to the General Assembly. As the world concentrates its attention on the great social challenges facing us all today, we must surely acknowledge the need to engage all peoples of the world in a truly global effort to overcome them. Indeed, the Charter speaks of the requirement for universality in our Organization so that all may feel represented here. The 23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan believe they can contribute significantly to this effort and have already shown that they are willing to do so in many areas of expertise, including poverty alleviation, private enterprise development and humanitarian assistance. Many countries have acknowledged this will on the part of the Government and the people of the Republic of China on Taiwan, and the recent political developments in Taiwan have encouraged many others to support our call. We are positive that a lasting solution can be found to resolve this question. Hence, we support the idea of the General Assembly establishing an ad hoc committee to address the question of the readmittance of the Republic of China on Taiwan into the United Nations. The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to place its confidence in the United Nations and in the principles on which it was founded. We remain deeply grateful for the assistance we have received over the years from its agencies, and we look forward to many more years of cooperation and support. For 51 years, and despite the many obstacles in its path, the United Nations has presented to successive generations the only chance for a united, global approach to the world’s problems. We are reassured by the initiatives for reform in the Organization and look forward to a new dynamism and efficiency in its operations. I am charged by His Majesty King Mswati III, by Her Majesty the Indlovukazi, the Queen Mother, and by the Government and the people of the Kingdom of Swaziland, with proclaiming the renewal of our commitment to the founding Charter of the Organization. We ask for Almighty God’s blessing on its leaders and those who work here, to give them the wisdom and direction they need to carry out their vital tasks on behalf of all humankind.  ﻿ At the outset, allow me to congratulate Ambassador Razali on his election as President of this session of the General Assembly and to wish him success in his noble task of enhancing and strengthening the role of the United Nations. I would also like to express our thanks and appreciation to the former President of the General Assembly, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his efforts during his presidency. Half a century has elapsed since the birth of the United Nations. Mankind wanted the United Nations to be a bastion of justice, peace and human rights. It is meant to be an authority where problems are solved and truth upheld, where mankind can find an organization to defend its rights when they are usurped and stand by its side when it is threatened. In founding the United Nations, mankind wanted to put an end to wars and usher in an era of peace, of respect for the principle of State sovereignty and of safeguarding peoples’ independence and their right to self- determination and to the fulfilment of their aspirations. With the telecommunications revolution and the fall of political, economic, demographic, cultural and security boundaries and barriers, States and their peoples need an effective machinery for consultation and constructive dialogue. The scientific and technological revolution has increased our need for a greater synergy to face the complex problems of our time and to bridge the gap between the countries and nations of the world so as to enable them to implement jointly subregional and interregional projects that none can do alone. The world population explosion and the concomitant ecological degradation have made the environment incapable of meeting rising demand. Competition for natural resources and for the protection of vital interests have risen sharply. The increased number and growing sophistication of lethal nuclear, chemical and bacteriological weapons of mass destruction and the further development of their intercontinental delivery systems heightens the threat of annihilation for many countries and peoples, especially when some of the countries which possess them lack even minimal credibility. Some societies are overwhelmed by the degree of sophistication of the media, by its role and by the speed with which political, economic, social, cultural and scientific news flows through it. These societies may not be ready to assimilate and absorb this flow of information, so they react by isolating themselves, by withdrawing into seclusion, or by hiding behind the veil of tradition to protect their identity. This manifests itself in the extremism and fundamentalism these societies use to shield themselves from what is often perceived as a threat to their identity. These and other problems and challenges require invigorating the United Nations machinery and renewing confidence in its credibility, justice and efficiency, to free its decisions from hegemony, eliminate its imbalances and bring consistency to the standards it uses for the implementation of its resolutions. We must do this if we want the United Nations to remain a valuable global authority and the alternative to destructive and violent confrontation. The world has witnessed a succession of local and regional crises. Lebanon, which has suffered immensely, plagued by the wars of others on its soil, follows with concern the developments in different parts of the world. The crisis over the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates on the Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa islands has not yet been settled. We hope referring the case to the International Court of Justice will result in a settlement reaffirming the United Arab Emirates claim of sovereignty. We also support arbitration of the case of the Greater and Lesser Hanish islands between Yemen and Eritrea; both parties have agreed to such arbitration. Support for the unity, security and stability of Liberia and Angola remains a primary objective to put an end to the suffering of their peoples. Lebanon likewise supports the Republic of Cyprus in its efforts to build unity and sovereignty over all its territory to put an end to the suffering of its people and to the effects of the problem on the Government of Cyprus with respect to the reunification of the island. Lebanon has been following with grave concern the recent deterioration of the situation in Iraq and the suffering of the Iraqi people, who still lack food and other basic needs. We do not believe that the recent events 16 represent the best way to address the Iraqi problem. We call rather for the implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995), and for a commitment to the unity and sovereignty of Iraq, which would guarantee the inviolability of the geopolitical map of the Middle East. If a breach were to be opened in Iraq, the consequences would definitely extend to other extremely sensitive regions, which would further complicate the situation. Our support of the sovereignty of the State of Kuwait over all its territory prompts us to appeal for a permanent guarantee of its sovereignty and security so that we can turn the page on this bitter chapter of history once and for all. The credibility enjoyed by international law is based on its ability to find just and complete solutions to important questions. This is the mission of the United Nations and it therefore should be spared from having to intervene in less important crises. The credibility of the United Nations is still called into question and this, in turn, undermines the role of the Organization in the field of the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) has been extended despite the reservations expressed by some States, including Lebanon, on the circumstances of its extension, including Israel’s refusal to become a party to it. Israel is allowed to maintain a formidable nuclear arsenal in one of the most sensitive and volatile regions of the world without any safeguards or controls; this poses a threat to all the peoples of the region. The cessation of nuclear testing has been presented as an alternative to the NPT. Despite the many promises made prior to the extension of the NPT that Israel would ultimately accede to it, this has yet to happen. Using double standards in dealing with States can only create imbalances, which in turn increases the number of exceptions to the rule. The effectiveness of the Organization depends on the equal treatment of all States, and the United Nations remains the means to implement such policies. In this context, Lebanon enthusiastically supports enhancing the functioning and management of the Organization in all areas, particularly with regard to the scope of representation of the world’s peoples and the countries in the Security Council. Recent changes and new requirements demand more realistic geographic and numerical representation in that body. We need to eliminate the perception of hegemony that some have developed about the role and decision-making power of the Council, which they seem to believe has been seized by certain major Powers. Lebanon believes that all proposals in this regard must be carefully studied, particularly those that are compatible with the approach I have outlined and that enjoy broad support among States. I am thinking in particular of the proposals of the non-aligned countries and of Italy. In recent years, and despite the many difficult circumstances that have accompanied his years in office, the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has made commendable efforts to further global peace, security and stability. He has worked to solve problems of social and economic development as well as those of health in many parts of the world. Furthermore, he has undertaken numerous reforms within the Organization. His term has been distinguished by dynamism towards the achievement of the Organization’s primary goals. Despite the obstacles, his accomplishments are many and the world bears witness to them. This continued course, as seen in a renewed mandate, would be a basic guarantee of the stability of United Nations policies. Lebanon believes that the renewal of the Secretary-General’s mandate would make it possible to complete many projects and measures undertaken during his first term. We therefore call upon States to support his bid for a renewed, strengthened mandate. We would have very much liked our participation in this session, several years following the Madrid conference, to be an occasion for gratitude for the restoration of peace in the Middle East. We had hoped to express our gratitude to the countries, peoples and organizations which have tried to bring about this peace. Five years have passed since the Madrid peace conference, not counting the preparatory year. At the time, we welcomed the initiative and believed in the sponsorship and the subject matter of the conference. The sponsors were two influential Powers, and the substance was geared towards the achievement of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace on the basis of the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), and with regard to Lebanon, Security Council resolution 425 (1978), as well as the principle of land for peace. We accepted the invitation and thought that the others who accepted it had also agreed to its substance, and that the only pending issues would be implementation, scheduling and mechanisms. But years have passed, and instead of moving forward towards implementation, Israel has reneged on its commitments and has tried to move away from what was already done. As soon as the new Israeli Government was in power, it adopted its manifesto: “The four No’s” — no to the withdrawal from the occupied Syrian Golan; no to 17 the withdrawal from the occupied West Bank; no to the settlement of the question of Jerusalem; and no to recognition of the national rights of the Palestinian people in a State of their own. To the contrary, the principle of land for peace has been replaced by the principle of peace for security, meaning refraining from waging a new war. Instead of fulfilling commitments, formulas must be changed. Instead of Madrid, there is the unknown. Instead of putting an end to settlements, settlements are being expanded. A tunnel is now being built under the Al-Aqsa Mosque, in a clear act of provocation to the people’s sensitivities. We were asked to shake hands, to offer recognition and to normalize relations without knowing what will happen to our rights. We, the victims of aggression, are asked to give security guarantees to the aggressor. Those who do not possess weapons are asked to give assurances to those who have one of the largest nuclear arsenals in the world and who could not be convinced to accede to the NPT when other countries have been forced to accept its indefinite extension. Since the new Israeli Government came to power, it has backed away from the peace process, although occasional misleading steps are made. The new Government of Israel has resorted to a meaningless media campaign to disguise its rejection of peace. We first heard the “Lebanon first” slogan, but this too was void of any meaning except as an attempt at isolation and to serve the purposes of the media campaign. We then heard of the meeting between the Palestinian and Israeli presidents. Once again, the occasion was exploited, but meaning remained absent. It has become clear that the objective of the Israeli Government was to numb world public opinion and undo what was agreed upon at the peace conference and the ensuing negotiations. It is perfectly clear that Israel does not have a policy for peace. It only has a policy of changing formulas, a policy of threats and challenges, a policy that Israel can use to further its expansionist and settlement schemes. Just as the world was on the verge of believing that peace had become possible in the Middle East region, here we are facing the unknown, facing the worst. Some States in the region wanted to precipitate the earlier optimism by moving to normalize relations. Now they bear the burden of Israeli logic. Now the peoples of the region have been thrust back into an era of inevitable confrontation, violence, and resistance. No sooner had the development plans of the Middle East region been put into place and the world was showing interest in a future of peace than mistrust and pessimism returned to prevail. No sooner had the historic opportunity for the realization of a great dream begun to crystallize than this opportunity started to fade, leaving the peoples of the region with only one alternative — to confront occupation, arbitrary rule and obstinacy — since all international peace efforts are failing. Today’s violence in Palestine and in southern Lebanon is a direct result of the negative positions of the Israeli Government. It presages dire consequences should the peace process collapse. Since the Madrid Conference, the United States has tried, through two successive presidencies, to push the peace process forward towards settlement. In order to do so, the United States requested that the peace process be taken out of the context of the United Nations and the Security Council and be confined to the mechanisms defined at Madrid. The United States sought to reassure Israel by all military, material and economic means available, even to the detriment of the Arabs, with the idea of reviving the confidence of the Israelis. Then the United States imposed concepts to increase guarantees given to Israel to consolidate the peace process, which were provisionally accepted, despite the fact that they were unsound. Today, these efforts are threatened by the party that benefited from them in the first place. Today, the President of the United States will try to bring together the parties concerned, pursuing his responsibility to salvage the peace. Israel will continue to manoeuvre, and will exploit the occasion provided by United States presidential elections to undermine the steps that were already in place. They will foil the efforts of the United States, which we supported even though these called for a continued and somewhat iniquitous tolerance of Israel, despite the fact that Israel’s excesses had always been covered by assurances for the sake of peace. We must return to the foundations of peace as announced at Madrid, resume the negotiations from where they were interrupted and realize that the opportunity for peace which had started to crystallize still presents a historic opportunity. It must be recognized that what was achieved at Madrid is the only foundation acceptable to the people of the region. If peace is ever to be salvaged in the Middle East, this is the only way to achieve it. Lebanon has for many years suffered the aftermath and consequences of the Middle East crisis and has paid 18 a heavy toll. Today, through domestic political measures, security, development and economic achievements, Lebanon is once again proving that it can confront difficulties and face challenges. Lebanon is showing that its national unity, the restoration of full sovereignty over its territory and respect for its independence are inevitably more solidly inherent in its existence than some might believe. In the future, if peace is safeguarded, Lebanon will prove that its history is larger than its geographical borders and that its role by far exceeds its size. When Lebanon regains its sovereignty over all of its territories now under Israeli occupation, when the United Nations has restored its credibility by implementing Security Council resolution 425 (1978) on an equal footing with resolutions relating to other parts of the world, when Lebanese citizens are released from Israeli detention camps where they are imprisoned with only minimal human rights, then and only then will the bleeding stop and the wound heal. The Middle East is tired of being an active volcano threatening world peace. We have for too long been robbed of peace to the detriment of the entire world. Opportunities will not forever remain for those seeking peace. The peace which we sought and for which we have long appealed is threatened today. The failure of our endeavours to achieve peace will close the door to any new attempt in the foreseeable future. If reviving peace is a difficult job, the ramifications of failure will be even more difficult for the whole world. The days when problems were confined to national boundaries are well over, and so are the days when boundaries were walls keeping crises contained. We hope that peace is still possible. But it must be a just peace, not a despoiling one; a real peace, not a theatrical one; an equitable peace not an iniquitous one. It must be a peace that calms rather than one that fans the anger of peoples. May God forever guide the steps of those who seek and work for peace, and inspire those who still oppose it.﻿A year ago, from this same rostrum, I began my statement by reading some 10 hair-raising news items of the moment from the international press, on bellicose conflicts, violence and death in the cities and deadly epidemics claiming new victims. Intending to do this again today, I found that the situation remains the same, or is perhaps even worse. Unfortunately, the world wasted another 12 months without doing anything to stop such catastrophic events. As if it were necessary to illustrate this with specific facts, even as we gathered here we once again witnessed the bloodshed of the heroic Palestinian people. First and foremost, I denounce the new Israeli aggression and the policy of hegemony that defends these acts, and I express support for our Palestinian brothers in their struggle for their legitimate right to finally have an independent state, with Jerusalem its capital. Also about a year ago, the Prime Minister of Malaysia, the country of the President of the General Assembly, very rightly stated that the United Nations should support the collective needs of peoples and nations in order to serve humanity as a whole, and that it was therefore necessary to correct the trend of making them an instrument of the wealthy and the powerful. Today it must be recognized that we are meeting again without having removed that danger. Hence, in expressing my Government’s satisfaction at having President Razali lead us in our work, I cannot but express confidence that his diplomatic professionalism, his personal achievements and his long and proven experience in the work of this Organization will give him strength in leading us in a remarkably difficult and complex session of the General Assembly. Far from being more democratic and universal, the Organization in which we come together today is tending to tighten more and more the exclusive circle of those who govern it. The just demands heard from this rostrum are now sounding the alarm at the march of ideas being promoted mainly in our host country. Just a few weeks ago, the Chairman of the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee issued an ultimatum for the United Nations to carry out reforms in accordance with the prescriptions of that country or else face the consequences. His articles in renowned publications question precisely the principles on which this institution is founded, particularly the principle of sovereign equality of States. For this influential United States politician and those who identify themselves with his primitive views, there is only one argument: some States deserve more privileges than others. In this way they try to make a dead letter of the principle of sovereign equality of States, the cornerstone of the Charter adopted over 50 years ago in San Francisco. But there is more: the Government of the United States of America, which owes the United Nations the shameful amount of over $1.5 billion, assumes, with no embarrassment whatsoever, the right to determine unilaterally who can or cannot be the Secretary-General of the United Nations and to declare how an Organization deliberately deprived of the resources required for the fulfilment of its functions should or should not be managed. Eighty per cent of the work of the United Nations system is devoted to assisting the developing countries and to strengthening their ability to help themselves. This endeavour includes the aspiration to receive fair treatment in international economic relations; to try to save children from starvation and disease; to promote emergency assistance to refugees and disaster victims; to attempt to combat crime, drug addiction and disease; to promote education and the development of human resources; and to tackle the enormous task of halting or slowing the progressive ecological deterioration of our planet. These are precisely the functions that the notorious United States Senator is trying to abolish, and it is because of the existence of those programmes that the managerial approach of the Secretary-General is so fiercely attacked. That position of the planet’s most powerful country is not aimed against one person; rather, using the question of the Organization’s efficiency as a pretext, it stands against the United Nations mandate to attend to the needs of the great majority of mankind. It is a new and gross attempt to impose on the community of nations the will of a single State in the management of the multilateral forum of cooperation that should be the most representative and democratic one in the world. We should ask ourselves if we, the members of this Assembly, can passively accept the threat posed by this unilateral imposition. It is fitting to recall what Harry 24 Truman said of the Charter of the United Nations at the San Francisco Conference in 1945: “If we fail to use it, we shall betray all those who have died in order that we might meet here in freedom and safety to create it. “If we seek to use it selfishly — for the advantage of any one nation or any small group of nations — we shall be equally guilty of that betrayal.” (Documents of the United Nations Conference on International Organization, San Francisco, 1945, vol. 1, p. 687) Further comment is unnecessary; subsequent history has been quite eloquent enough. But the most dangerous thing, as has often been said, is that the United Nations is merely the reflection of the world in which we live. This domineering unilateralism shows up even more crudely in the daily conduct of international relations. In a world in which relations of respect, good-neighbourliness and cooperation among the peoples and Governments should be fostered every day, the fact is that one Power, resting on its unquestionable economic, military and technological might, seeks to impose rules and norms of conduct on the rest of the world, thus undermining the sovereign rights of each and every one of our nations. What political, legal or moral reason underlies and legitimizes the missile attack against the Republic of Iraq by the United States Armed Forces just a few days ago? What principles or claims can be used to cover up the unilateral and unjustified use of force? The Security Council did not yield to that unilateral aggression, but it has not been able to formulate a clear position on the matter because of its well-known structural and procedural deficiencies and also because of the tolerance and impunity with which the international community has recently accepted the haughty arrogance of a Government that assumes the right to punish sovereign nations at its whim under spurious pretexts. There is no justification for trampling the territorial integrity of a full-fledged Member of this Organization, and even less for that action to be taken by a single Government, nor for threatening the peace and security of a region inhabited by tens of millions of persons. And all this has taken place while the political experts of the aggressor country could not agree on which was its strongest motivation: the wretched oil interests or the frenzy of the ongoing carnival-like electoral campaign in the United States. It is incredible that world politics can be paralysed, that foreign ministries postpone decisions and that Governments advance or delay responses to national or international dilemmas, thinking only of their repercussions in that North American simulacrum of democracy. Anything can happen, and no country, legal precept or moral principle seems to be safe. Fortunately, the super-elections are held only every four years, because if they took place annually, like the sessions of the General Assembly, living on this planet would be true madness. The Helms-Burton Act, aimed against everyone’s sovereignty and against Cuba, a sovereign State, was conceived as an additional effort to subdue our people through hunger and poverty. It is an eloquent example of the absurd will to impose imperial designs on sovereign and independent countries in the conduct of their own international and trade relations. For that reason, it has been unanimously rejected by the international community. That law, ignoring the General Assembly resolutions on the issue, is intended to strengthen further the blockade against our country. For a century — and especially during the last 37 years — the Cuban people have had to face the hegemonic vocation of successive United States Governments. The extraterritorial ambitions of our neighbour, its attempts to question the sovereign decisions of another State and its violation of the universally recognized principles of international trade are realities with which Cuba has been familiar for a long time. When we denounced the crime that was about to take place, it was neither to frighten nor to play with anyone. The Helms-Burton Act, the most sophisticated bungle of the economic war against Cuba, attacks many countries and compels them to experience in their own sovereignty what we Cubans have been facing for a long time. The world can now better understand what so many years of continuous offences and extraterritorial acts have meant for my homeland. Another instance of unipolarity and of the attempt to dictate the conduct of sovereign States is the law known as D’Amato-Kennedy, which has also received universal repudiation. It repeats the philosophy of imposition and ratifies the tendency to apply United States law beyond its borders. The argument for this is the alleged war against terrorism, when, in fact, the United States was the main promoter of terrorism in its dirty wars in Nicaragua, El Salvador, Angola and South Africa, against the 25 Palestinian patriots and in many other countries — the United States has always supported the bloodiest regimes that have ever existed in this world. There are just causes and unjust causes. No one will ever have the right to kill innocent people, regardless of the objectives being pursued. This does not negate any people’s right to use weapons against its oppressors: to fight cleanly, yes; to kill innocents, never. A State cannot be allowed to arrogate to itself the right to accuse, condemn and sanction other nations and to impose by force an illegitimate crusade that often serves to disguise the real terrorists. Cuba — which has been the victim of many terrorist actions and has for many years faced repeated attempts on the lives of its political leaders, as well as sabotage, biological warfare, the destruction of a passenger plane in flight and the hijacking of aircraft, and which suffers even today from armed infiltrations and which has been, above all, the victim of brutal economic terrorism — expects a joint and conscious effort from the international community to address the terrorism that has its origins in Langley, Virginia — that is to say, at the Central Intelligence Agency — and later spreads to many countries of the world. Drug trafficking, in our opinion, should be dealt with in the same manner. The drug issue should not be transformed into an instrument of pressure against underdeveloped countries, many of which do not have sufficient resources to tackle this scourge. This problem has taken on global dimensions and can be confronted only by sharing responsibilities and using the mechanisms offered by the United Nations. The policy of conferring arbitrary certifications is unacceptable, and even more so is its use as a pretext to interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign nations. The country whose enormous rates of consumption have become the main market for and driving force behind this criminal industry, the country in whose territory the greatest profits of this business are generated, does not have the moral authority to assign responsibility to or demand it from others. What would happen if the world, truly concerned by the scourge of drugs, were to decertify unanimously the greatest drug consumer? To put it another way, people who live in glass houses should not throw stones, and he who has a beam in his eye should not be so concerned about the mote in another’s. No one can disregard the immense influence of the United States in the so-called post-cold-war period, but mankind would be making a mistake if it were to look with indifference upon the currents of thought within that country that entertain the possibility of governing the rest of the world or of acting with utter disregard for the rights and interests of other peoples. We are facing a King Kong escaped from his cage, destroying and crushing everything around him, aimlessly and out of control. We are not trying to convince this forum that the United States is the source of all the evils of the planet, but it would be a mistake to ignore reality and not to take timely preventive actions — preferably collective ones — to admonish to sanity the persons charged with guiding that country politically, to do so with a minimum of responsibility and to understand that the power of any nation, important as it might be, has its limits. The world is more plagued by uncertainty today than when the new world order was demagogically proclaimed. On the threshold of the new millennium, the numbers of armed conflicts between States, ethnic groups and religions have increased. What we see everywhere is not a new order but, rather, a disquieting world in perfect disorder. The social and economic consequences of these conflicts have no parallel in contemporary history, but we cannot simply pretend that military imposition, coercion and sanctions are a universal panacea that can solve the numerous humanitarian problems of the world. Inequalities, rampant underdevelopment, globalization and the interdependence that is increasingly turning into the worst form of dependency should disappear so that these new conflicts may, in turn, be eradicated for ever from this world, which, based on injustice, is becoming increasingly ungovernable. Economic models based on neoliberal philosophy have spread throughout much of the third world with the support of the international financial institutions. Although these models have generated deceptive, apparently attractive macroeconomic indicators, in practice they go hand in hand with an increase in poverty, marginalization, environmental degradation, disease, ignorance, social conflict, a loss of national resources and sovereignty — in short, with the most brutal and increasingly irreversible underdevelopment. This neoliberal school of thought is based on artificial paradigms that should be unmasked. It is false that the market, with its magical invisible hand, is the definitive solution for the immense disruptions affecting the international economy and that it is the miraculous 26 remedy that would liberate many countries, home to the vast majority of the earth’s population, from underdevelopment and poverty. It is false that absolute privatization, which can benefit only the few, brings well-being to the legions of the poor and the wretched living in the third world. It is false that geography determines the economic power of peoples. It is false that genetics determines which human beings are born to be poor and wretched and which are born under the shining star of wealth and extravagance. It is false that the State or Government is the main source of corruption and inefficiency and should renounce responsibility for welfare, health and education, leaving these obligations mainly in private hands whose motivations will always be limited and discriminatory and are frequently based on greed. It is false that the poor, the oppressed and the exploited should have a lesser role in ultra-modern societies. It is false that social justice and equity always have to be sacrificed for the sake of commercial efficiency. It is false that the total removal of protection for national industries in the developing countries will yield higher productivity, wealth, employment and well-being for their peoples. It is false that the sovereignty of nations is an outmoded principle of international coexistence and that Governments and countries are ready to abandon it because of the strength of transnational capital and the social- political models exported by the North. Finally, it is false that the neoliberal models that have been sold to us will raise the indicators or levels of human development set as objectives by the United Nations. One should check the statistics and compare annual reports, not just between one country and another, but also between indicators for the third world from one year to the next in areas such as infant mortality, poverty, education, life expectancy, access to drinking water, human settlements, schooling for children, and doctors per number of inhabitants. All these falsities, many of them recorded in United Nations documents, hide the bankruptcy of development prospects for most of the poor countries, which is already threatening world stability and aggravating the ecological deterioration we all recognized several years ago at the historic Rio Conference. The poor are already falling into the immense and ever wider chasm separating them from the rich, who continue to grow disproportionately and irresponsibly without realizing that sooner or later their own weight will also drag them down into the same pit. And, in this aberrant context, what are we to say about the arms race? The rivalry between the big Powers and the arms race have supposedly disappeared. Why, then, in spite of the adoption of international instruments supposedly to that end, is there such resistance to real nuclear disarmament that will free humanity for ever from that scourge? Who is responsible for the fact that the recently adopted Treaty to ban all nuclear tests does not cover simulated laboratory tests in which new lethal weapons will be perfected by those who monopolize them, or any commitment to the destruction of arsenals? Unless we discover life in other galaxies, where will the enemies endangering the big Powers come from? Fifty-one years after the creation of the United Nations, instead of seeing wealth and development extend from the North to the South, we see the growing threat of underdevelopment moving inexorably from the South to the North. It is said that hunger and poverty are on the rise. In fact, what has also happened is that wealth is more and more concentrated, increasingly exclusive and limited, while walls higher than the one that fell in Berlin are being built. Let us be frank: the North is not as rich as it seems, nor is the South as poor as they want to make it. Almost all the wealth of the North comes from the wealth and resources of the South. And all the hunger and poverty of the South is nothing other than the legacy of over 500 years of exploitation and disregard for our human rights. If we cannot reverse this situation collectively, by sharing the burden and improving living conditions in the developing countries, no one will be able to stop the waves of migrants attracted by the siren’s song of wealthy and opulent societies. The United Nations has a vast arsenal of documents, resolutions and initiatives conceived for those purposes 27 but never implemented. Soon it will be too late. Today we can still act. While all this is happening, the blockade of Cuba continues. With the Helms-Burton Act, it has become even clearer that it is not just an embargo, because in the last few months, the United States, through its words and deeds, has sent the world sure signals that what is really being waged against my country is a long and dirty economic war for total control over our sovereignty and our markets. The criminal blockade, as part of its frightening network of measures created over 35 years, has now a Draconian law that publicly calls for a world crusade to change forcibly the Cuban constitutional order and undo a revolution defended by our people at the cost of their lives. What have we come to when United States diplomats, on the ugliest mission since the Viet Nam war, tell the world that they are granting it a few months’ sovereignty before trampling upon it if the world does not join their war on Cuba? I am fulfilling the mandate bestowed on me by the free people of Cuba to proclaim in front of the international community of nations that we will persevere in our efforts to defend our social, political and economic actions aimed at ensuring equality, justice and well-being for all Cubans. Our own experience is the best contribution we can make as a nation towards meeting the enormous challenges facing humanity, as has been shown by Cuba’s economic, political and social achievements in the last year. A country that has overcome a serious economic crisis, that maintains its governability, that grows and develops with the solidarity of many, that expands its relations throughout the world and that grows stronger — this is a country with a future. The socialism we have chosen for our homeland is our only emancipatory, moral and ethical alternative, with roots firmly planted in the history of our nation. It is a path that we chose in freedom and sovereignty, a path that we shall not renounce and that no one imposed on us. We wish to live in harmony with all the countries of the world, including the United States. Cuba wants and needs peace. But let us be clear: Cuba is not and never will be willing to sacrifice, under pressure from anyone or in exchange for anything, the independence, sovereignty and self-determination that it has achieved and defended at such a high price. Today, in that blue Caribbean that shelters us, we Cubans will continue with our heads held high, with our feet on the ground and with our eyes on the future. Thus do we defend our choice: to live in the free and sovereign homeland dreamed of by our founding fathers and achieved by our fathers and grandfathers. Let there be no doubt. We shall overcome.﻿I am happy to acknowledge a Malaysian as the President of the General Assembly, a first for Malaysia. We are thankful to all Member States for their support, especially the members of the Asian Group, which endorsed Malaysia’s candidature early. I would like to think that the selection has to do with Malaysia’s efforts and involvement, with the United Nations and globally. Within three years of Malaysia’s independence, we were involved in United Nations peacekeeping operations in the Congo. Today in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Malaysia is perhaps the only developing country participating in the peacekeeping forces led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), paying in full the cost of our involvement. Malaysia will continue to participate in international activities, United Nations- sponsored or otherwise, combining altruism with enlightened self-interest. This time last year, there was much celebration as the United Nations attained its fiftieth year. Amid the celebrations extolling the achievements of the United Nations, there were serious concerns expressed about the relevance and effectiveness of this Organization and the need for democratic reforms so that the United Nations could better fulfil the purposes and principles of the Charter. The fiftieth anniversary came and went and, despite the extravaganza, very little has been achieved. The Organization itself remains far removed from the aspirations of the peoples of the United Nations, which it is supposed to promote and protect. Hopefully, the tragedy of Bosnia and Herzegovina will, with international help, be on the mend, but Palestine’s hopes and aspirations have been undermined by the new Israeli Government, which is backed, unfortunately, by some Western Powers, and is backtracking on painfully negotiated agreements. At this moment, a rash decision by Israel not only imperils further the peace process, with lives being lost, but can inflame and outrage Muslim States and Muslim society if the sanctity of the Al-Aqsa Mosque is defiled. In Africa, Somalia, Rwanda and Liberia remain on the razor’s edge of survival, and Burundi awaits United Nations and regional initiatives to avoid a catastrophe. And there are countries such as Afghanistan, victims of the cold war, abandoned by the major Powers, needing help to reconstruct and overcome the destruction wrought by war. And what will be the fate of tiny Chechnya and its valiant people, facing the full onslaught of mighty Russia? While some developing countries become fragmented and marginalized, the process of accruing power and benefits continues with the major countries, aided by their control of the Security Council, their monopoly on nuclear power and their economic high ground. One sees various twists and turns, double standards and selectivity, as the dictates of domestic 6 politics overrule justice and humanitarianism in international affairs. Commitment to multilateralism is so qualified and investment in the United Nations so tentative that common needs have often been sacrificed. Now, as the General Assembly begins its fifty-first session, we urge again that the international community work collectively for substantial change, reflecting a more equitable sharing of political and economic power. This call for reform is made even more urgent when we consider that the premises by which international relations are conducted today continue to perpetuate a grossly unjust system. The systematic abuse of power by the major countries has continued. They apply selective sanctions and double standards on the developing world to promote their narrow national interests. Clearly disregarding multilateralism, with its inherent qualities of mutual respect and shared interests, the North continues its vice-like grip on all spheres of international activity, including politics, international trade, development, the environment and the media to name a few. Elitism exercised by the major countries is frequently cloaked in the guise of globalism or of serving the common interests of nations. However even a cursory examination of this brand of globalism reveals it to be sanctimonious, if not hypocritical. For example, under the pretext of safeguarding international peace and security, the nuclear- weapon States maintain their right to destroy, or threaten to destroy, all life on this planet. Yet these countries deny others even the right to use conventional weapons for self- defence. Malaysia deeply regrets the lack of a consensus on the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty but welcomes its subsequent adoption at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We worry about nuclear aspirations in our region and in Israel. To a large extent, the refusal of the nuclear-weapon States to adopt a timetable for nuclear disarmament is responsible for this situation and seriously flaws the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Malaysia is encouraged by the recent International Court of Justice Advisory Opinion on the legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons. To render the Court’s finding meaningful, there should be serious efforts made towards accelerating the process of nuclear disarmament, including the early convening of a special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament. While these major Powers advocate peace and condemn arms races by others, their industries aggressively develop and promote the sales of defence technologies and weapons of death. Like a drug dealer supplying his helplessly addicted victims, the northern-based arms industries keep poor countries mired in a cycle of poverty and insecurity, laying waste vital human skills and resources. Perhaps such political elitism comes naturally to these powerful countries, many of which were imperial Powers before. A clue as to their priorities for the global agenda is to be found in the recent communiqué of the economic summit of the Group of Seven. Reform of the United Nations, in particular the Security Council, as an urgent issue, gave way to the pre-eminence of the globalization of the world economy. And so, the Security Council remains a blunt instrument of the foreign policies of the permanent members. In the context of a globalized world, much is made of the terms “interdependence” and “mutual interests”. Multilateralism has been elbowed aside. Yet multilateralism is the foundation of the international relations and cooperation which the United Nations symbolizes. From now on, globalization will take over and nations will lose their sovereignty. Consider the current financial crisis that faces this Organization. The United Nations is on the verge of bankruptcy, being held to ransom by its major donor country, the wealthiest nation in the world. That country refuses to meet its assessed and legally due contributions, yet insists on maintaining its hegemony on global management. The major Powers’ solution to the United Nations stalemate is to speak of revitalizing the United Nations as if they were conducting a corporate downsizing exercise. While it is important to end bureaucratic inefficiencies and the wasteful use of resources, we should be mindful that the United Nations is not a business. Overconcentration on internal-management issues can deflect the attention of the United Nations from its major global responsibilities. While Malaysia is critical of the United Nations and its leadership, we cannot but regret the tendency of major Powers to assign the United Nations complex tasks, missions impossible, without clear mandates and authority or adequate resources. How does the United Nations undertake peacekeeping operations without the authority or the means to keep the peace? We find the inequities of power-sharing in the United Nations to be intolerable and view with alarm 7 prevailing trends towards weakening this Organization further. Already, the centre of gravity for all principal economic decisions that affect developing countries lies in the undemocratic Bretton Woods institutions, the World Trade Organization (WTO) and of course the self-appointed Group of Seven. Strengthening multilateralism requires a reform of the Bretton Woods institutions, which dominate the development scene. These institutions are operating against their general mandate. Decision-making is undemocratic and untransparent. Despite their specific mandates to facilitate development and regulate the international monetary system, these institutions are used to discipline third-world countries and to act as debt collectors for the rich North. It is salutary to note that the World Bank collected a net amount of $7.2 billion in 1995 in debt repayment over and above what it disbursed in aid to the poor indebted countries and raked in a profit of almost $1.5 billion. The International Monetary Fund has now become an enforcer of the dictates of market lenders and is assuming the role of a global rating agency. The majority of poor developing countries are saddled with unsustainable levels of debt that preclude them from a share of world prosperity and growth. Debt servicing on current scales is untenable and debtor countries, as a consequence, can do little to alleviate their poverty and misery. The chilling numbers speak for themselves - more is spent on servicing debt than on financing basic programmes for health care, education and humanitarian relief. The reductions in the commitments for concessional assistance by almost all the industrial countries mark a turning point in international development cooperation. Bluntly put, the rich have reneged on solemn commitments and pledges. The cut-backs in pledges for the replenishment of international development assistance and the unwillingness to clear earlier arrears, triggered by a unilateral decision of the major contributor to scale back its contributions, have led other donors to scale back their contributions as well. Now that the concept of globalism is so intimately linked with international trade, it is important critically to examine the realities of this so called “free trade”. The painfully long history of the Uruguay Round negotiations should have forewarned us that the WTO, although established as a rules-based multilateral organization to regulate international trade, will become answerable only to the world’s wealthiest economic Powers. Like the Bretton Woods institutions, the WTO remains outside any relationship of accountability to the far more democratic United Nations General Assembly. During the Uruguay Round, the developing countries discovered that, instead of negotiating international rules on trade in manufactured goods, the rich countries of the North had widened the agenda and pushed for liberalization in economic areas where they clearly have an advantage, in particular, financial services and investments. Even though some countries of the South have benefited from the liberalization of trade — and Malaysia is one of them — the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) nevertheless harbours new threats to developing and newly emerging economies. Not only have the poor countries of the South to struggle uphill merely to meet the basic needs of their peoples, but they are now bullied into adjusting their economic policies to meet their new obligations under GATT so that northern- based corporations can penetrate and capture their markets. The poor may not reserve their markets for themselves even when they have no capacity to penetrate the markets of the rich. Fair competition and level playing fields are only for the rich. For example, their attempts to link the environment and labour standards to trade in manufactured goods is a clear attempt to deny developing countries their meagre competitive advantage. The relationship between trade and labour standards emerged not because of a concern for the well-being of workers in poor countries, but as protectionist moves aimed against growing and competitively-priced imports from the South. To compound this unfair interpretation of the multilateral trade rules, we find that, when it comes to the transfer of technology, the northern countries take a fiercely anti-liberal stand, insisting that all WTO member States compulsorily introduce a set of national laws to protect intellectual property rights. Since most patents are owned by the North, this in effect means legal protection of their technological monopoly and a drastic curtailment of the right of developing countries to have access to new technology. It appears, therefore, that the northern interpretation of “free trade” and “liberalization” are slogans that in reality mean liberalization when it benefits the North but protectionism if it can block the South. Thus, while goods and capital are permitted and encouraged to move around 8 the globe, labour and technology may not. Even as we are asked to submit to GATT rules and the WTO, we find one country blatantly undermining the WTO by enacting extraterritorial laws that must be submitted to by all nations and their companies on pain of excommunication. The GATT also fails to protect the genetic resources of the South while allowing genetically modified materials to be patented. We now have a situation where theft of genetic resources by western biotech transnational corporations enables them to make huge profits by producing patented genetic mutations of these same materials. To what depths have we sunk in the global marketplace when nature’s gifts to the poor may not be protected but their modification by the rich becomes exclusive property? There are of course many winners and losers in the world of the WTO, but we are concerned that the major losers will soon again be the poorest and most marginalized countries. A small number of developing countries, like Malaysia, have benefited. But let me point out that our gains have been achieved through thrift, productivity and the ingenuity of our people, hard-earned fruits of our labour. Lest it be forgotten, our new-found prosperity has also benefited those in the developed countries. Our products are competitively priced, thus contributing to lower inflation in the rich countries. Our prosperity has provided vast and expanding markets for the goods of rich countries, thus creating jobs and helping to lower their unemployment rates. The term “globalization” has become the buzzword of our times. In the G-7 communiqué, globalization was touted as “a source of hope for the future ... responsible for the expansion of wealth and prosperity in the world.” (A/51/208, annex II, para. 2) However, some would argue that globalization, with its objectives of breaking down borders and sucking the countries of the world into one single economic entity, has eclipsed multilateralism or attempts to masquerade as the same thing. Indeed, globalization has been described by the rich as a “new global partnership for development”. (ibid., annex II, IV) If the current behaviour of the rich countries is anything to go by, globalization simply means the breaking down of the borders of countries so that those with the capital and the goods will be free to dominate the markets. Colonies in the former British Empire will remember “Imperial Preference” when they were made the exclusive markets of the metropolitan Power. Globalization can mean just that, except that the world market will belong to the rich nations. Linkages to non-trade issues will prevent the poor from ever challenging the rich, in the same way that the colonies were not allowed to industrialize. We do indeed live in a brutal and unjust world, where the astonishing developments in science and technology and our increasingly sophisticated knowledge base are not matched by the ability of Governments to marshal forces to overcome the social and economic inequities of their countries. The facts and figures are well documented and widely known, but they are worth repeating just to jog our conscience — if we still have one. What are the universal values of this globalized world when increasing numbers of people in both the North and South live in abject poverty? A fifth of the human race — 1.3 billion people — lack access to the most basic necessities, such as food and clean drinking water, while preventable hunger and disease kill 35,000 children throughout the world every day. The 1996 United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Report states that, in the past 40 years, the richest 20 per cent of people have seen the differential between themselves and the poorest 20 per cent double. Are we expected to believe in the sincerity of the rich countries when they talk about a new global partnership and the achievement of sustainable development, when the fact is that, today, we have over 20 million environmental refugees in addition to an equal number of traditional refugees? Why should the developing countries accept the twisted lexicon of northern development-speak when “development assistance” means that the net flow of wealth from poor countries to rich has increased to at least $400 billion a year when the terms of trade, transfer pricing, debt servicing and the brain drain are taken into account. Wading through the obstacles of this strife-torn world is a critical dilemma that faces the international community today. It is one of international leadership and the failure to deal with these critical issues. Instead, we witness a persistent abnegation by the major Powers of the responsibilities that accompany the rights and privileges of such authority. We must determine the type 9 of world and society we want to live in, and this should be based on truly universal values. As we approach the next millennium and as the pre-eminence of transnational forces has blurred the definition of national sovereignty, we must seriously question why a powerful minority is still allowed to bankrupt and coerce the majority to meet its narrow economic and political needs. The poor are no longer independent. They have already lost control over their own currency. And now they have lost their borders too. Freedom of the press is touted as a basic democratic principle. But control of the media by a handful of western corporations has made nonsense of this principle. Proclaiming to be windows on the world, the western media, manipulated and censored by those in control, invariably manage to distort reports so as to put anything happening in the South in the worst possible light. Anything positive in the developing countries is ignored. The growth and influence of electronic, satellite and information technology is astounding. But its impact poses one of the biggest political and ethical challenges of our time, subverting and distorting our social consciousness. The elites of the North and the South have become blind to the enormities of reality. Events and people are stripped of their context, so that we become less capable of recognizing the common humanity and equal rights of all the people in the world. Pictures of poverty and inequality are no longer received with moral outrage, but have become simple facts of life. Thus begins the process of dehumanization and disengagement from the rest of human society. Although without a doubt the information age will bring cheap and easy access to knowledge and education and facilitate worldwide business, its abuse is already affecting the moral values of the world. Smut and violence gratuitously distributed by criminals in the North are no less polluting than carbon dioxide emissions nor less dangerous than drug trafficking. If one great Power can apply its laws to citizens of another country it considers to be guilty of drug trafficking, why cannot countries with different moral codes extradite the traffickers of pornography for legal action under the laws of the offended countries? Why cannot there be international laws and international courts to punish those who spread filth and incite racial hatred and racial violence? Before the whole world sinks deeper into moral decay, the international community should act. Abuse of the ubiquitous Internet system must be stopped. The monopoly of the electronic media by the North should be broken. As it is, we are getting slanted news, made worse by broadcasters interpreting in favour of their own or their countries’ interests. As usual, the poor countries with no role in operating the international media have become the principal victims of world news networks. Not only are distorted pictures of our countries being broadcast, but our own capacity to understand what is happening is being undermined. In the past, Western missionaries spread the Gospel. Today the media has taken over, and all our cherished values and diverse cultures are being destroyed. The United Nations has not always been a failure. In its early years it helped to dismantle the empires of Western European countries. Malaysia is grateful to it, for it too won freedom because of the moral suasion of the United Nations. But the United Nations now seems blind to what is being done to Iraq and Chechnya. One great Power continues its vendetta against Iraq, firing missiles at distant targets to bring the Iraqi leadership to its knees, oblivious to the sufferings of the besieged Iraqi people. Another Power has shut the gates of mercy on the Chechens, and with rockets and bombs has killed indiscriminately and with appalling brutality in order that Chechnya should remain part of an empire. How much more should the Chechens suffer before the Security Council takes notice? Where are the vaunted defenders of human rights who claim that national borders will not stop them? It is a fact that every year many statements are made at the United Nations that lament the crises of poverty, third-world debt, human rights abuses, conflicts and wars, social disintegration and environmental degradation. It is almost boring. And yet nothing much has been done which could bring about an amelioration of this sad state of affairs. Perhaps it is because the processes of intergovernmental consensus decision-making of the United Nations are tedious and frustrating. Perhaps it is mismanagement by the Governments of so many poor nations which afford many excuses for the rich not to help. It is of course easy to use the United Nations as a forum to unmask the hypocrisies of both the North and the South, but it is more difficult to work collectively to implement change and solve problems. Still, Malaysia believes that this repetitive criticism is valid and necessary, that international injustice and oppression 10 should not be swept into the dustbins of history. I would like to say again that Malaysia strongly believes in the multilateralism of the United Nations and is prepared to invest in this international Organization with all our strength, beliefs and moral fibre.  ﻿On behalf of the Republic of San Marino and my delegation, I wish, first of all, to congratulate you, Sir, on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- first session. This is a recognition of your competence and gifts as a diplomat and thus a guarantee of success for our activities. At the same time, let me also thank your predecessor for the excellent way in which he guided the work of the fiftieth session, just concluded. We are all aware that the United Nations rests upon a community of States. Similarly, we are all aware that the very existence and future of any State depends on the individuals who not only comprise it but also determine its life and shape its history. The United Nations, therefore, must understand and meet the needs of all human beings if it is to represent the entire family of Member States, protect their interests and fulfil the legitimate expectations of the largest possible number of individuals. Presently, humanity is confronted with the challenges of development versus underdevelopment, progress versus recession, wealth versus extreme and ever-increasing poverty. These phenomena affect less-favoured and socially advanced countries alike, leading to social discrepancies and situations in which some manage to plan their own development, while others, deprived of job opportunities, fail. Development issues are inextricably intertwined with the destiny of nations. They change the face of countries and peoples and exacerbate the pressures on the less- favoured and most populous regions of the world. This is a real and constant threat to peace. In some cases, the situation is aggravated by the fragility or, even worse, lack of democratic institutions. Here, power is wielded as an end in itself and not as an 6 instrument for achieving the common ideal. Societies and States tend to withdraw into themselves, their only concern being to retain their strength and power. Sometimes those who hold the power do not bother to meet the needs of a rapidly changing society, except when forced to preserve the necessary consensus. Our Organization should spare no effort to help countries and peoples alike to redress the balance and remedy these errors. The items on the agenda for discussion at the fifty- first session of the General Assembly are of paramount importance and deserve the utmost attention and impartial and thorough analysis, since they pertain, on the one hand, to the peaceful coexistence of peoples and, on the other, to the existence and the structure of the Organization itself. Ultimately, peace and coexistence depend on and are best governed by this institution. All efforts must be pooled to improve, update and render the United Nations more effective. This objective can be achieved through a reform of the system inspired by equality, justice and wider democracy and aimed at ensuring broader participation and the fair sharing of duties and powers among all Member States. San Marino pledges itself to fulfilling the tasks derived from its United Nations membership, while benefitting from the opportunity to participate actively and make its contribution to the various bodies of the United Nations. Undoubtedly, the strengthening and enhancing of the United Nations require a review of the composition, role, functioning and powers of the Security Council. This review process, however, is proceeding very slowly and at times reveals inadequate understanding, cooperation and acceptance of the views of others. We are convinced that the Security Council must adjust to the changes brought about by historical events and, consequently, to the expanded membership of the United Nations itself, whose character and essence are clearly becoming increasingly universal. San Marino believes that the Security Council must increase its membership, since, as it stands today, it no longer reflects the world’s reality, nor does it promote a rotating system in which all States, irrespective of their size, are equally represented and can participate and make their own contributions. As regards the decision-making process of the Security Council, we believe that the maintenance, exercise and potential extension of the right of veto must be carefully reconsidered. Fortunately, we are living in an era characterized by dialogue, debate, discussion, proposals and the search for joint solutions. These are the instruments which we should resort to, rather than the right of veto. Over 50 years of activity and progress allow and entitle us to reconsider other instruments that, having proved useful in dealing with initial difficulties and tragic situations, are no longer necessary for further growth and consolidation. Lastly, special attention should be paid to the development and interpretation of the Security Council’s rules of procedure, with a view to adopting a more open attitude and a larger involvement of States in discussing the issues at stake. In this context, let me call on all Member States to intensify their efforts to find a universally acceptable solution. Is this all mere utopia? If it is, then we must not forget that those who have committed themselves to serving their countries and the international community have a duty to translate this utopia rationally into a political design, without neglecting or ignoring other people’s expectations. Only in this way will that utopia become a real political design based on the principles of responsibility, equality and justice. I wish to express the deepest satisfaction of the Government of the Republic of San Marino at the adoption of the resolution on the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty, which my country cosponsored. Today, I have the honour of signing this Treaty on behalf of my country. We hope that all States will become loyal Parties to the Treaty and cooperate in the elimination of nuclear energy for non-peaceful uses, so that future generations may inherit an environmentally sound planet. Given its geographical location in Europe, San Marino is particularly attentive to the evolution of the peace process in the Mediterranean area, especially in the Middle East, where the earlier general enthusiasm has been overshadowed by disenchantment and frequent difficulties. Fortunately, hope, however weak and volatile, is still alive. The Middle East still needs the international community’s commitment and encouragement to proceed to a peaceful settlement of long-standing and more recent disputes that are the cause of division and uncertainty. 7 In the speech I delivered at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, I stressed, on behalf of the Government of San Marino, the need to reconsider the instrument of the embargo, its effectiveness and repercussions, especially in those cases where, in the absence of armed conflict, international isolation alone has proved a valid moral and political means of international pressure. In this regard, it is with satisfaction that I note that the elimination of coercive economic measures as a means of political compulsion has been placed on this session’s agenda. The Government of the Republic of San Marino is confident that the debate will lead to a proper examination and resolution of the problem, so that innocent people who are already suffering are no longer the main targets of these measures. The Republic of San Marino firmly believes that the United Nations, like the Council of Europe and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, must remain the most appropriate forum for producing concrete results and enhancing the mechanism of fruitful dialogue and the exchange of ideas. The most daunting challenge is still that of preserving future generations from the scourge of war by reaffirming human dignity and promoting free and equitable social progress. ﻿Permit me to congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his unanimous election to preside over this session. His election is a reaffirmation by the United Nations Member States of the confidence that they have placed in him and in the Government of 20 Malaysia. In this regard, I should like to assure him of the cooperation of the delegation of the Republic of Rwanda in our shared desire to galvanize the community of nations in their common resolve to fulfil the objectives of the United Nations Charter. I should like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for presiding over the fiftieth session of the General Assembly in a most efficient and able manner. The session over which Mr. Razali is presiding will be addressing a considerable agenda of more than 155 items, which, when put together, will contribute to world peace, security and stability. The United Nations is the most appropriate forum to discuss these and other related matters of global peace, development and international cooperation. The agenda before us therefore seeks to address the implementation of the objectives of the Charter, as enshrined in Article 1. As we move towards the twenty-first century, it is our individual and collective responsibility to re-examine the extent to which our countries have or have not contributed to the attainment of these objectives. The United Nations Agenda for Peace and its valuable initiatives on peacekeeping, human rights and other development-related issues — collective security, terrorism, denuclearization, conflict prevention and resolution — will be discussed during the session. Rwanda would like to join its voice to those of the delegations that spoke from this rostrum and who called for world peace, security and the development of developing countries. Statements have been made from this rostrum in connection with what some have described as the ghastly events that took place in Rwanda in 1994. Many, perhaps inadvertently and in a simplistic manner, have described the events of 1994 in Rwanda as a conflict, a crisis, ghastly events or as gross violations of human rights. There was genocide in Rwanda, nothing else but a genocide. It was not a tribal or ethnic conflict, as it is often referred to. Between April and July 1994 more than one million Rwandans were butchered in a systematic and planned manner. This carnage was carried out in only 98 days. The devastating effects of the aftermath of the Rwandan genocide are still with us, and we live with them. Rwanda’s population now consists of 70 per cent women, 60 per cent of whom are widows, and we have 400,000 orphans in the country. The perpetrators of the Rwandan genocide are still at large in some capitals. Far from feeling remorse, they pride themselves in their unfinished agenda. Their army, militia and political leadership are in military and refugee camps within walking distance of the Rwanda-Zaire border. They have recently stepped up infiltrations into Rwanda in order to kill the remaining survivors of genocide. We call upon the international community to exert pressure on the Government of Zaire to relocate the refugees away from its borders with Rwanda, in conformity with the 1951 Geneva convention (relating to the Status of Refugees). The withdrawal of United Nations peacekeeping troops in April 1994, at the height of the execution of the genocidal agenda, was not helpful. For us in Rwanda, it remains, and will continue to remain, a reminder of the responsibility of the United Nations to ensure that this does not reoccur anywhere else. More importantly, it points to the need for the United Nations to support Rwanda in its efforts to rebuild its socio-economic infrastructure. This is critical. There can be no sustainable peace without reconstruction and development. The recent high-level symposium on conflicts in Africa, which was held in Tokyo this month, on 9 and 10 September, came to the same conclusion. Allow me to put on record my Government’s appreciation of the efforts made by those countries, institutions and humanitarian agencies that helped and continue to assist Rwanda in the various sectoral rehabilitation programmes. We are equally grateful to those who have shown their disposition to do so in the near future. The recently concluded round table conference, which was organized with the support of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), has been helpful. We are grateful for the commitments that were made. This will go a long way in assisting Rwanda to consolidate and build on the achievements of the past two years. The Government of National Unity of Rwanda, under the leadership of His Excellency President Pasteur Bizimungu, has made significant strides to return the country to normalcy. Tremendous achievements have been made, including the gradual and steady rehabilitation of the security structure, the judiciary, the legislature and the economy. The sound macroeconomic policies that have been adopted have contributed, in less than two years, to a reduction in inflation from 60 per cent in 1994 to 10 per cent in 1996. This will drop to 5 per cent by the 21 end of 1997. Agricultural production has reached 70 per cent of the pre-war level, and we have recorded impressive levels of food production. We are also pleased to inform the international community that more than 2.2 million refugees have now returned to Rwanda. All Rwandan refugees originally based in Burundi have been repatriated and successfully resettled in their own communities without incident. This is sufficient proof that Rwandan refugees in other neighbouring countries, apart from being the hostages of genocidal leaders in the refugee camps, have no other reasons to remain. These achievements have been made in spite of some critical factors that the international community could help Rwanda overcome if we are to maintain the pace of our continuing progress towards stability, durable peace and development. The crippling debt burden has hamstrung all social sectors, especially the most vulnerable groups. Children, women, widows and the elderly are among the most affected. Rwanda’s debt stock at the end of 1995 stood at a staggering high of $1 billion, or 91 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP). Most of this, 84 per cent, is owed to multilateral institutions; 13 per cent is bilateral; and the remaining 3 per cent is on account of suppliers’ credits. Given the magnitude of this suffocating debt, the Government cannot rebuild its shattered socio-economic infrastructure in the aftermath of genocide. We therefore urge the international community, and especially the multilateral financial and development institutions, to cancel immediately Rwanda’s debt. Short of new resources in the form of a Marshall Plan, this cancellation would greatly contribute to Rwanda’s recovery and sustainable growth. We know very well that where there has been a significant infusion of financial resources in post-war periods, peace and stability have been achieved and sustained. The question of conflicts and insecurity in the Great Lakes region has been mentioned by many speakers. The situation in Burundi is cause for concern to many, especially the countries of the region. I should like in this regard to commend the efforts of the Organization of African Unity, the leaders of the region and all those who are involved in the search for a durable solution. Regional instability has been complicated by the systematic persecution of Kinyarwanda-speaking Zaireans. This process was stepped up this year with the massacre of several North Kivu region Zaireans of Rwandese culture; others were forced to flee to Rwanda and Uganda. This persecution has recently been extended to the South Kivu region of Zaire, where, again, Kinyarwanda-speaking Zaireans have been subjected to brutal attacks by Zairean forces, along with former Rwanda Government soldiers and interahamwe militias, who did not finish but exported their genocidal and “ethnic cleansing” agenda. Survivors of these attacks — predominantly women and children, as men and boys are either killed or imprisoned — have been forced to seek refuge in Rwanda. It is the responsibility of the Government of Zaire to unconditionally repatriate its nationals who are currently living in refugee camps in Rwanda. We call upon the international community to prevail upon the Government of Zaire so as to stop the systematic “ethnic cleansing” currently taking place in eastern Zaire. We further call upon the Government of Zaire to cease immediately its military aggression which has recently been directed against Rwandan territory. We would like to pay tribute to Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, former President of the United Republic of Tanzania, for his unequivocal and genuine search for solutions, not only for Burundi, but also within the wider context of the Great Lakes region. The problem is not the lack of solutions. What is lacking is the decisiveness to implement commitments voluntarily entered into. That is what should be addressed. In the case of the Great Lakes region, former Presidents Julius Nyerere of Tanzania, Jimmy Carter of the United States of America and General Touré of Mali successfully managed to get the Heads of State and Government to agree and sign solemn declarations on the modalities for solving the problems of the region. At this session, we will be considering the re-election of the Secretary-General. My Government’s position has been clear since Yaoundé, during the summit of the Organization of African Unity. We are not supportive of the re-election of the incumbent. Doing so would reward his failure to use the instruments of the United Nations Charter in order to come to the rescue of Rwandans during the genocide. Above all, it would be against the collective conscience of the Rwandan people to support the candidacy of the incumbent. But beyond these moral grounds, we believe that the election of a contested Secretary-General is not in the interest of the United Nations. It would jeopardize the functioning of an institution that needs to be strengthened. 22 ﻿Let me express my appreciation for the honour of addressing the Assembly. On behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Uzbekistan, I offer my sincerest congratulations to Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia on his election as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I am sure that his presidency will enable us successfully to solve many of the urgent issues on the international agenda. I also take 16 this opportunity to extend our appreciation and gratitude to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, President of the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly, for his valuable guidance and personal involvement in the resolution of issues the world was facing during that period. We consider the safeguarding of peace and stability in Central Asia and the sustainable development of the region as the most important goal of our cooperation with the United Nations and its specialized agencies. In this context, I would like to outline a number of problems and to make several proposals. First, regarding regional security, we are of the view that we need to move through regionalism towards the global: global peace can be achieved through stability in the various regions of the world. Regional conflicts are increasingly the direct source of such dangerous challenges and threats as terrorism and violence, the illicit arms trade and drugs trafficking. That is why the main focus of Uzbekistan’s initiatives aimed at ensuring security in the Central Asian region is finding ways to settle the conflict in Afghanistan and to stabilize the situation in Tajikistan. One of the most important elements of these initiatives is an embargo on arms deliveries to Afghanistan. We welcome the start of a discussion of this problem in the Security Council and support proposals for a comprehensive approach and for the convening of an international conference — where, in our view, the main role should be played by the United Nations. Halting arms deliveries to Afghanistan is an indispensable condition for any peace process. An embargo does not mean just any sanctions against Afghanistan; it has to be directed towards those who continue to supply weapons to the area of conflict. The inability of Afghanistan’s forces to control its borders requires efforts on the part of the international community to ensure that arms deliveries are ended. I would like to underline particularly that the Republic of Uzbekistan, more than any other nation in the world, seeks to return to age-old traditional relations of friendship, cooperation and mutual trust with neighbouring Afghanistan. This is the only aim guiding us in our initiatives to promote peace in the Islamic State of Afghanistan. We want Afghanistan to be a stable, indivisible State, open to the outside world for the sake of progress and prosperity. I take this opportunity to appeal once again to the Secretary-General, and to the Presidents of the Security Council and the General Assembly to do their utmost to resolve the Afghan conflict, which poses a serious threat not only to regional security but also to for global security. We continue to believe that Central Asia has its own characteristics; the positive or negative development of events there can be a catalyst for positive changes or a destructive factor affecting the situation far beyond the region. Secondly, we must enter the twenty-first century with a new vision of questions of peace and security in a rapidly changing world. The promotion of world peace is accompanied today by intensive debates and disputes on the expansion of the membership of various international bodies and on models for comprehensive world security in the twenty-first century. While welcoming these aspirations, we must note that each sovereign country in this multi-polar world has the right to decide for itself, in accordance with its national interests, and with its regional identity taken into consideration, whether or not to enter a given union, irrespective of the position of more powerful countries. There is no place for domination or monopoly on the part of other, more powerful, countries in resolving this problem. Thirdly, as regards our position in relation to the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), we consider that the CIS countries can successfully cooperate within the framework of the Commonwealth on a multilateral and bilateral basis. At the same time, we believe that the CIS cannot be treated as a unit under international law. It is unacceptable to let the CIS be transformed into a political or indeed a military-political bloc. Otherwise, the world community will inevitably slide back down into global antagonisms and confrontation. For Uzbekistan, this is fundamentally unacceptable. Fourthly, Uzbekistan continues to support the complete elimination of nuclear weapons and views as historic the decision to conclude the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, adopted under the auspices of the United Nations, and the beginning of the signature process of the Treaty. We consider this event to be a most important stage in liberating humanity from the threat of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. For our part, the relevant work is being carried out to establish a nuclear-free zone in Central Asia within the international non-proliferation system. We believe that the 17 initiative of the President of Uzbekistan will soon find more detailed interest in the Security Council. Fifthly, I would like once again to draw the attention of Member States to ecological problems, whose dimensions go beyond State borders. I would especially like to say a word about the problem of the Aral Sea. There have already been a great number of scientific studies and international conferences, including several on the sustainable development of the Aral Sea countries. However, to our great disappointment, we do not see any movement from statements to practical deeds. I would like to note that Uzbekistan supports and considers as timely Great Britain’s proposal on the adoption of a special declaration condemning terrorism in all its forms. For a more effective functioning of United Nations machinery in all areas of activity, we consider it necessary to reform a number of United Nations organs, including the Security Council. This is in line with today’s realities. The geo-strategic balance of power raises the question of the expansion of the number of permanent members of the Security Council. We are convinced that such States as Germany and Japan today are fully equipped to be permanent members of the Security Council. Uzbekistan stands for the constructive reform of the United Nations. In this context, together with other States, including Italy, whose proposals deserve serious attention, we express our sincere desire to ensure that the United Nations is a reliable instrument for maintaining universal peace and stability.  ﻿May I congratulate the President on his new responsibilities and pay tribute to Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal. During last year’s jubilee session, his persistence furthered this Assembly’s revitalization process. Less than a year ago, world leaders met in this Hall to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and renew their commitment to the Charter. The world community rejoiced. Hope had survived the darkness of the cold war. Trust in the United Nations was, however, tempered by an awareness of the difficulties threatening its survival and the aspirations of the peoples it represents. Could the Organization address the new phenomenon of instability which risked sapping its capacities and resources? What prevailed was a pragmatic assessment. The alternatives to the United Nations were either that of attempting to reinvent the wheel or scuttling this forum of dialogue and cooperation to have arrogance and chaos usher in the new millennium. We, the peoples, can ill afford war. Rhetoric can never cancel the grief and destruction it generates. The United Nations was founded to save succeeding generations from this scourge. Notwithstanding the then-widespread colonialism and the angst of bipolarism, the world community worked to contain the risk of war. As the ability to destroy grew, so did the potential of States to be annihilated. Brave, bold steps required clear vision and a commitment to peace. The Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, extended indefinitely last year, is a monumental landmark in this arduous quest. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is another milestone. Malta co-sponsored the resolution that led to its adoption by the General Assembly and is honoured to have been amongst its first signatories. The challenge remains. We must generate broader confidence to ensure universal adherence and compliance to these treaties and others, including the Chemical Weapons Convention. Procrastination in their ratification by the States that matter most could expose them to the danger of becoming dead letters. Malta welcomes the commitment expressed by President Clinton of the United States of America in this regard. The risk of world conflict, though remote, is still present. The total horror of a nuclear holocaust induces an in-built restraint. This is not the case with conventional armaments or weapons of mass destruction. Millions of victims of local and regional conflicts — be they dead, maimed, refugees, displaced, widowed or orphaned — continue to torment the conscience of humankind. These tragedies spur us to pursue initiatives which foster security and confidence. The call for a ban on the production, export and use of anti-personnel landmines has Malta’s full support. The seven-point programme of action proposed by the Foreign Minister Kinkel of Germany provides a good basis for progress. We must melt the bastions of suspicion. Only a consolidated regime of confidence-building and disarmament measures can buttress belief in and commitment to the peaceful settlement of disputes. This process requires regional and international concerted action. Malta has been active in promoting security and cooperation in the Mediterranean. Malta and France have both made proposals for a stability pact for the Mediterranean. The sharing of concerns among countries afflicted by common problems can help overcome them. This and other initiatives could turn our sea of turmoil into one of mutual trust. Malta’s foreign policy is both inspired and dependent on the notion of regional stability. It continues 15 to sustain our efforts at greater Mediterranean cooperation. It inspired our proposal to have the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe declare itself a regional arrangement in terms of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. The enlargement of the European Union, of which Malta expects to become a full member in the near future, provides a unique dimension of the process of regional cooperation. Malta welcomes the statement made by Deputy Prime Minister Spring of Ireland on behalf of the European Union. It reflects the common values which have always inspired the European process and led to the consolidation of democracy, prosperity, social justice and solidarity. In the framework of the structured dialogue, Malta has worked with its European Union partners on key issues to promote peaceful coexistence, cooperation, development and progress within the world community. Malta supports the Euro-Mediterranean partnership. Cooperation in the political, security, economic and financial areas cannot but yield results. Social, cultural and human relations are other important aspects of this partnership. Malta has always seen its application for membership of the European Union in terms that encompass the economic and the broader political dimensions. The successful outcome of the negotiations on Malta’s accession, due to start in the coming months, will further strengthen our contribution. Interlocking institutions of the European security architecture, such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Partnership for Peace and the Council of Europe, have strengthened the distinct areas of cooperation on which security depends. We must identify and combat threats to peace as they emerge. We have witnessed the horror of intolerance based on nationality, race, creed or political belief. Agonizing conflicts and acts of terrorism have shattered lives and trampled upon the rights and dignity of whole populations. Such events have shocked us into action. The establishment of the ad hoc Tribunals and the current negotiations on the establishment of an international criminal court, which Malta fully supports, are proof of the varied manner in which the United Nations responds to new needs. The road to peace, through the compromise of negotiated settlement, is not always immediate or popular. Yet, it is the only path. Reconciliation does not happen of its own accord. It requires courage and leaders who stretch out their hand to their adversaries and build, brick by brick, the edifice of stability. The universally acclaimed processes which rekindled the hope of settlement in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Middle East are parts of this noble task. The implementation of agreements reached between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, the resumption of negotiations and the full realization of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people are indispensable for stability in the Middle East. The international community must continue to assist this process. Malta welcomes the first meeting between Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Arafat. The most recent incidents of violence in Jerusalem and Ramallah in recent days give rise to great concern. The momentum of achievement should not be dissipated by acts which erode the confidence built thus far. The people of Cyprus have thirsted for peace and unity for too long and also deserve the attainment of a just and long-lasting settlement. In this Hall, recognition was always and exclusively reserved for peacemakers. It was never bestowed on warmongers, aggressors or cynics who constantly doubt and discourage others from building hope. The United Nations Children’s Fund, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the World Health Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the United Nations Development Programme and United Nations actions in Palestine, Namibia, Cambodia and Mozambique are part of this Organization’s history in contributing towards the well-being and development of peoples, peacekeeping and peace-building. The success achieved should not be robbed of merit by instances where it is lacking. Are not the Blue Helmets across the globe a signal of engagement? Are not negotiations on preventive diplomacy a commitment to addressing the root causes of tension and conflict? Are not our deliberations on development means to create stability and well-being at the local level? In 50 years, we have created a range of tools to promote cooperation. True enough, our tools need perfecting. We must calibrate them to current realities. Tools, however, need to be used. A shed full of perfect, but unused, tools never provided any farmer with a 16 livelihood. Only the will to operate tools and invest energy where it matters helps to reap the fruit. The future demands a more action-oriented approach: more time in the field, rather than pondering in the shed. This resolve inspires us as we follow up the United Nations conferences on the environment, human rights, population, social development, women’s rights and human settlements. The World Food Summit is another example of action. Renewed focus on development has led to various initiatives, including those specific to Africa. Partnerships forged by the European Union and Japan with the developing world reflect active cooperative involvement. Achievement registered by a number of developing States underlines the benefit of such undertakings. The dialogue instituted between Non-Aligned Movement, the Group of 77 and the Group of Seven is an important and welcome step. Malta’s academic institutions, in collaboration with United Nations agencies and the Commonwealth secretariat, annually sponsor and organize a number of training programmes. Most fall into the category of the training of trainers. Students from the developing world and from countries with economies in transition have attended short- or long-term courses and are now back in their countries directly contributing to development. Malta, through its Government and non-governmental organizations, regularly donates funds for a number of humanitarian and overseas development aid programmes. These initiatives, together with the traditional involvement of Maltese teachers and social workers in the developing world as volunteers from non-governmental organizations or members of religious orders, symbolize our national commitment to international solidarity. We view our collective achievements with pride. Each convention and treaty agreed upon by the international community is a testimonial of our common will to build a better life, each a symbol of our resolve to beat our swords into ploughshares. Yet, the anguished sea of faces of millions of children denied the right to hope still haunts us, whether it is war, famine, or exploitation which generates misery. Our collective future can never be secure until these children acquire the right to smile in hope and to their fair share in the bounties of society. Cynicism and fatalism cannot cure us of social ills. Blended with hope, pragmatism yields reward. What is more pragmatic than the care of the destitute to which people like Mother Theresa dedicate their lives. One person less going to bed with an empty stomach, one person less torn with pain, one person less denied shelter — small pragmatic steps inspired by the innate dignity of each human being; acts of caring solidarity which each individual, each family, each community is capable of; commitment to others generates hope. Each ounce of food which alleviates famine; each drop of water which combats drought and desertification; each dose of medicine which contains the spread of disease; each book which kindles knowledge helps build a better world. Democracy, the rule of law, free and fair elections and constant vigilance in the promotion and protection of human rights are the guarantors of peace. International election observer missions are an important contribution to confidence-building. Malta has participated in this process, most recently in Palestine and Bosnia and Herzegovina. As much as action is instrumental, so is restraint. Emissions which pollute the environment; lumbering which depletes the rain forests; indiscriminate trawling which exhausts our fishstocks — even if disguised as economic imperatives — undermine efforts towards sustainable development. Malta looks forward to this Assembly’s 1997 special session to follow up and update the Rio achievements. We have strategies and action plans. Now is the time for dynamic engagement. Present and future generations demand that we use these instruments to combat drug trafficking, illicit arms transfers, money laundering and organized crime, which sap the life of the communities we built with so much effort. My Government is totally committed in this regard. Legislation adopted has strengthened the arm of the law in apprehending traffickers, halting the flow of drugs and confiscating illegal funds accrued. This determined policy is bearing fruit. Malta supports the convening of a General Assembly special session in 1998 comprehensively to address drug trafficking and related issues. Poland’s proposed convention to fight transnational crime has been noted with interest. Regional and international cooperation on these issues remains the key to success. Our children have a right to a life free from fear in a safer world. That remains our responsibility as parents and policy makers. 17 The United Nations is often accused of lacking in its assigned role. Yet the United Nations is what Member States make of it. They decide on its future. United Nations reform requires discipline in our operating methods. We have to discard self-imposed fetters and act with the revived spirit that our times demand. Tempered by the fires of conflict and the lessons of the League of Nations, the founding fathers built into the Charter a balance worth preserving. Reform should not be reduced to a simple juxtaposition of organizational charts. Only by revitalizing the spirit that gives our Organization life and purpose will we achieve the ideal of nations large and small working in unison for a better world. As President of the General Assembly at its forty-fifth session, in the immediate aftermath of the cold war, my Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Guido de Marco, called for reflection and action to better the symbiotic relationship between the United Nations principal organs. Since then working groups have been set up to discuss restructuring. Within the Security Council reform group, work has evolved, but it is still far from reaching common ground. There is consensus that the Council should be expanded and be more representative. The type of expansion and the categories are still subject to a wide divergence of views. Malta looks forward to an expanded Security Council that best serves the world community. On the merits of increasing the Council’s permanent membership, we still have an open mind. The very nature of permanence demands that we establish clear and exact criteria on required qualifications for present and future candidates. Giving due recognition to changes in international relations and the nature and extent of the contribution of States towards tasks assigned to the Council, we must avoid rigid stances or those that may be construed as such. There are a number of compromise proposals that could help us find a solution, even if temporarily. We have listened with great attention and positive interest to Foreign Minister Dini explaining the Italian proposal as one which takes into account both the special contribution of a number of States and the right of all States to serve on the Council regardless of their size, wealth or military might. Only understandings between States that win the confidence of all can assist us in surmounting existing obstacles. We are satisfied to note the consensus existing on bettering the important qualitative relationship between the Security Council and the General Assembly. Changes introduced in the working methods of the Council are an indication of a universal positive disposition. The Open-ended High-level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations system has registered significant progress and tackled a variety of complex issues. Malta has consistently advocated greater efficiency and a more effective role for the General Assembly to dissipate negative perceptions that may exist. Responsibilities of this Assembly, of which we are all permanent members, are many and varied. We have already noted the benefits of streamlining. More is required. Our deliberations have an impact on public opinion and political contingencies. We would be remiss if indifference or bureaucratization were to numb us from fully assuming the responsibilities and obligations imposed by the Charter. Starting with the forty-fifth session, my Deputy Prime Minister has also called for a review of the role of the Trusteeship Council. Creating or abolishing institutions necessarily has an impact on the principles on which they are based. The balance characteristic of the Charter needs to be enhanced rather than diluted. The United Nations should continue to cherish all principles on which it was founded, including the notion of trust, on which the Trusteeship Council rests. Last year, Malta submitted a resolution seeking the opinion of States on the Trusteeship Council’s future. The diversity of views expressed is indicative of the existing potential. Malta looks forward to further discussion on the subject, confident in the will to better utilize existing institutions to serve the principles of the Charter. Our common heritage and the welfare of future generations demand that in reorienting the United Nations we preserve and protect the vision and ideals that gave it birth. Thirty years ago Malta launched the concept of common heritage. This concept has become ingrained in the reality of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the International Sea-Bed Authority. It takes time for ideas to mature and consensus to emerge. The most recent development, which we welcome, is the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, to be inaugurated at Hamburg, Germany, next month. Those institutions will undoubtedly continue to contribute to the underlying principle of trust in protecting and preserving our common heritage. 18 The financial crisis facing the Organization has dampened hopes and discouraged many. Malta believes that the ongoing exercise of assessing costs, eliminating waste and rationalizing structures must go on. Although pruning is essential to strengthen the United Nations, so also is the need for all Member States to meet obligations and to pay their assessed contributions to the regular and peacekeeping budgets, in full, promptly and without conditions. Discussion on the scale of assessments will also contribute to improving the financial base of the Organization. “Bankruptcy” is an awful word. It is too often repeated in relation to the United Nations. Finances are undoubtedly a cause of common concern. There is, however, another threatening phenomenon which looms — moral bankruptcy. This is by far the greater danger and the one that we should fear most. With the end of the cold war, a second-generation United Nations had to find in its Member States the resolve and commitment to face winds of change that at times assume the force of gales and whirlwinds. With a steady hand on the rudder and our eyes fixed on that guiding star that inspired the founding fathers, we can still bring ship to port. The fate of humankind is our precious cargo and responsibility.  ﻿Almost two years have passed since the establishment of constitutional order and the rule of law in Haiti. The spectre of an illegal government and the acts of violence it perpetrated has vanished. The Haitian people, with the support of the international community, have succeeded in demonstrating in a country that the rule of law is more important than effectiveness where political shake-ups are common. Today, democracy and tolerance are part of the Haitian scene, breathing new life into the struggle to preserve freedom. However, for this success to be complete, it must lead the way to security, knowledge, expertise and hope and to the well-being of seven million Haitians, who are still waiting for the realization of the dreams inspired by the return to democracy. Thus, the thorny question of socio- economic recovery — the true prerequisite for the consolidation of democratic gains — is more pressing than ever. The United Nations has since 1991 been a focal point for the Haitian people, because the Organization did everything in its power to give full force to the rule of law in my country. That is why I attach great importance to the outcome of the fifty-first session, which should confirm the commitments we made last year, at the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, to peace, international security and development. I am certain, Mr. President, that your leadership, your experience and your personal qualities will ensure the success of our work. I should like to take this opportunity to pay a well- deserved tribute to His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral for the work that he accomplished as President of the fiftieth session. I also wish to pay sincere tribute to the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose tireless efforts are breathing fresh life into the Organization. The Government of Haiti acknowledges his active role in resolving the Haitian crisis. His latest report on the situation in our country reveals the perceptiveness of his analysis and his profound understanding of Haitian affairs. Since the international community, through the United Nations, has invested in Haitian renewal, we have a duty to report to the Assembly on the progress made by the Haitian Government and the difficulties it is facing, and on its commitment to national development and to international peace and security. The general elections held on 17 December 1995 led to the installation on 7 February 1996 of a new Government and to the renewal of Parliament. The new Government team is striving to ensure respect for public freedoms and human rights, in spite of the various constraints it is facing. It is encouraging free expression of opinion and the establishment of organized bodies to improve the functioning of civil society. However, in its efforts to establish a democratic society and the rule of law, the Haitian Government must labour under two constraints: the economic problems that worsened after the coup d’état and the shortcomings of the judicial system, which have given rise to frustration among the population. Those factors have combined to create a state of affairs favourable to those forces that are against change, which have not yet abandoned their plans to destabilize the Government. With respect to the reform of the justice system, the Government is mindful of the urgent need to end the incompetence and corruption of most magistrates. To that end, on 3 October of this year it submitted to Parliament a bill outlining the substance of the reforms to be undertaken to correct the discredited justice system and make it more credible and accessible. An independent judiciary will be a crucial element in the reform. The Government is taking every step to ensure the elimination of any hindrance to judicial impartiality and integrity. Similarly, it is doing its utmost to provide the system with the means it needs to function properly. For some time now Haiti has been experiencing an acute economic crisis. National productivity is declining. Infrastructures are seriously dilapidated. Real gross domestic product fell an average of 5.11 per cent from 1991 to 1995. The country’s balance of trade is in chronic deficit, amounting to $440 million, or 22 per cent of gross domestic product for fiscal year 1994-1995. Exports have dropped to less than $100 million. At the macroeconomic level, the Government is currently pursuing an economic policy that takes into account the need to curb inflation, balance the budget, reform financing, combat corruption, impose austerity on public administration and ensure equilibrium among the macroeconomic variables. That programme, which is supported by the international financial institutions with which we have worked out clear-cut modalities for negotiation and cooperation, will enable us better to meet an economic and social future that will be more promising and that will better favour the integration of the Haitian economy into the world scene. A production-oriented policy should emphasize increased agricultural and industrial output. However, we must take into account that Haiti’s agriculture is in crisis because it is unable to meet its two main goals: food security and increased export earnings for the country. Thus, the Government is striving to establish technological and social conditions that can relaunch national agricultural production. In the same spirit the Government is giving special attention to relaunching industrial production. A strategy has been developed to restore a climate favourable to business, which is a necessary condition for promoting investment, which is the driving force of industrial development. There can be no question that such an objective can be achieved only through close cooperation between the country’s various sectors. We believe, inter alia, that a dynamic private sector open to foreign investment is a necessity for economic growth. The present Government recognizes that future development can be achieved only if we protect our natural resources. Thus, it intends to take steps to curb deforestation and soil degradation. Safeguarding our environment is one of our priorities. Equally aware of the role played by the tourist industry in the world economy, the Government has devised a set of directives covering the principal elements of national tourist policy. It is encouraging to note that activities in that sector are beginning to pick up. On the social level, the Haitian Government believes that there is a vital need to combat poverty, illiteracy and deficiencies in health care. The struggle against poverty entails a demonstration of strong political resolve to distribute the country’s scanty resources on a fairer basis and to take steps to combat unemployment and encourage private investment. The persistence of a high rate of illiteracy is a major handicap when it comes to improving economic results and raising social standards. Over the next four years the Government intends to achieve a significant increase in the number of children attending school. Here, we should note that particular attention is being put on improving health conditions in the country, and in that regard a 2 programme of action has been developed that will be implemented by mobilizing all available resources and with the support of certain bilateral and multilateral partners. The task before us is enormous, but we are confident that we can meet the challenge, thanks to the determination of the Haitian people and the continuing support of the international community, which has been unstinting in its efforts to help resolve problems that threaten international peace and security. On the subject of international peace and security, the international community has once again this year been torn between fear and hope as it has confronted developments in situations in various parts of the world. Long-standing conflicts have shown encouraging positive signs, while new outbreaks of violence have exacerbated world tensions. Thus, the Haitian Government welcomes the positive developments in the situation in the former Yugoslavia, marked by the holding of general elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is truly heartening to see that the peace process has once and for all, we hope, replaced the spiral of warfare and hatred, with its concomitant systematic violations of human rights. The initiatives taken by the Organization, in particular the creation of the United Nations Protection Force and the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law, have greatly contributed to creating a climate favourable to peace and ethnic reconciliation in that country. With regard to the Middle East, my Government wishes to express its satisfaction at the resumption of dialogue there. It encourages the two parties to continue their efforts to achieve lasting peace in the region, in keeping with the relevant United Nations resolutions. On our own continent we welcome the prospects of peace that have appeared in Guatemala, after 35 years of armed conflict. The Haitian Government commends the United Nations on the leading role it has played in that peace process. Our Organization should not only intervene in regional and inter-State situations that pose a threat to international peace and security but also contribute to help eradicate such dangerous evils as international terrorism and illicit drug trafficking or to assist in finding solutions to certain problems that threaten mankind’s survival, such as the nuclear-arms race. In that regard, my Government followed with interest the negotiations held within the framework of the Geneva Conference on Disarmament and decided to become a sponsor of the draft resolution submitted to the General Assembly, in the conviction that the Treaty was already a step towards nuclear disarmament. That is why, two weeks ago, on behalf of my country’s Government, I signed the text of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, whose adoption by 156 States Members of the Organization eloquently attests to the profound desire of all nations to build a safer world for future generations. Terrorism and illicit drug trafficking also represent grave threats to international peace and security. Coordinated action involving all members of the international community will be increasingly necessary in order to eradicate these scourges. As far as terrorism is concerned, the Haitian Government has always vigorously condemned indiscriminate acts of violence against innocent individuals and believes that the international conventions adopted on this question provide a legal framework for the prosecution of the perpetrators of such crimes. However, along with laws and criminal punishment, we must also try to find a solution to the problems at their source. Mindful of the gravity of the situation, the member countries of the Organization of American States convened a specialized conference on terrorism that met in Lima, Peru, from 23 to 26 April 1996. The Republic of Haiti signed the Declaration adopted on that occasion with a view to preventing, combating and eliminating terrorism within the overall framework of the applicability of international law, respect for the sovereignty of States, the principle of non-intervention and strict compliance by States with their rights and duties. The Haitian Government also subscribes to the new actions recommended by the Ministerial Conference held in Paris on 30 July 1996. In the area of international drug control, I would like to note that the Republic of Haiti is aware of the effort being made by the international community to tackle the phenomenon of drug abuse and drug trafficking. It is increasingly necessary for us to define, by means of appropriate conventions, an integrated framework for the relentless struggle that we need to wage against drugs in all phases: production, consumption, abuse, money- laundering and money-recycling, extradition and international prosecution of traffickers and confiscation of goods. 3 Last year the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization allowed us not only to take stock of its record and of the activities it has undertaken but also to reopen the question of the reform of the United Nations necessary to tackle the challenges of the approaching twenty-first century. As far as the expansion of the Security Council is concerned, the Haitian Government would like a consensus to be reached on a new configuration of that important body that would favour active participation for all States in the activities of maintaining international peace and security. At the same time, we need to find ways and means to revitalize the Economic and Social Council. While recognizing the positive actions of the Economic and Social Council in various aspects of development over half a century, the Haitian Government believes that it is possible to improve its operation in order to make it a more effective instrument to promote sustainable development. We stand at a turning point in history where we are faced with grave dangers as well as many signs of hope. In Haiti we are striving to restore hope to our people in order to make a complete break with a past of suffering and deprivation. It is also the responsibility of all States to make the reform of our Organization a reality so that it can usher in a better world for future generations.  ﻿It is a source of profound satisfaction to see a diplomat of the experience of Mr. Razali Ismail, representing Asia and the friendly and brotherly country of Malaysia, presiding over the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I wish to congratulate him on his well deserved election. I am confident that, with his abilities, he will be able to steer the work of this important session in an exemplary manner. I assure him of the full cooperation of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran in discharging his important mandate. The developments during the last decade on the global scene, particularly the demise of the bipolar international system and the need to replace it with a new 24 world order, have created many hopes and expectations. Nations around the globe, irrespective of their diverse cultures, customs and religions, expected that on the threshold of the twenty-first century the process for the creation of a new world order characterized by collective participation and human development would emerge in a climate governed by realism and a sober grasp of the essence of the ongoing changes in international relations. The essence of these international developments was indeed the overwhelming rejection at the national level of totalitarianism and dictatorship, with a profound message for humanity at large: if we desire to construct a world of collective participation and human development we must build international relations on the foundations of justice, tolerance, the rule of law, cooperation and transparency. Human society hoped and expected that justice would guarantee the inalienable rights of all individuals, nations and States through a rejection of hegemony and special privileges for a dominant few; they hoped that, through recognition of diversity of cultures and beliefs, as well as respect for the rights of all States, tolerance would facilitate intercultural communication and mutual understanding, thereby enriching common human civilization and empowering all members of the international community to participate fully and effectively in determining the shape and setting the norms and standards of behaviour in a future world. They hoped that the rule of law would ensure the security and legitimate interests of individuals, groups and States. Cooperation would replace confrontation, bringing about joint human efforts to resolve common problems and to further common objectives. Transparency, by providing objective and clear explanations and solutions to global issues, would consolidate mutual confidence at the international level. In such a world, the United Nations occupies a paramount position. It embodies the hopes and aspirations of the entire membership of the international community, and as such, provides a suitable framework for collective, transparent and rule-based international decision-making and implementation geared towards the promotion of the common good and the resolution of common ills. The convening of many international conferences in the past decade to articulate and codify further norms of behaviour for an orderly new system, the relative success of the United Nations machinery in preventing and de-escalating many international and regional conflicts, and the constructive debate on reinvigorating the General Assembly and reforming the Security Council are positive examples providing hopeful signals in that direction. On the other hand, amid competition and rivalries for the shaping of the emerging world order, a new phenomenon has surfaced. This phenomenon is so distant and alien from the universally envisaged world of collective participation and human development that its consolidation and persistence would send any hope for a global human society to the oblivion of more rivalries and insecurity. Indeed, concurrent with the expansion of participatory democracy in many countries, a complex movement has emerged towards autocracy or even totalitarianism at the international level, a trend which is founded on hegemony and flouts justice, freedom, participation, the rule of law, tolerance, human rights, pluralism and democracy in a dangerous and unprecedented manner. The evident behavioural characteristics of this menace, disguised behind appealing facades, can be summarized in the following manner: first, there is unilateralism, which means a total lack of commitment to mutual cooperation and common solutions, and complete reliance on unilateral measures in various fields. Second comes opportunism, in which international forums are resorted to only as mechanisms for the promotion of national self-interest and often in pursuit of a domestic agenda. Third, there is secrecy, which takes the form of an insistence on dogmatic, non-transparent and closed methods and a rejection of transparency, which impedes the abuse of multilateral arrangements. Fourth comes lawlessness, which is the evasion of the rule of law coupled with audacity in breaking the law and universal norms, even in a public and official manner. Fifth we have imposition, which means the promotion of domestic agendas and national priorities through the imposition of policies on others, including through the extra-territorial application of domestic legislation. And sixth there is coercion, the unbridled recourse to the threat and use of force in international political, economic and commercial relations. The most notable manifestation of the new international totalitarianism surfaces in the cultural sphere. Our world is characterized by a diversity of religions, civilizations, cultures and customs. This diversity has naturally resulted in the emergence of many systems of law and values, with similarities as well as differences. Regrettably, the claimants of world leadership have either failed to grasp this self-evident reality due to their own lack of historical and cultural depth or have found it 25 incompatible with their interests and therefore attempt to neglect it. More regrettable is the fact that the collaboration of certain other States in this field has exacerbated such opportunistic intolerance. In this context, the misguided propaganda waged to distort the image of Islam, and the unprecedented intolerance exhibited against the tide of Islamic resurgence among Islamic nations and States indicate a futile campaign to suppress this great divine religion of justice and tolerance, and of defiance against oppression, tyranny and domination. The claimants of world leadership have yet to realize that a people’s religious devotion is intertwined with its very existence, and will only draw more strength and resilience in the face of campaigns of external pressure and negative propaganda. The progressive march of the Islamic world, which benefits from the rich heritage of Islamic culture, history and civilization, cannot be halted. Thus this significant and important segment of humanity will certainly occupy an increasingly prominent role in the shaping of the future world order. The irreconcilability of totalitarianism with the rule of law has had dangerous manifestations on the international scene. The passing and signing of legislation to allocate money for subversive and terrorist activities against the Islamic Republic of Iran is the most dangerous manifestation of this lawlessness, which is no longer confined to the secrecy of intelligence services but has been recklessly made into law by the United States Congress. This law and similar unlawful behaviour, including the infamous decision of the United States Supreme Court approving kidnapping by the United States Government, represent a very dangerous trend. They illustrate a growing tendency to institutionalize and even legalize illegality and disregard for international obligations. A similar pattern of behaviour that has been manifested in the past several years by the United States Government is the self-arrogation of the right to legislate for the international community by attempting to apply its domestic legislation beyond its borders. Recent unilateral sanctions enacted by the United States against the trading partners of a number of countries not only constitute a grave breach of various norms and principles of international law and many resolutions of this Assembly and other international forums as well as blatant interference in the internal and external affairs of other States, but, indeed, point to a very dangerous trend, which undermines the very foundations of contemporary inter- State relations. The rejection of such legislation by various Governments and international forums along with universal resistance against their application illustrate the fact that unilateral interference, the imposition of policies and the self-arrogated leadership of one State over the national priorities and external relations of others cannot and will not be tolerated by the international community. The Islamic Republic of Iran has referred these two pieces of legislation to the pertinent international tribunal. We strongly believe that unless this dangerous trend is arrested at the earlier stages of inception, it will have irreversible implications, including the undermining of the credibility and reliability of international undertakings. If outlaws are left to trample upon the rule of law, peace and security around the globe will be in peril. The same general tendency of domination has debilitated the Security Council, which has repeatedly fallen prey to the interests of a permanent member. The Council, for example, not only failed to prevent the Israeli attacks against defenceless Lebanese women and children in a United Nations compound, but also turned a blind eye to reports substantiating the deliberate nature of the atrocity, thus putting aside its humanitarian and Charter responsibilities in the interests of the political considerations of supporters of Israel. Relying on such unconditional support, the Zionist regime pursues with impunity its expansionist policies of occupation in Palestine, southern Lebanon and the Syrian Golan Heights, as well as its routine practice of State terrorism and blatant violation of the most fundamental rights of the Muslim people of Palestine. Israel has neither regard for international law nor any commitment to peace, its only objective being the consolidation and expansion of its occupation of the territories of others. Considering these realities, the only logical conclusion is that peace in the Middle East requires a just and comprehensive resolution of the question of Palestine through the return of all Palestinian refugees to their homeland, the exercise of their inalienable right to self- determination and the liberation of all occupied territories. It is noteworthy that the mere expression of such realistic analyses by a sovereign State is misportrayed as opposition to peace and provides the pretext for concern, anger and even illegal political pressure. In other words, the new international autocracy, contrary to its proclamations of support for freedom of expression, cannot tolerate the least dissenting view regarding its destructive policies. 26 The prevalence of such attitudes in the Security Council has clearly shown that the Council needs fundamental and substantive reform and modification, particularly in its rules and decision-making procedures. The realities of today’s international scene are so different from those prevailing in the aftermath of the Second World War that the Security Council is weakened by its present structure and prevented from meeting the new challenges. On the other hand, the General Assembly enjoys greater credibility in view of its relatively universal, democratic and transparent character. This supreme body of the Organization should not become the forum for general and inconclusive discussions. The Assembly, in accordance with the Charter, must assume its rightful place as the primary decision-making body on important international political and economic issues. In today’s world, the imperative of global participation and collective effort in the advancement of common objectives and the resolution of international problems is self-evident because of the mutual interdependence of the members of the international community. One of the most notable areas for serious cooperation involves the challenge of combating all forms of terrorism. Regrettably, the same Government that has engaged in sponsoring and aiding various forms of terrorism — through, inter alia, appropriating a budget for subversive operations against Iran, harbouring and assisting acknowledged terrorists, and supporting Israeli state terrorism, mass murders and abductions — has also prevented serious international action in this regard by irresponsibly levelling unsubstantiated accusations against others. I reiterate in this Assembly that levelling politically motivated accusations against one or a few States, groups or regions cannot and will not help in the resolution of this major international problem. The eradication of this international menace requires serious global cooperation based on the following criteria: condemnation and rejection of all forms of terrorism, regardless of the identity of the victims or perpetrators and irrespective of their political tendencies and objectives; refusal to provide sanctuary to terrorists or terrorist groups and prevention of operations by or on behalf of terrorists; and cessation of all baseless and unsubstantiated propaganda and allegations. We once again reiterate our commitment to participating in any serious, comprehensive and rule-based universal cooperation to combat and eradicate this inhuman phenomenon. In the field of disarmament and in its efforts to end the nightmare of nuclear holocaust, the international community has been plagued by unilateralism, secrecy and evasion of the rule of law. Ironically, in recent years, the major arms producers and suppliers have exhibited more concern over their proliferation than have those States that do not possess such sophisticated weaponry. At the same time, the former have been reluctant to accept any scheme of general and comprehensive disarmament under credible international monitoring. Some nuclear Powers and their allies continue to include the doctrine of nuclear response against non- nuclear threats in their defence alliances. In the International Court of Justice, these very Powers made every effort to prevent the Court from rendering a decision outlawing the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons. During the negotiations in the Conference on Disarmament on the finalization of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, in contravention of the Advisory Opinion of the International Court of Justice on the legal requirement of good-faith negotiations for nuclear disarmament, any reference to nuclear disarmament within a time-bound framework faced strong opposition by a small number of nuclear Powers. In the same negotiations, insistence on unilateral, non- transparent national technical means — as opposed to a multilateral and transparent international monitoring system — created a major obstacle for consensus. Even the commonly accepted principle of negotiations to resolve these and other problems and to attain consensus on this vital international instrument was vetoed. This undemocratic and dogmatic procedure resulted in the Assembly’s approval and opening for signature of a defective Treaty that does not reflect an international consensus. We, along with many other non-aligned States, will join the signatories of this Treaty solely because of our commitment to be an active participant in any effort to combat the inhumane weapons of mass destruction, while at the same time redoubling our efforts to achieve a nuclear-weapon free world. Non-proliferation policies have also been marred by discrimination, shortsightedness and ambiguity. On the one hand, Israel’s nuclear-weapons programme has continuously received the direct and indirect political and technical support of one State; on the other, the interventionist policy of coercive deprivation of other countries in the same region of their inalienable right to acquire nuclear technology for peaceful purposes has become a cornerstone of the foreign policy of the very same State. 27 The dissemination of false allegations to instil fear and anxiety, the depiction of an imaginary enemy and the fanning of division and tension have often been employed as pretexts to justify an external military presence and intervention as well as mind-boggling sales of excessive and unnecessary weapons systems. This behaviour characterizes the United States policy in the Persian Gulf, which has only resulted in the exacerbation of insecurity and instability within and between States of the region. In spite of obstructions and misinformation campaigns, the Islamic Republic of Iran has continued to articulate and pursue initiatives and measures aimed at fostering greater regional confidence; enhancing respect for principles of international law; bringing about transparency in armaments and reduction of military spending; creating zones free from weapons of mass destruction; strengthening peace and security through persistent endeavours to encourage and facilitate understanding and conciliation; and consolidating economic cooperation. In Central Asia and the Caucasus, cognizant of the religious, cultural, historical and commercial bonds that exist among member States of the Economic Cooperation Organization, the Islamic Republic of Iran has tried in earnest to expand areas of cooperation among member States of that important regional organization. The expansion of transportation networks, including the revival of the Silk Road, provides the possibility for a dramatic increase in the volume of trade not only among member States but also between them and other countries of Europe, East Asia and the Persian Gulf. Regarding Afghanistan, in pursuance of our mediation and in view of the fact that the return to peace and stability there requires all States, particularly those in the region, to use their influence in order to convince the warring factions to stop the vicious cycle of fratricide, we plan to convene a regional conference next month in Tehran, with the participation of regional foreign ministers and representatives of the United Nations and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. As regards the crisis in Tajikistan, we have used every means available to us to bring the positions of the parties to the conflict closer to each other, in the strong belief that these differences cannot be settled through force or by military means. Considering the consequences of the expansion of the conflict, more coordination and cooperation among regional States and between them and the United Nations are imperative. In Karabakh, we welcome the establishment and continuation of the ceasefire and believe that this conflict can only be resolved through negotiations, withdrawal from occupied territories and the return of refugees to their homelands. The Islamic Republic of Iran, enjoying friendly relations with both Armenia and Azerbaijan, is prepared to continue its efforts towards the resolution of this conflict in cooperation with other States in the region. In northern Iraq, the policy of the Islamic Republic of Iran has always been founded on maintaining the security of our border areas and the prevention of terrorist infiltration, coupled with consistent emphasis on and respect for Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity as well as on the prevention of tension and conflict between various Iraqi Kurdish factions. Regrettably, obstructionist and monopolistic tendencies, as well as self-serving interventions and indifference, have resulted in a grave humanitarian nightmare and the influx of hundreds of thousands of innocent refugees across Iran’s borders. As a cornerstone of its foreign policy, Iran has always pursued the promotion and strengthening of peace and understanding not only in the region but also in the world at large. During the recent visit of the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran to Africa, our efforts to bring about reconciliation between Sudan and Uganda led to the signature of a memorandum of peace between the two neighbouring States and we hope that, with everyone’s cooperation and understanding, a more lasting peace can be attained. Our world today, more than at any other time, needs and deserves morality, security, mutual respect and confidence, the rule of law, the participation of all and collective cooperation for human development. The new international totalitarianism, notwithstanding its deceptive facade, is inherently antithetical to these values and constitutes the very negation of the recent achievements of human society. The progressive evolution of the international community can be achieved not by replacing domestic dictators with international tyranny, but only through a collective endeavour to achieve common human ideals and aspirations, including, inter alia, understanding 28 through respect for holy values and mutual tolerance for the cultures and beliefs of others; collective participation and cooperation in the resolution of international issues within a free, democratic and transparent decision-making process; security through the rule of law and practical commitment to international norms and obligations; and the re-direction of energies and resources from coercion and the arms race to universal respect for human rights and human development in all of its cultural, moral, social, political and economic dimensions.﻿Allow me to begin by expressing, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Mali, heartfelt congratulations to the President on his election to lead the fifty-first regular session of the General Assembly. His election reflects the trust and esteem he enjoys in this Organization because of his great diplomatic skills and his vast experience of international relations. While this is an honour for him, it also honours his country, Malaysia, a friend of my country’s and one that plays an important role in international affairs, particularly within the Non- Aligned Movement. I am therefore convinced that the President will conduct the business of the fifty-first session in a competent and well-advised manner. He can certainly count on the support of the Republic of Mali to contribute to the success of his mission. Allow me also to thank his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the outstanding work he accomplished during his term of office. Finally, I should like, on behalf of my delegation, to pay well-deserved homage to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his courageous action and tireless efforts for peace and understanding among peoples. The end of the cold war gave the peoples of the world cause to hope for the advent of a new era marked by the promotion of more stable and balanced international relations. To this end, the international community must mobilize to find just and lasting solutions to the many hotbeds of tension and conflict that jeopardize international peace and security. In this respect, Mali welcomes the qualitative development of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We welcome the holding of elections on 14 September, which marked a decisive stage for the future of the country. We exhort the international community to work to preserve and consolidate this newly restored peace. We likewise welcome the possibilities that arose at the latest Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) summit in Liberia for a settlement based on 24 national reconciliation and the restoration of democratically elected institutions. Mali has worked steadfastly to find a solution to the crisis in Liberia and is prepared to make available a battalion to the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG). Likewise, Mali supports the efforts undertaken by the international community to assist the people of Burundi to establish a lasting peace and national reconciliation. Mali also supports United Nations efforts to establish a just and lasting peace in Angola. The international community must do everything possible in Somalia to help bring about reconciliation and the establishment of national institutions that are supported and trusted by all Somalis. Recent developments on the question of Western Sahara require that our Organization work even more intensively towards the holding of a referendum, in keeping with the relevant resolutions adopted on the matter. Mali has always reaffirmed its support for international law and is concerned at the continued sanctions imposed on Libya, which have compounded the sufferings of the Libyan people, with whom my country reiterates it solidarity. Like other countries in the international community, Mali is seriously concerned over recent developments in the situation in the Middle East. My country remains convinced that in order to settle the Israeli-Arab conflict, there is no alternative to the possibilities offered by the Madrid Peace Conference. Mali therefore calls for the continuation of the peace process and for compliance with the commitments previously undertaken. To promote more stable and balanced international relations, the present mechanisms for the consolidation of peace need to be strengthened; but we also need to find new tools. The Agenda for Peace opens new possibilities in this area. Accordingly, Mali welcomed the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty as a historic stage in the strengthening of general and complete disarmament. We likewise welcomed the adoption on 11 April 1996 of the Pelindaba Treaty, which made Africa a nuclear-weapon- free zone. My country also hopes that further progress might be made to eliminate anti-personnel mines. Mali has demonstrated its commitment to strengthening the process of general and complete disarmament through specific national and international initiatives. Accordingly, in 1994, the President of the Republic of Mali, His Excellency Mr. Alpha Oumar Konaré, requested and obtained special assistance from the Secretary-General of the United Nations to establish a consultative mission responsible for studying ways and means to stem the proliferation of small arms in the Sahelo-Saharan region. Indeed, our countries, which are not arms producers, have become lucrative markets for the war industry. Where did these weapons come from? What are their transit points? An answer to these questions, in my delegation’s view, would make it possible to find ways and means to guarantee that the people of the affected countries enjoy a safe environment conducive to pursuing development. Besides the support of other countries in the Sahelo- Saharan region, Mali’s initiative was also backed by other regions during the forty-ninth and fiftieth sessions of the General Assembly, namely through the adoption of resolutions 49/75 G and 50/70 H. Mali’s initiative helped give rise to our Organization’s now-famous concept of micro-disarmament, which seeks to draw the attention of the international community to the disastrous consequences of small weapons, particularly in the developing countries, where they are used mostly to fuel conflicts. A better-structured and more united international order seems today to be the very precondition for international peace and security. Development is one of the major challenges that our Organization must meet today. As Pope Paul VI has stressed, “Development is another word for peace.” Thus, in order to establish the basis for a lasting peace, the problems of poverty, destitution and social marginalization must therefore be given priority at the United Nations. I should like in this respect to stress the great importance Mali attaches to the drafting of an Agenda for Development, the indispensable counterpart to the Agenda for Peace. This entails the organization of international cooperation for development on a new basis, an area in which my country is working with resolve. The role of the United Nations system in the development process also must be strengthened. 25 In this connection, the Agenda for Development — which my delegation hopes will be adopted at this session of the General Assembly — will make it possible to refocus the world’s attention on cooperation for development, particularly by encouraging new, more complete and more effective approaches to development. It could also provide a way to strengthen coordination within the United Nations system, particularly by recognizing the Organization as a network of institutions responsible for the economic and social development of the Member States. In this respect, because of the persistent foreign-debt crisis of the countries of the South and the dwindling of official development assistance, the question of development financing requires special attention. The Agenda for Development should likewise take into account the recommendations contained in the Plans of Action adopted by the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro; the International Conference on Population and Development, held in Cairo; the World Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen; the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing; and the second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, held in Istanbul. The Agenda for Development clearly must give special attention to Africa. The socio-economic situation of our continent is indeed of great concern. Africa, which is confronting all kinds of epidemic and endemic diseases — including malaria and AIDS — has only one doctor for every 18,000 people, as compared to one doctor for fewer than 400 people in developed countries. More than 80 million school-age African children do not have access to primary or secondary education. More than one third of Africa’s population suffers from famine, and more than 23 million children are malnourished. Finally, Africa is reeling from an external debt that in 1995 was estimated to be $322 billion, the debt servicing of which absorbs more than one third of its export earnings. Given this situation, in an increasingly interdependent world, the international community must show solidarity with Africa. That is why a solidarity pact between Africa and the rest of the international community was sealed with the adoption of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. As we know, under the terms of this New Agenda, Africa solemnly reaffirms that Africans themselves are primarily responsible for the economic and social development of the continent, while the international community undertakes to support Africa’s efforts in attaining its development objectives. Commendable efforts have been made by African countries in implementing this New Agenda. In the political and economic spheres, in particular, these have been achieved by consolidating the democratic process, by promoting investments and by taking account of environmental and population problems in development policies. Mali has thus established a policy for economic recovery and improved public financing. Macro-economic goals, on the whole, have been attained. A broad range of structural measures has been implemented through price liberalization; privatization; the elimination or restructuring of many public enterprises; and the reform of the agricultural sector, with a view to reducing costs and to increasing and diversifying production. These tangible results enabled Mali in February 1996 to conclude a new three-year agreement for the period 1996-1998 in the framework of the Reinforced Structural Adjustment Facility. Mindful of the need to accompany the promotion of economic growth with resolute efforts in the social domain to improve significantly the living standards of peoples and to reduce poverty permanently, my Government has expanded social services. In addition, priority in socio-economic development programmes has been given to women. Since 26 March 1991, Mali has continued its steady progress towards consolidating its regained peace and building a State based on the rule of law. The qualitative developments that have taken place in Mali’s northern regions show clearly the determination of Mali’s young democracy to tackle and resolve all problems in a concerted and peaceful way, with the active participation of all players and with scrupulous respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The organization of the “Flame of Peace” ceremony was an eloquent illustration of this. It was a symbolic ceremony to destroy the stockpiles of several thousand weapons that were surrendered by ex-combatants of the Mouvement et Fronts Unis de l’Azawad and the Mouvement Patriotique Malien Ganda Koy. It took place on 27 March 1996 in Timbuktu under the presidency of the Head of State of Mali, His Excellency Mr. Alpha Oumar Konaré, and in the presence of the President of the Republic of Ghana, the current President of ECOWAS and several ministerial delegations of Mali’s neighbouring countries. The United Nations, which contributed to the peace efforts through the Department of Political Affairs and the United Nations Development Programme as well 26 as to the small-arms collection process, was also represented by an important delegation. During that ceremony the Mouvement et Fronts Unis de l’Azawad and the Mouvement Patriotique Malien Ganda Koy issued a joint declaration under which they “solemnly and irreversibly proclaim the dissolution of their respective movements and fronts”. These positive developments in northern Mali mean that real prospects now exist for integration and socio- economic development in the region. We therefore appeal to the international community to support the efforts of the Government of Mali to consolidate democracy in the country; to continue to strengthen the peace that has been established with the participation of the country’s various communities; and to show its solidarity concretely, by providing the necessary humanitarian assistance to meet the needs of returning refugees and to help promote their reintegration. It is thus important to undertake urgent work to develop the regions concerned by, inter alia, reintegrating displaced peoples, restoring our administration, boosting agricultural production and improving the functioning of public services, in particular in the areas of education, health and justice. I take this opportunity to urgently appeal to Mali’s development partners quickly and effectively to implement this programme, which, in the long run, aims at development within a State based on a strengthened rule of law and on democracy and human rights. Respect for the rule of law is of major importance to Mali’s Third Republic, which makes the promotion and defence of human rights one of its priorities. In this connection I should also note the institutionalization, which has now been going on for two years, of the Space for Democratic Discourse, which enables individuals, civil society and political parties to make direct and public appeals to the Government on 10 December every year with regard to the respect of human rights in Mali. We likewise have institutionalized a children’s parliament, which provides a forum for the free expression of Mali’s children to assist the public authorities in implementing the national plan of action for the survival, development and protection of children. Mali — one of the six countries that initiated the World Summit for Children in 1990 — welcomed the commemorative meeting held on 30 September 1996 to review the progress made and to give thought to the additional steps that need to be taken on behalf of children. The consolidation of Mali’s young democracy requires also the harmonious organization of relations between civilians and the military. With the support of the United Nations, the Government of Mali held a seminar on this subject last July. A code of good conduct is being drafted in this connection. I should like to underscore here, simply but forcefully, the importance Mali attaches to human rights, in particular the rights of women and children. We are convinced that the role played by our Organization must be backed up by concrete actions that stress the right to education, health and life. The international economic situation clearly shows that the gap between developed and developing countries is widening. By generating an increase in inequalities and in the risk of social upheavals, this imbalance is making the future of the world increasingly uncertain. Given the situation, the international community must find adequate solutions. It is imperative that we find an answer to the external debt problem of the countries of the South. In spite of the progress made in this area, relief measures for debt servicing remain insufficient. My delegation therefore makes an urgent appeal that the ongoing discussions at the current meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund on the creation of a special fund aimed at considerably reducing the multilateral debt of poor countries under structural adjustment result in a successful outcome. My delegation deeply appreciates the important extension of $500 million, intended to reduce the debt of African countries, made by the Group of Seven major industrialized countries last June at their summit meeting in Lyons. This is an encouraging sign and an example to follow. It is just as important to support the efforts of the African countries to diversify their economies and the range of their commodities. It is also necessary to reverse the current trend towards disinvestment and dwindling financial resources destined for Africa. 27 We should facilitate the access of African products to world markets, particularly by lifting the tariff and non- tariff barriers that affect its finished, semi-finished and manufactured goods. They should also receive preferential treatment, as provided in the Final Act of the Uruguay Round concluded in Marrakesh. Finally, the international community should give its full support to the Secretary-General’s United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa so that it does not suffer the same fate as the United Nations Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and Development. In addition to the critical economic and social situation in Africa, there is the problem of the least developed countries. For this reason, my country appeals to the international community to implement urgently the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. Mali also welcomes the proclamation of 1996 as the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty. We hope that the international community will achieve the goals of the first United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty. My country hopes that the next World Food Summit, to be held in November in Rome, will make it possible for the international community to reaffirm its commitment to ensuring that poverty-eradication strategies are fully integrated into all United Nations initiatives. Mali has signed and ratified most international arrangements regarding the environment and therefore welcomes the convening of a special session devoted to a review of the progress made by Agenda 21. Mali intends to continue to work towards the elaboration of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa. Mali is therefore pleased at how fast the necessary ratification of 50 Member States was achieved. My delegation is nevertheless concerned about the deadlock on the question of a world mechanism. Mali believes that the mechanism should serve as a data bank and a supplier of the resources necessary to implement national plans to combat desertification. Our Organization faces new challenges, both in the consolidation of peace and in economic and social development. Its role is constantly growing, and increasing numbers of voices throughout the world appeal to it. In order to meet the challenges of the day, our Organization must have a sound and adequate financial basis. It must also carry out the necessary reforms so that it can be more effective and thus meet the aspirations of peoples for security, justice and development. Accordingly, these reforms must apply to the Security Council, the General Assembly and the Secretariat, but particularly to the specialized and development agencies responsible for elaborating and implementing development programmes. This is an ambitious challenge, and Africa must contribute significantly to efforts in that direction. The international community must renew its trust in Africa by giving a second term of office to the Head of our Organization, in keeping with past practice.  ﻿My country is especially pleased at the President’s election to lead the General Assembly. He represents a great country that plays an important role in the Non-Aligned Movement and the Group of 77 and I am glad that he is to preside over our work during this crucial period for our Organization. 17 I should also like to endorse the remarks made by Ireland’s Foreign Minister in the name of the European Union. Last year, we celebrated the first half century of the United Nations existence, during which its energies were devoted, with a success universally acknowledged, to the organization of international society. A mammoth collective undertaking has been accomplished and the United Nations has become the keystone of an international system founded on law and the peaceful settlement of conflicts. This collective undertaking owes much to the determined action of successive Secretaries-General, and I should like to pay a special and warm tribute here to Mr. Boutros-Ghali, whose determination, vision of the future and firmness have given our Organization a presence and vitality rarely achieved. He deserves our confidence. Today, as the century reaches its turning point, the Organization is confronted with another major challenge: globalization. In every sphere, the ideas and realities to which we were accustomed are changing at a pace unequalled in human history. The movement of people, of ideas and images, and of goods is accelerating as distances shrink. At the same time, the standardization of cultural practices — and the legitimate reactions this provokes — the general spread of low-cost high technologies and intensified competition bring into question the positions that have been achieved and the functioning, if not the very foundation, of international society. At the same time, the production of wealth is increasing tenfold and scientific progress is growing rapidly, while unexpected opportunities for development are being given to new nations. But these benefits have adverse effects. The control fragile States have over their development is being eroded, national legislation is becoming inapplicable and the notion of territorial integrity is changing in meaning. In short, national authorities are too often reduced to powerlessness by transnational phenomena over which they have only scant control. If we are not careful, we are going to be living in a world without criteria, without values, without references, in which some — the strongest and the richest — will be in a position to decide alone on the future of the planet. It should come as no surprise that, in these circumstances, the United Nations has many detractors. Our Organization is in effect a privileged forum in which the framework of a genuine international society can be built, a framework that frees the forces of creativity and development and represses the forces of violence and oppression. It is up to all of us present here to enable the United Nations to play that role and to ensure peace, security and progress in these new circumstances and in keeping with its mandate. Rest assured that France, a founding Member of the Organization and permanent member of the Security Council, will devote all its energies to this task and will be in the front ranks of this new fight. Our world is confronted today with terrible problems that know no borders and, sadly, spare no population: terrorism, crime and drugs. The fight against these scourges is foremost in our concerns and high on the international agenda. Accordingly, an uncompromising fight against terrorism, whatever its forms, perpetrators and motives, constitutes our priority. This is why I convened a conference on terrorism in Paris last July that brought together the G-7 countries and Russia. We adopted 25 practical, specific recommendations. They will be implemented by each State and will strengthen international cooperation against terrorism. Therefore, today I make a solemn call on the entire international community to join wholeheartedly in this fight. We must also react without weakness to the challenge of organized crime, in the knowledge that it knows how to make the fullest use of the possibilities that have been opened up by the liberalization of trade. For it is the very foundation of our societies and institutions that it endangers today. International cooperation is indispensable to stem this phenomenon. France, pursuing the path mapped out by the Canadian presidency, has drafted a corpus of legal and operational recommendations with its G-7 partners and Russia to improve the effectiveness of the fight against this scourge. These should guide in particular the action of the States most affected by transnational organized crime. France recently strengthened its financial legislation against money-laundering. All States should pay particular attention to this phenomenon, which is one of the hardest forms of organized crime to counter. One of the most loathsome aspects of organized crime is that which targets our children. A world summit on combating the sexual exploitation of children was recently held in Stockholm. That is good, but it is still not enough. Everyone must now make a commitment to implementing effective measures for immediate application. I urge all States represented here to act quickly and with determination in this area which, more than any other, affects our future. The Assembly may rest assured of France’s political resolve. 18 Drugs are a formidable threat today because of the ravages they inflict on young people. International cooperation must be solid. The producer and consumer countries must recognize their shared responsibility. The international community must therefore continue to pursue convergent policies to reduce the supply of illegal substances and the demand for them. The European Union has chosen such a global policy and has launched large- scale actions in close coordination with international institutions, in particular the United Nations International Drug Control Programme. France strongly supports the proposal to convene a special session of the General Assembly devoted to drugs in 1998. These new perils do not supplant the traditional challenges, which our Organization must address with sustained vigilance and unwavering firmness. Peace-keeping remains the central function of our Organization under the terms of the founding Charter. The mission of the United Nations to soothe tensions, separate combatants and resolve conflicts remains fundamental. The panoply of available instruments is becoming more diversified. Recent additions to conventional peace- keeping missions include activities to consolidate peace, preventive diplomacy measures and even regional conferences — such as I hope will soon take place with regard to the situation in the Great Lakes region. Sanctions constitute one of these instruments. They are a useful weapon, but they penalize populations and must therefore be used with prudence and moderation, follow strict criteria and — I stress this — always be limited in time. Only under those conditions can sanctions, which are sometimes necessary to prevent something worse, continue to be used by our Organization with the required legitimacy. Of course, we cannot refer to the traditional challenges to peace without speaking about current regional conflicts. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, where my country has paid a heavy tribute, France is pleased that elections could be held, imperfect though they were. That represents an essential stage in the return to peace provided for by the agreements signed in Paris in 1995. But peace still has to be consolidated, devastated territories be reconstructed, refugees encouraged to return and a civilian society rebuilt. To that end, France has proposed a plan of consolidated action by the international community with a time-frame of two years. With this goal in mind, we will very shortly be hosting an international conference in Paris to examine, and I hope adopt, this proposal. Similarly, the peace process in the Middle East seems to be at a crucial stage. I wish here to express my anxiety about it. I certainly believe the process to be irreversible, but I am also aware of the precariousness of the gains and the urgency of the need for long-term solutions. We are half-way there. I say “we”, because this process concerns not just Arabs and Israelis but all of us here. For France, peace in the Middle East is built upon dialogue between equal partners, respect for the identity of each and the right of peoples to the free determination of their destiny, the affirmation of their independence, and security. That is why — and I wish to emphasize this point — France believes that there will be no lasting peace in the region, based on an exchange of land for peace, unless the right of the Palestinian people to self- determination is respected, together with their legitimate aspirations for a State. We believe that a just and balanced agreement between Israelis and Palestinians cannot avoid the issues of Jerusalem, refugees and the settlements in the Palestinian territories. Finally, a lasting peace presupposes that Israel is assured of its existence within secure and recognized borders. France believes that complete withdrawal from the Golan Heights in exchange for total peace constitutes the basis of an agreement between Syria and Israel, and that Lebanon must regain full and complete sovereignty over the whole of its territory. Based on these principles, France intends to have a greater and more active presence than ever in the Middle East, with which it has close and long-standing relations. It will pursue this policy in close consultation with its European partners. Furthermore, Europe must have a place, alongside the two sponsors of the peace process, commensurate with the major contribution it is making to the region’s development. While we are endeavouring to build peace in areas in crisis, our efforts are no less ambitious for the entire European continent. In building step by step what we call an “architecture of security“, we are really offering the international community a pillar of peace. France is making an important contribution to the establishment on 19 the European continent a system of global security that leaves no one out on the edge. The construction of peace in Europe began with the construction of European institutions. It is being continued by deepening the Union. The intergovernmental Conference represents a decisive stage in this process, the forerunner of expansion, which is vital to the stability and prosperity of the continent. France wishes to see the Union go still further by giving substance to the European identity in security and defence matters. To that end, we would like to see a strengthening of the Western European Union and its gradual rapprochement with the European Union. The European identity is also based on the reform of the Atlantic Alliance. France, after taking a decisive step, is now working actively with its allies on the adaptation of structures. This should allow the emergence of a genuine European security and defence identity within the Alliance and make it possible in practice for the Western European Union, and therefore the European Union, to use the assets of the Alliance for military action that Europeans decide to undertake themselves. This reform is also the key to the process of expanding the Alliance, with which France is ready to assist. That expansion must naturally go hand-in- hand with in-depth dialogue and cooperation with Russia. The third and last aspect of the structure is the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which is the sole forum for security in which all the European States are represented on an equal footing. That is why France believes that it is necessary to strengthen the organization. We hope that the Lisbon summit will provide the occasion to move towards the drafting of a charter or treaty linking all the States of the continent. Important events therefore await us on the path that we have mapped out, including the OSCE summit in December and the NATO summit next year. The latter should bring together all the European States for a “pan-Europe day”, demonstrating the community of security interests of all the countries on the continent, including Russia and our North American allies whose role in European security remains decisive. That is our ambition for a Europe of security that leaves no one out and is safer and more stable for the entire international community. In this changing world, it is for the United Nations to bring out the common values that will be the foundations of civilization in the twenty-first century. It is thanks to its actions that we hope to build a safer, less harsh world for its inhabitants. First, we hope it will be a world in which the spectre of nuclear war has faded. For many years, public opinion called for a complete ban on nuclear tests. It was a hope and a plan that was certainly worthy, but remained blocked by the reality of East-West confrontation. France welcomes the signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which I had the honour to sign yesterday. This Treaty marks a major turning-point in the world’s strategic balances. It puts an end to the possibility of the nuclear- weapon States’ developing new types of nuclear weapons, and it makes a decisive contribution to the fight against nuclear-weapon proliferation. The Treaty thus opens the way to a more stable, safer world which will cease to be haunted by the twin dangers of the nuclear-arms race and the proliferation of these weapons. There is another development which I find remarkable: the endorsement of human rights as a major principle of international relations. And the United Nations is at the centre of this development. I should like in this regard to pay tribute to the remarkable work done by the Commission on Human Rights. In often difficult circumstances, it has pursued with pragmatism and tenacity its patient efforts to awaken consciences, to galvanize energies and to promote the rule of law in concrete ways. Our aim must not be to pronounce excommunications or establish a blacklist, generally to no effect. Rather, it must be to promote the protection of individuals and the progress of law with due respect for differences. I should also like to reaffirm France’s determination to see crimes against humanity punished. The condemnation they warrant cannot brook any exception. Together with others, France took the initiative of proposing the establishment of the international criminal Tribunal and the international Tribunal for Rwanda. I wish to reaffirm France’s unqualified support for their founding work, and its backing in order that the tribunals might carry out their work in full. 20 Lastly, France is pleased that the foundations that have thus been laid have helped to speed up the debates on the establishment of an international criminal court, which we earnestly desire and to which we attach a high priority. There are other important areas which we have begun to consider. At this time when workers, money, factories and commerce operate at a heightened pace, it is essential to develop dialogue among the partners of economic life. This is really the only solid basis on which to build social protection that preserves the interests of all without harming the growth of economies. The fiftieth anniversary of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) provided the opportunity to recall the essential role of this organization in defining these minimal norms, without which the economic world is but a vast jungle. Universality, however, must not lead to uniformity. The definition of common values, accepted by all, is based on respect for the identities that underpin the cultures of the world. Our values will thus command all the more respect for being expressed in all our respective languages. Accordingly, we welcome the fact that the General Assembly last year adopted a resolution on multilingualism by a very large majority. Our civilizations, languages and cultures, inherited from an often turbulent history, but of irreplaceable richness, are a precious legacy for humankind. The importance that my country ascribes to the French-speaking community reflects its determination to maintain the specificity and richness of the profoundly original world view of several hundreds of millions of people. We will not give this up. The search for a new world ethic is not limited to human rights but extends to the whole of international life. Since 1945, international trade has been a powerful growth factor, contributing to a large extent to the expansion of the industrialized economies and to the success of the so-called emerging countries. But here too we must have rules of the game, acknowledged at the world level, so as to develop and regulate trade, ensure that it is fair and prevent unilateral conduct. I should like to mention here the dangers of unilateralism. Unilateralism: behind this technocratic word lurks the temptation to impose the law of the strongest at the expense of dialogue and negotiation. France and Europe cannot accept that one country, even if it is the most powerful, attempt to regulate world trade by itself by means of decisions that have extra- territorial scope. The World Trade Organization does not allow it, and no one should doubt the firmness of French and European reactions were such measures actually to be implemented. The globalization of the economy and the liberalization of trade and investments have opened up unprecedented prospects. However, we must take care not to allow the gap to widen between the nations that trade, invest and derive profit from this new factor and those that remain on the sidelines of this new prosperity. Each nation is responsible for itself and must create, through rigorous public management and compliance with its legislative rulings, optimum conditions for freeing private initiative, a factor in economic and commercial progress. But I do not believe that one can leave to market forces alone the care of ensuring the development of the poorest nations. Here, too, the United Nations has an important role to play. By its side, the wealthiest States must affirm their solidarity in a tangible way: actively and effectively, this solidarity must assist the developing countries without becoming a substitute for them. On the threshold of a new century, poverty and exclusion cannot constitute the sole prospects for two-thirds of humankind. France, for its part, will not accept this. This commitment concerns Africa in particular, where real prospects for progress are beginning to emerge. Africa has embarked with courage and perseverance on the path to readjustment and recovery, which will enable it to find its place again in the great flows of world trade. For the first time in a long time, Africa’s growth rate has been on the order of 5 per cent these past two years, higher than its demographic expansion, very high though it is. This is a reassuring sign, attributable to the efforts made by the African States themselves. They have been able to cut public deficits, establish realistic monetary parities, open up their markets and move towards regional integration and democratization. Such 21 achievements, which are the result of structural reforms, seem to us to justify our confidence. France believes in Africa’s future. Still, official development assistance must be maintained and strengthened, but this assistance must be the subject of many initiatives. France has taken such initiatives within the European Union, the African Development Bank, the International Development Association and the International Monetary Fund. Recently, at the summit of industrialized countries held in Lyons, my country reaffirmed the need to increase aid to the poorest countries, asking for more generous treatment of debt for them, and for a new global partnership to be defined between the developing countries and the multilateral institutions. In this new world context, we have to consider the progress that the United Nations needs to make to be able to meet its responsibilities for the next century. France approves of the current discussions on improving the representative character of the Security Council, in particular with respect to Germany, Japan and the States of the South. Similarly, under the decisive impetus of the Secretary- General, the Organization has embarked on a vast effort for structural reform, the first results of which are beginning to show. It is not a matter of changing everything but of seeing that every institution is in a position to make a useful contribution to the collective work in its own sphere. That is why the members of the G-7 have proposed putting the savings realized through reforms into development projects. France would like to see the reform of the United Nations economic and social sector concluded quickly so as to strengthen the overall coherence of the Organization. To that end, the roles and mandates of the specialized agencies and commissions in particular should be better defined, and waste and duplication eliminated. These proposals are dictated solely by the wish to help the United Nations better fulfil its mission of fighting poverty and exclusion on a global scale. In the case of the United Nations budget, many of us are worried about the financial crisis that threatens to paralyse the United Nations. The European Union has put forward concrete proposals for overcoming this crisis. It is now up to all States that have let their arrears accumulate to assume their responsibilities. Whatever some may say, the United Nations is still one of our best chances for building a better world. Let us not spoil it. I should like to congratulate warmly Mr. Razali on his election to the high office of President of the General Assembly. I am confident that under his wise and able guidance our deliberations will be most successful. I should also like to thank His Excellency Mr. Do Amaral for his most valuable contribution to the work of the previous session of the General Assembly. We have just left behind 50 years in the life of this universal Organization, which was founded with the ideal of serving and guiding humankind in its common quest to make the world a better place to live. The commemoration last year of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations marked an important milestone in our journey. Yet we find that our common pursuit of a new and more promising order of international relations is far from its goal. The new expectations and hopes that the end of the cold-war era instilled in us all have, unfortunately, been short-lived. Indeed, such dark forces as extreme ethnic nationalism, aggression, hegemonistic tendencies, intolerance, racism, xenophobia and terrorism have been unleashed to wreak havoc on a global scale. At the same time, economic, social and environmental problems, as well as risks in the military security realm, have assumed global proportions. No country can claim to be immune from any of the problems we are facing today, which need common solutions. In fact, there is an emerging consensus that more than ever, our common problems require global solutions, which must be formulated in a spirit of solidarity and cooperation. This spirit can find concrete expression only within this Organization, which continues to be the only global forum for collective cooperation and effective international action. Therefore, it is our duty to generations to come to refashion this institution so as to further strengthen it and equip it with the means to meet the challenge of the new era that begins with the twenty-first century. As we embark on the second half-century of our Organization, it is high time that the international community reassess the ways and means by which it can give a new impetus to the efforts aimed at building a better and more secure future for all humankind. Substantial work to this end has already been carried out within the United Nations system. In particular, the series of major conferences on basic issues of common concern laid the groundwork for future action. The chain of these conferences, which began with the 1990 World Summit for Children and ended with the Conference on Human Settlements in Istanbul this past June, has covered virtually every aspect of human interest. The declarations and programmes of action they adopted will serve as our road map in our efforts to achieve their final objectives. It was a distinct privilege for Turkey to host, in Istanbul this year, the last major international conference of the century, Habitat II. That conference played an instrumental role in creating a greater awareness that adequate shelter for all and sustainable human settlements in a rapidly urbanizing and globalizing world are the common challenges before us. The Istanbul Declaration and the Habitat Agenda will be our guiding instruments to meet these challenges. We attach great importance to the follow-up of that successful conference. Although criticized at times for its limitations, the United Nations has nevertheless played a crucial role in the search for global solutions to the problems encountered in every field of human endeavour. Yet the challenges that it will face in the twenty-first century will probably be far greater and more formidable than ever before, and the United Nations, therefore, has to promptly adapt to changing times. For this reason, we support the ongoing reform process within the United Nations. In this respect, streamlining, rationalizing, revitalizing and restructuring the United Nations system and its work are the widely accepted components needed to bring about a more effective, responsive, representative, democratic and accountable world Organization. These modifications, which are currently under intense consideration at various levels, will, to a large extent, determine the effectiveness of the United Nations in the years to come. Since January 1994, the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and other matters has been formulating a set of guidelines for the ongoing reform process. The general issue before us here is the enhancement of the representative character of the Security Council and the democratization of its method of work. Strongly in favour of a comprehensive reform, Turkey last year formally introduced a proposal for the enlargement of the Security Council. As the representative character of the Council has, despite minor adjustments, eroded steadily, we believe that a Council 4 General Assembly 15th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 30 September 1996 with at least 25 members would be more representative and thus more effective. We hold the view that the Council should be enlarged by 10 additional non-permanent members and that the proposed new additional seats should rotate among a predetermined list of about 30 to 40 countries. These countries should be selected within the geographical groups according to a set of objective criteria that can be modified, of course, in time. The list would consequently be flexible and updated after a certain period of time to conform to arising new conditions. As regards to its working methods and procedures, the Council has already taken some important steps. There is, however, a widespread belief that these steps fall short of the legitimate expectations of the great majority of the Member States. Hence, more work needs to be done in this sphere, especially on questions on which important differences still exist. On the other hand, the Open-ended High-level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System is in the process of formulating recommendations for reform, with the General Assembly and the Secretariat as its main areas of interest. Turkey favours the continuation of the mandate of the Working Group to enable it to complete its work. The challenges and risks we face in the military security field call for measures that are broad in scope and application. This feature alone underscores the unique mandate and authority of the United Nations to address these challenges in their global dimensions. Arms control and disarmament — focusing distinctly and with a sense of urgency on measures and regimes destined to curb the alarming trends in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and in the technologies for their means of delivery — must remain high on our agenda. Turkey, as a Member State of the Conference on Disarmament, is pleased to have joined the overwhelming majority of nations in the efforts to conclude and adopt the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. The Treaty, which I signed on 24 September, constitutes an indispensable step towards the eventual goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. Accumulation of conventional weapons beyond legitimate defense needs is inherently destabilizing. Devising responsible policies to be globally adhered to in arms transfers, with due regard to the impact of such transfers on regional and international stability, is not a lesser priority. We must ensure that the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms becomes a more effective tool for monitoring and for transparency in transfers. On a parallel track, the international community must vigorously pursue a more concerted effort to eradicate illicit arms trafficking, not solely as an arms and export- control measure, but more importantly as a key component in the international fight against terrorism. One of the most daunting tasks before the United Nations is to foster greater international solidarity and concerted action against terrorism. We should not shy away from the responsibility to meet this challenge head- on, because terrorism not only poses a threat to international peace and stability, but also violates the most fundamental human right of all: the very right to live. International cooperation is imperative if we choose to live free of fear. The United Nations has to play a central role in this respect. General Assembly resolutions on human rights and terrorism and a Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism are significant milestones, paving the way for effective international cooperation to eradicate this common enemy. In combating terrorism, we should not lose sight of the fact that what is equally important is to fight against, and not to condone, the countries that are behind it. Transnational organized crime, with its connections to drug trafficking and terrorist organizations, also poses a serious threat to the stability of our societies. We will continue to vigorously support international cooperation to combat this evil. In 1995, we also celebrated the United Nations Year for Tolerance. A culture of tolerance — which is vital for consolidating democracy and preventing ethnic conflicts, racist tendencies and xenophobia — has been promoted through various international and regional activities under the umbrella of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Current developments unmistakably demonstrate how crucial it is to keep this precious concept alive within society and in bilateral, regional and international relations. We attach great importance to the follow-up of the Year and will present a draft resolution under the relevant agenda item of the General Assembly. Located on the fault line of several regions fraught with conflicts and instability, Turkey naturally is seriously concerned by developments on its periphery that threaten regional and international peace and security. We have been playing a crucial role in the efforts to find lasting and just solutions to the current problems. We are also actively taking part in various United Nations initiatives, 5 General Assembly 15th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 30 September 1996 including peacekeeping operations and preventive diplomacy activities. Turning to one of the questions that is high on our agenda, our fundamental policy towards Iraq continues to be our commitment to the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of that country. The full compliance by Iraq with all of its obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions remains vital for the return to normalcy in the region. Our main objective here is the restoration of peace, stability and security on our borders, as well as in the region as a whole. We are closely following the recent developments in northern Iraq, which may further aggravate the already delicate situation in the region. To bring durable calm to the area, all segments of the local population — Kurds, Turkomans in particular, since they have not been mentioned up to this point to the extent that they deserve; Arabs; Assyrians; and others — should fully participate in any local administrative arrangement, and their rights should be guaranteed. Northern Iraq should not be permitted to serve as an area that poses a threat to the security of the neighbouring countries. Turkey will not tolerate terrorist elements using northern Iraq to stage terrorist acts against its territory. We are determined to take all necessary measures to protect our legitimate security interests and to deny terrorist elements the possibility of launching terrorist operations against our population from northern Iraq. We have fulfilled our responsibilities emanating from the sanctions regime against Iraq, despite the extreme economic burden this has entailed for our country. More than six years after the sanctions’ inception, Turkey is now at the forefront of the countries that have been directly and most adversely affected by the sanctions regime. In fact, the heavy toll we have been required to pay has long exceeded our ability to sustain the financial strain on our economy, nor can we pay it any longer. Security Council resolution 986 (1995), when implemented, will alleviate the suffering of the Iraqi people while also bringing limited relief for Turkey. However, this relief can in no way be commensurate with our losses. Consequently, we have applied to the United Nations Sanctions Committee with a view to obtaining further appropriate compensation within the framework of the sanctions regime. In this context, I wish to reiterate that we attach great importance to the implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995) as soon as possible. In the wider context of the Middle East, we are concerned about what we hope will be only a temporary impasse in the Middle East peace process. As a devoted supporter of the peace process, which we regard as the only viable alternative for the region, we desire to see it pick up its momentum. This indisputably requires the parties to live up to their commitments. As we underlined in our statement before the Security Council on 27 September, any action that may adversely affect the peace process should be avoided. The Israeli decision to open an entrance to a tunnel in the vicinity of the Mosque and the chain of reactions it provoked are of that nature. We are deeply saddened by the high number of casualties. We call on both sides to exercise utmost restraint and to prevent further violence. We urge the Israeli Government to review its decision and to refrain from any action that can be construed as provocation and from resorting to the use of force. We welcome Security Council resolution 1073 (1996). We expect President Arafat and Prime Minister Netanyahu to meet immediately to find a way out of this crisis. One of the main obstacles blocking the path to a comprehensive peace in the Middle East continues to be terrorism. It must be eliminated if the quest for a lasting peace and stability is to prevail. We advocate and stand ready to take part in enhanced cooperation on the bilateral, regional and international levels. Similarly, we expect all countries to do their share to this very end. It is with this understanding that we participated in the summit of Sharm el-Sheikh, convened to demonstrate the resolve of the international community to fight against terrorism on a united front. The eventual success of the peace process will also hinge on our collective ability to promote mutually beneficial economic cooperation and interdependence among the countries of the Middle East. As a Balkan country, we firmly believe that peace, justice and legitimacy in the Balkans remain vital for international peace and stability. We hold the view that any cooperative scheme in the Balkans should include all and exclude none. We were profoundly distressed for a long time that, during the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, lack of resolute international intervention at the very outset of the aggression and war led to bloodshed and atrocities unparalleled in recent history. The developments that took place prior to the Dayton peace Agreement proved once again that turning a blind eye to aggression only further aggravates crisis situations, causing untold human suffering and making it all the more difficult to find solutions. We are actively participating in the implementation of both the military and civilian aspects of the Dayton 6 General Assembly 15th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 30 September 1996 peace Agreement, and in the international efforts to reconstruct and rehabilitate Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are also conducting, together with the United States, a joint programme to train and equip the army of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to provide the Federation with the means to preserve its territorial integrity and to ensure military parity. We welcome the recently held elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We consider the realization of these elections, despite existing hardships, an important development for Bosnia and Herzegovina’s future. We hope that this development will lead to the creation of a positive political climate conducive to the attainment of lasting peace and stability and to the establishment of the constitutional, legislative, administrative and security structures of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We urge the international community to remain committed to the cause of Bosnia and Herzegovina; to remain vigilant as regards any ill intention against the independence and territorial integrity of that country; to ensure the return of refugees and displaced persons to their homes; to seek the arrest and extradition to The Hague of indicted war criminals; to prevent any negative outside interference that could potentially impede the process of peaceful and democratic reintegration; and to make available the assistance pledged for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of Bosnia. Turkey enjoys good-neighbourly relations with the Balkan countries. However, a number of issues between Turkey and Greece, mostly related to the Aegean, remain unresolved. We have always advocated that disputes should be settled by peaceful means and through dialogue and constructive negotiations. Consequently, we have made several appeals to Greece to seek an overall solution to all the existing issues that stand between us. However, this does not mean that we would accept any fait accompli. We still expect Greece to give these appeals the full consideration and positive response they deserve. We would like to hope that the new Greek Government, emerging from the recent elections, will adopt a more forthcoming stance in this regard. Unfortunately, the recent statement of the Greek Minister for Foreign Affairs, from this very rostrum on 27 September, does not bode well. Distortion and misrepresentation of the established facts, as well as unfounded and unjustified allegations, will not serve the creation of the climate of confidence and friendship we wish to see in our bilateral relations. In Cyprus, in the period that has elapsed since the last session of the General Assembly, regrettably no noticeable developments have taken place towards a comprehensive settlement. It has not been possible to resume the direct talks between the two sides under the mission of good offices of the United Nations Secretary-General, due to the negative stance of the Greek Cypriots. The Greek Cypriot side continues not to acknowledge that, in the past, the United Nations negotiating process and direct dialogue between the Turkish Cypriot and Greek Cypriot leaders not only served to establish the key parameters of a final settlement — which are already on the table — but also played an important role in defusing tensions between the two communities. It is all too evident that attempts to derail the United Nations negotiating process can only further complicate the already difficult road to a just solution. The recent regrettable events in and around the buffer zone and, especially the slaying of a Turkish Cypriot soldier, have proven once again what the lack of dialogue as well as inflammatory rhetoric and provocation can lead to. I hope that the Greek Cypriot side will not fail this time to draw the necessary conclusions. It is evident that the need to reduce tensions and build up confidence on the island makes the resumption of the direct talks, without any precondition, all the more urgent. The Turkish Cypriot side has already made public its readiness to this end. Turkey is committed to supporting the renewed efforts of the United Nations and expects the same constructive approach from Greece and the Greek Cypriot side. Peace and legitimacy are yet to be restored in another area of conflagration: the Caucasus. Indeed, this region continues to be wracked by various conflicts, that cause immense human anguish and threaten peace, security and stability. Turkey has close bonds with the countries of the region and attaches utmost importance to the preservation of regional peace and stability. The ongoing occupation of more than one fifth of the territory of Azerbaijan by Armenian forces continues to be a source of grave concern for Turkey. More than one million Azeris are still displaced in their own country and living in unacceptable conditions. They should not be permitted to endure another bitter winter in such conditions. Turkey has been striving to help bring about a peaceful and just settlement of the dispute between Azerbaijan and Armenia. We will continue to contribute to the efforts of the Minsk Group of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe with a view to establishing peace, security and stability in the region. We earnestly believe that all countries in the region have much to gain from the 7 General Assembly 15th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 30 September 1996 restoration of peace and legitimacy in the Caucasus. The attainment of a just peace will pave the way for a climate of cooperation to serve the common prosperity of all the countries of the region. The conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia, also continues to be a source of distress. We attach the utmost importance to the preservation of the territorial integrity, sovereignty and unity of Georgia and firmly believe that the international community should deploy all efforts to bring about a just solution to the conflict on that basis. To this end, we fully support the United Nations-sponsored peace talks between the parties and stand ready to contribute to those efforts. One of the important aspects of the economic development of the Caucasus and Central Asia is the exportation of their natural resources, for which Turkey is in a position to provide easy access to world markets. I can mention here Turkey’s proposed Baku-Ceyhan oil-pipeline project and natural-gas pipeline projects, which will serve the common interests and welfare of the entire region. Afghanistan is yet another conflict area where the international community has been unable to help bring about a just and lasting solution. Our close ties with that country are deeply rooted in history and we are troubled by the tragic consequences of the ongoing conflict. We are all too aware of the possibility of a spillover effect of the conflict in the region. We believe that this terrible conflict may be brought to an end and peace restored through direct negotiations between the fighting groups and the formation of a broad-based Government with the participation of all parties. Turkey is anxious to see, as soon as possible, the signing of a ceasefire agreement and the beginning of peace negotiations under the auspices of the United Nations. We will be pleased to host a meeting for such negotiations and will continue to support fully the efforts of the United Nations Special Mission to mediate a settlement respecting the territorial integrity, sovereignty and unity of Afghanistan. As an extension of its geography and against the backdrop of its history, Turkey finds itself at the multidirectional crossroads of several continents and different cultures. It acts as an important bridge between East and West, combining the values of the East with the ideals and institutions of the West in a unique synthesis. Strong historical, cultural and fraternal ties exist between Turkey and the countries of the Balkans, the Caucasus, Central Asia and the Middle East. We spare no effort in contributing to the resolution of conflicts and preventing new ones from erupting, strengthening regional and international cooperation and promoting tolerance and dialogue. This is the very core and essence of the basic principles that define our foreign policy. We shall continue to place our assets at the disposal and service of regional and global peace, stability and prosperity. In this context, I wish to underline the eminent role played by Turkey in such regional cooperation schemes as the Black Sea Economic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organization, as well as its active participation in cooperation in the Mediterranean basin. In conclusion, I wish to reiterate our sincere desire to see the fifty-first session of the General Assembly become an important milestone on the road to the third millennium. We have to gather our strength, pool our resources and ignite our imagination to build, collectively, a better world. National interests and objectives will surely remain at the core of our policies. However, on the eve of a new millennium, the time has certainly come to take a broader view and to replace rivalry with cooperation, intolerance with tolerance and confrontation with dialogue and conciliation. We should at all costs avoid faits accomplis and double standards in international relations. A revitalized and reinvigorated United Nations entering its second half-century can make a significant contribution to assisting us all to attain our highest goals and aspirations. Let us not forget, however, that the task of shaping a better future is entirely in our hands, for we are the United Nations.﻿Allow me at the outset to warmly congratulate the President on his election to his post at the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I am deeply honoured to speak from this rostrum for the first time, and would like to take this opportunity to thank all our friends in the world community for the valuable assistance given to us in the construction of a new, democratic Georgia. In recent years, Georgia has undergone every possible trial in the transition from the old and obsolete to the new and progressive. Overcoming the totalitarian past has been very painful, demanding many sacrifices. In conditions of post-communist chaos, ongoing ethno- political conflicts and a precipitous decline in the economy, Georgia has managed, with the help of the international community, to stabilize the situation. Over the past two years, democratic institutions have been established, economic stability has been achieved, a national currency has been introduced, the process of privatization is being completed and favourable conditions for foreign investment are being created. The presidential and parliamentary elections held last year confirmed the strong determination of the Georgian people to continue on the path of democratic development. All this has been done in order to further the gradual integration of Georgia, and indeed the whole of Transcaucasia, into the international economic system. Georgia has had to overcome a number of obstacles on this course, both subjective and objective in nature. Today I would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to the phenomenon that has become the main obstacle in Georgia’s path to recovery: aggressive separatism, which can completely nullify the beginnings of peace and stability not only in Georgia, but in the entire region. Aggressive separatism is not a new phenomenon, but it has only recently come to the attention of the world 15 community, due to its global nature and its destructive impact on international security. I can say with certainty that the world community has no right to take the position of an outside observer on this question, because countries and entire regions are subjected to separatism, regardless of their geographic location and level of development. Despite differences in the underlying reasons for the emergence of separatist movements, in their nature and in their scale they have one thing in common: they establish regimes on the ideological basis of terrorism under the banner of “the self-determination of suppressed people”. We are certain that everyone present in this Hall considers the principle of self-determination for nations and peoples one of the most important basic principles of international law. Contemporary international law has established a clear framework for the implementation of this principle. Yet it is unacceptable for the principle of self-determination to be exploited by national minorities or small nations that have historically constituted a single society with other nations, within the framework of sovereign States that today are Members of the United Nations. There is good reason for us to have singled out the problem of aggressive separatism, as we consider it to be the main threat to international peace and security at this stage. Georgia has made enormous efforts to introduce the notion of aggressive separatism into the agenda of the world. Aggressive separatism uses “ethnic cleansing” as the main tool of vengeance against other nations and ethnic groups. Here I must bring up the example of Abkhazia: 300,000 peaceful Georgian citizens have been expelled from the territory of Abkhazia. Thousands more have been shot, burned, hanged or tortured to death. Furthermore, the persecution of the Georgian population on the basis of ethnic origin was raised by the separatist regime to the level of state policy. This is a most serious crime against humanity. Analogous manifestations of aggressive separatism are taking place in other parts of the world. Consequently, the stream of refugees increases constantly, and this process has acquired the form of a powerful new global factor fraught with unpredictable social and economic consequences. We believe we need more fully developed measures in order to oppose it effectively. What can we do about this? As a rule, the response of the world community to separatism as a phenomenon is nearly always late and consequently inadequate to existing conditions. The first resolution of the Security Council on the conflict in Abkhazia was adopted on 9 July 1993; the most recent, on 12 July 1996. Comparing them, we can see that it took three years to call something by its proper name: to call an aggressor an aggressor, a criminal a criminal and a victim a victim. It is obvious that we need a doctrine to contain aggressive separatism. This should include a number of measures directed at revealing the underlying causes and at preventing and overcoming any manifestation of extremist separatist tendencies. We consider it necessary, first, to define the phenomenon of separatism in terms of international law and, to that end, to establish a corresponding juridical and legal basis, namely, a well-defined system to identify and categorize aggressive separatism in international legal documents. Secondly, it is necessary to introduce and enforce economic measures. One might respond that the practical implementation of economic sanctions already exists. However, these should be binding in nature and their enforcement fall under the strict control of the international community; moreover, there must be follow- up implementation of sanctions against violators, if necessary. At the same time, in order to eliminate economic incentives for armed hostilities, we should provide economic assistance and other means of support to regions where separatist tendencies are growing in strength. Thirdly, we must consider measures of a military- political character, such as the imposition of arms embargoes against those regions where separatism takes on aggressive forms. Fourthly, those who have committed these crimes against humanity must be fully aware that they cannot avoid severe punishment and that, sooner or later, they will have to stand before an international tribunal. It is clear that international terrorism and aggressive separatism are interconnected and that we must combine our efforts in the struggle against both. The efforts of the countries of the Group of 8 aimed at the elimination of international terrorism give us cause for hope. The Government of Georgia fully supports the 16 recent initiative of the President of Egypt to establish a new specialized international organization dedicated to the struggle against these evils. We must also work as speedily as possible on the creation of a stable system of regional security, without which the process of aggressive separatism that has contributed to the political and economic disintegration of traditional regional structures of mutually beneficial cooperation and ethno-cultural exchanges will only grow, hastening the division of regions into hostile microsystems under the permanent influence of neighbouring regional Powers. Once again, let us focus concretely on the prospects for a peaceful settlement of the Abkhaz problem. The current negotiations continue under the auspices of the United Nations and through the mediation of the Russian Federation. The “Friends of Georgia” group of countries is also making concerted efforts. The settlement of the conflict has thus taken on an international scale. We have repeatedly declared Georgia’s position on the settlement of this conflict and the determination of Abkhazia’s status. First, it is necessary and very possible to settle the conflict through a peaceful process of negotiation. Through the new Constitution of Georgia, adopted last year, the question of the state territorial structure of our country was deliberately left open. At the same time, proposals were elaborated according to which Abkhazia would be granted autonomy in accordance with the highest possible international standards. Just over a month ago, the President of Georgia made a statement in which he once again set forth his suggestions regarding the settlement of the conflict in the Caucasus, including his assertion to the authorities in Sukhumi of his readiness to meet immediately for serious discussions. Unfortunately, these efforts have borne no fruit. The responsibility for that lies with the separatists. It has proven hitherto impossible to achieve progress towards a political settlement. Moreover, the separatist regime, sensing its impunity, has undertaken a new series of provocations, attempting to organize so-called parliamentary elections on the same territory which was ethnically cleansed and on which less than one-fifth of the native population presently resides. The regime has cynically ignored the mediation efforts of the Russian Federation, the United Nations and the world community, numerous resolutions of the Security Council and the decisions of various forums. The growing concern on this point is also understandable. Has not the perfunctory evaluation of acts of “ethnic cleansing” and genocide in Abkhazia, by accident or a design, strengthened the confidence of the separatists that they will get away with their crimes and even legitimize the status quo? In the recent past, Transcaucasia acted as a boundary between two opposing systems, two military-political blocs separated by the iron curtain and implacable ideologies. These confrontational orientations did not allow the innate human and natural resources of the region to be fully exploited, relegating it to a secondary role on the periphery of the world stage. As a consequence of historic changes that occurred before our very eyes, we believe that the time has come seriously to reappraise the role of our region. Our final aim is to turn it into the very opposite of what it once was. The Caucasus can become and is already becoming a region of multilateral cooperation, not only between the States geographically located within it. The prospects for creating a transportation corridor across our region are gradually becoming reality. The States of Central Asia, the Black Sea basin and Western and Eastern Europe are directly involved in the process of its creation. There has thus been a logical growth in the international community’s interest in the fate of the Caucasus. The Caucasus today is a complicated interlacing of political economic and financial contradictions and interests. Therefore, it is necessary to respond appropriately to these emerging circumstances. Otherwise, we run the risk of creating a new, powerful and large- scale breeding ground for international tensions. While pondering the creation of a new global and, in particular, European infrastructure of stability, we have in mind very specific elements that will create a single and indivisible unit. In this context, the initiative of President Shevardnadze on a peaceful Caucasus, proposed in the spring of 1996, can serve as the basis for the creation of a regional model that could, in its own right, become a major component in a general and comprehensive model of security for Europe in the next century. The ideas set forth in this initiative were discussed and approved in principle at the summit between the Presidents of the Russian Federation, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, and the leaders of the northern Caucasus Republics within the Russian Federation in June 1996. These proposals are aimed not only at the peaceful settlement of conflicts currently besetting the Caucasus, but also at post-conflict settlement, insuring the security 17 and multi-level development of the region. They advocate the application of generally recognized, fundamental principles of international law, the observance of which would guarantee peace and stability in the region. I am not engaging in wishful thinking. The road to achieving all this will, of course, not be easy, but I am confident that the States of the region possess sufficient determination and political will, together with the active participation of the international community, to make the only correct decision and, like one of Brecht’s characters, break out of the “Caucasian Chalk Circle”. I would like to share some of my concerns on the prospects for new United Nations activities. The impending reforms, supported by practically all Member States, testify to a qualitatively new stage in the development of international relations. At the same time, the need for reforms places great responsibility on us. We have no right to take hasty decisions that might result in unforeseen consequences. On the other hand, excessive dilatoriness could also harm our cause. Given the new realities in international relations, it is clear that these changes should be reflected in the body of the United Nations that is entrusted with the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. ln order to enable the Security Council to respond adequately to contemporary challenges, new geopolitical realities should be reflected in its structure. I refer to the timely question of increasing the number of permanent and non-permanent members of the Council. We are fully convinced that increasing the number of members would expand the geopolitical base of the Security Council, which in turn would make it more effective and representative. In considering in this context the candidacy of Germany and Japan for possible permanent membership, we are guided by the hope that we would finally and irrevocably have an opportunity to overcome the psychological consequences of the Second World War and the cold war. In 1992 our President argued, from this rostrum, for the need to expand the membership of the Security Council by including Germany and Japan; and Georgia has repeatedly advocated this since. Careful consideration should be given to proposals put forward by Italy and other Member States with regard to non-permanent membership of the Security Council. However, the Security Council should remain a comparatively small body, which makes it more dynamic. Most importantly, in considering an increase in Council membership, due attention should be paid primarily to the degree of participation of Member States in the maintenance of international peace and security. The changes should also touch upon the practical side of Council activities, especially with regard to conflict resolution. The criteria that guide the Security Council in the use of its discretionary rights, provided for in Chapters VI, VII and VIII of the Charter, should be more clearly formulated and universally applied. In order to improve the management of peacekeeping operations, the Secretary-General’s Special Envoy should be responsible for coordinating the implementation of peacekeeping operations, with the direct participation of regional organizations. We should also note that a significant number of conflicts throughout the world do not fall within the category of threats to international peace and security under Chapter VII of the Charter, although they are characterized by gross and massive human rights violations and are considered to be crimes against humanity. Thus, in most cases, the initiators and executors of these crimes, which include “ethnic cleansing” and genocide, feel that they enjoy impunity because of the inability of the international community to take legal action. Consequently, we should consider the establishment of a permanent United Nations special international observer institution, which would investigate the facts pertaining to such crimes. Georgia, having undergone the tragedy of conflict in Abkhazia, and having experienced “ethnic cleansing” and genocide in its own population, is keenly interested in the rapid establishment and effective functioning of an international criminal court. Such a body should become an effective tool for implementing the law on behalf of the international community. We are inspired by the fact that the International Law Commission has already approved the text for a list of crimes against peace and humanity. We are also happy that the United Nations has already taken steps in laying the foundation for developing peacekeeping contingents of stand-by forces. Georgia has already declared its readiness for active participation in the establishment of stand-by forces. We believe, however, that the United Nations should not take half measures, as the use of stand-by forces cannot completely resolve problems of effective and timely 18 reaction to conflict situations arising in different parts of the world. In this connection, we are convinced that we should finally implement the idea of establishing a United Nations rapid deployment force to carry out the tasks prescribed by the Security Council to restrain the escalation of conflicts and deploy the main peacemaking contingents of the United Nations. In conclusion, we would like to see the world community as a union of free nations that enrich each other spiritually, economically and culturally. Mutual efforts in this direction will inevitably lead to the establishment of a permanent, cooperative peace in a world free of wars and ethnic conflicts. The General Assembly offers a unique opportunity to elaborate a uniform and coordinated approach to the real, global problems of humanity. This is our chance to reach global consensus, and we should take full advantage of it. I thank the Assembly for its attention, and express my hope that our pain and our hopes will be taken into account by the entire international community.  ﻿This session is being held amid a very sensitive and delicate international situation which is generally characterized by political and socio-economic concerns. This is particularly evident all over the developing world, which is overpopulated and simultaneously overburdened with problems of backwardness and the challenges of development. The hopes that were raised with the end of the cold war, heralding the advent of a new era in which cooperation and détente would prevail, soon were shattered in the midst of these problems and these concerns. We are currently facing conflicting phenomena, where elements of complementarity and integration coincide with tendencies towards division and disunity. The technology and communications revolution runs parallel to the eruption of national conflicts and ethnic animosities. Ambitions of leadership overlap practices of hegemony. This has created a serious conceptual confusion which the international order, in its current form, cannot address in an effective or deterring manner. Indeed, this order, due to its obvious double standards, might have contributed to the intensification of the era’s negative aspects at the expense of its positive aspects and gains. Certainly, the logic of evolution and the rules of transformation indicate that the stages of change carry within them a potential risk as well as elements of rivalry, unless an objective and conducive environment exists, accompanied by a forward-looking vision and a set of highly advanced values that are crystallized through coordinated and concerted efforts. This is precisely what did not happen. The dichotomy between the North and the South is widening. The lack of common understanding among world cultures and civilizations is still present. This has caused discord in world thinking and created mutual suspicions that not only pose an overwhelming threat, jeopardizing the march of political progress and the activities of economic development as well as the fabric of social development, but also have raised questions as to whether the benefits of science and technology lead to world security and stability, or quite the opposite. In connection with contemporary international politics, it is really most alarming that attempts are being made to marginalize the United Nations at a time when the world is in need of further understanding, better coordination and accelerated interdependence. It would have been more logical to call for the strengthening of this Organization, so that it could perform its role in achieving these objectives in a truly democratic manner, with the participation of all the countries of the world with their diverse cultures, societies, sizes, orientations and achievements. This is particularly true since the United Nations Charter, in our view — a view shared by many others — still represents a major instrument governing international life, and since any international order, be it old or new, must be based on a solid foundation that respects rights, determines obligations and opens the door to an era of interaction among societies on the basis of acceptance and understanding, not imposition or oppression. We are definitely aware that the challenges of tomorrow are different from those of yesterday. We are also aware that the United Nations, in its current culture, may not be able, one way or another, to deal with future challenges. However, this must be a subject for discussion to build consensus among us, not a matter to be determined by a few or to be decided unilaterally. For these reasons, it is imperative to strive collectively to build a common political will to strengthen the United Nations, to enhance its effectiveness and to restore its credibility in order to maintain world stability and security. The annals of this Organization abound with historical achievements and it continues to make progress in dealing with the problems of our world. An in-depth reading of the Secretary-General’s reports on political, 17 economic and social situations in the world reassures us of this role and we urge that it be upheld, because it addresses the present and explores the prospects for the future through global understanding. The Secretary-General’s role in developing a rational basis for worldwide development activities has succeeded in focusing attention on the issues of our times through a series of conferences held over the past five years on the environment, human rights, population, social development, women and human settlements. These represent important reference points for global action based on international consensus in dealing with problems that were once marginal but are today substantial. We call on the Secretary-General to pursue this approach, which allows the United Nations to stand out in a distinctive and positive way in a world of growing negativity. A strengthened role, reform and enhanced efficiency are our common objectives for the United Nations. The historic Declaration issued last year by the Heads of State and Government on the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations constitutes a cornerstone for the future work of the Organization. The Declaration contained a clear conceptual framework for global action on the basis of the priorities upon which we all agreed: peace based on the principles and provisions of the Charter and supported by an effective regime of collective security; development in all its aspects in the social and economic fields; sovereign equality among States and respect for peoples’ rights; and justice in addressing the various issues on the international agenda. Egypt deems it necessary to translate these noble principles into clear programmes of action that take into consideration the interests of all without discrimination. When we met here last year to celebrate the United Nations fiftieth anniversary, we were dismayed by the events in the Great Lakes region in Africa, where horrendous massacres had left a painful humanitarian legacy. We were disturbed by the events in Bosnia, where United Nations “safe areas” had been overrun and innocent people had lost their lives in despicable ethnic strife. However, we were optimistic at that time about developments in the Middle East. The Interim Agreement had been signed between President Yasser Arafat and the late Prime Minister of Israel, Yitzhak Rabin, and described as an important step on the path to finding a solution to the question of Palestine. Has the situation changed or evolved for the better? Let us look into last year’s developments in that region. In recent months, the Middle East has undergone a crisis that has almost stifled the peace process, a crisis resulting from the reluctance of the Israeli Government to act in keeping with the agreed fundamentals of peace. This position has threatened a return to the language, concepts, policies and even practices that were on the eve of extinction in the region. Thus, action on all peace tracks was deadlocked and the peace process stagnated. This prompted Egypt, which initiated that process and believes in a just and balanced Arab-Israeli peace, to intensify efforts to rectify the situation and consolidate the fundamentals of this process, first among which is the “land for peace” principle. In this context, I would like to put forward the Arab position as contained in the final communiqué of the summit held in Cairo last June. The attending Arab leaders unanimously expressed their keen interest in the continuation of the process of making a just and comprehensive peace an Arab strategic option under international legality. This Arab position requires a corresponding commitment, seriously and unequivocally undertaken by Israel, to abide by the principles agreed upon at the Madrid Conference, particularly the “land for peace” principle and the assurances provided to the parties. The Arab leaders stressed that any breach by Israel of these principles or of the bases in which the peace process is anchored; any reneging on the commitments, undertakings or agreements made in the framework of this process; or any procrastination in their implementation would set back the peace process, with all the risks and repercussions involved. This could replunge the region into an atmosphere of tension and would force all Arab countries to reconsider the steps taken vis-à-vis Israel within the framework of the peace process. In such a case, the Israeli Government alone would assume full responsibility. The Arab leaders emphasized that there would be no recognition or acceptance of any situation resulting from Israeli settlement activity in the occupied Arab territories, since the settlements are considered an illegal measure that entails no rights and establishes no obligations. The establishment of settlements and the bringing in of settlers violate international law and the Madrid framework and impede the peace process, which requires Israel to halt all settlement activities in the occupied territories. The Arab leaders also emphasized that a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East can be achieved only through a resolution of the questions of Al-Quds and the Palestinian refugees on the basis of their rights of return and to compensation, in accordance with international legality and United Nations resolutions. 18 A short while ago, the new Israeli Prime Minister met with the Palestinian President. Undoubtedly, their meeting represents progress towards their mutual recognition as partners on an equal footing in the Palestinian-Israeli peace process. In theory, the peace process should proceed to implement the commitments made under the Oslo Accords in accordance with the agreed timetable, but that has not yet happened. We are interested not in handshakes or wide smiles for photo opportunities, but rather in substantive developments. Thus, what is required and what we should all strive for is the implementation of commitments, serious negotiation and time well spent. We call upon the entire world to follow up the matter with us with full vigilance and to allow neither retrogression nor the manipulation of very sensitive and serious matters, namely, the establishment of a permanent contractual peace between Palestine and Israel that fulfils the national aspirations of the Palestinian people and culminates in their exercise of their right to self- determination under international supervision and the establishment of a Palestinian State. This peace must also achieve security for Israel and all parties on an equal footing. Israel is called upon to desist from its settlement policy, including the expansion of settlements, and to end its policies of closing territories and besieging the Palestinian people. It is called upon to honour its commitments, redeploy its troops outside Hebron and resume without further delay the final status negotiations. Israel is also called upon to put an end to its practices in Al-Quds, a city where any rights that could be claimed by Israel are outweighed by Arab rights, which are more ancient, legitimate and authentic than any Israeli claim to the city. On the Syrian track, I can say in all honesty and with full confidence that Syria is ready to resume the negotiations suspended last February at Israel’s request. The negotiations should resume at the point at which they stopped, which is fair, and in accordance with the Madrid framework and the principle of “land for peace“, which is right. From this rostrum, Egypt calls for the resumption of these negotiations. Israel must refrain from pursuing policies and formulations that may be interpreted as squandering years of negotiations and that constitute a regression from principles that have become an integral part of the rules for peaceful work in the region and are backed by international legality and supported by broad international consensus. On the Lebanese track, we call for the implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978) and Israel’s full withdrawal from Lebanon, to which Israeli officials have repeatedly stated they have no territorial claim. Peace in the Middle East will not be comprehensive or lasting until a strict regime for regional security is established, based on arrangements that provide equal security for all parties with minimum levels of armament. The region must be totally free from all weapons of mass destruction — nuclear, chemical and biological — and their delivery systems. Peace and security cannot survive in the presence of any instability in the balance of power or serious discrepancy in the rights and obligations of the countries of the region. Furthermore, we are closely watching the huge Israeli arsenal, which includes weapons of mass destruction, missiles and anti-missile weapons. We wonder about the rationale behind it. We believe that it has, indeed, led to a reaction by a number of countries in the region to this serious escalation, at a time when we are all talking of peace. Given this fact — or, rather, to avoid its consequences — Egypt proposes the initiation of effective negotiations to establish a zone free from all weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems. President Hosni Mubarak has been making such a proposal since April 1990. Egypt calls upon the permanent members of the Security Council and the depositary States of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which sponsored and adopted the resolution on the Middle East during the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to take specific steps to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East in accordance with the Egyptian initiative, which has enjoyed the consensus of all the States concerned since 1980. While Egypt stresses the fact that arms control and regional security constitute one of the pillars of peace and stability in the Middle East, it also believes that economic and regional cooperation under a just peace constitutes another such pillar. Regional cooperation is inseparable from the establishment of peace: peace is its essence and 19 its framework. Two sessions of the Middle East-North Africa Economic Summit have been held, in Casablanca and in Amman, the capital of Jordan. Both were held in an atmosphere of optimism that the peace process would succeed. Indeed, there have been some successes, such as the signing of the interim agreement between Israel and Palestine, and the holding of direct negotiations between Syria and Israel. They took place against the background of a receding settlement policy and continuous discussion about peace and its objectives. However, today we see the exact opposite. This state of affairs threatens peace, its framework and all that is associated with it, including regional cooperation, which can prosper only in an atmosphere of peace and hope for the future. We therefore call upon Israel to return to the fundamental framework of peace in accordance with the agreements concluded, the terms of reference established and the principles approved. While Egypt is in favour of holding the third Economic Summit as scheduled — like others, we have a great deal to contribute in the fields of economic reform, investment and development — we call upon the sponsors of the peace process, especially the United States, to strive to create the conditions that could lead to the successful convening of the Summit. That can be achieved only by making serious endeavours on all peace tracks, in terms of both negotiation and implementation. We are making this declaration before the entire international community, so that every party will discharge its responsibilities and honour its commitments. If they do not, the balance will be disturbed and the issue will become meaningless. Peace in the Middle East is contingent upon justice, balance and honesty in negotiating and addressing the needs of peoples. From this stems the open Egyptian diplomacy that regards the current situation as a matter of utmost seriousness. We once again reiterate that Egypt rejects any measure that results in an unbalanced peace that satisfies the interests of one party at the expense of another. The peace that we aspire to is a balanced Arab-Israeli peace that reciprocates right for right, security for security, and commitment for commitment. A just and comprehensive peace is the cornerstone of stability in the Middle East. Despite the unpropitious attitude of the new Israeli Government to the peace process, right alone will eventually prevail. Peace will impose itself, propelled by the desire of the peoples of the region, including the people of Israel, to live in genuine peace, cooperation and stability. Egypt, whose people contributed to laying the foundations of human civilization, has for centuries accepted and continues to accept the imperatives of geography and history, which give Egypt special responsibilities for the affairs of our region and beyond. Egypt takes the initiative for peace, seeks prosperity, prompts enlightenment and is steadfastly involved in advancing the march of progress. Egypt therefore empathizes with the agony of the region and the repercussions of developments there. While peace in the Middle East is at a crucial stage, the Gulf region, which is part of the Middle East, is also undergoing a number of unfavourable developments. The stability of the Gulf region is, for more than one reason, linked to the ultimate interests of Egypt and its security. In particular, it is an area endowed with a potential and with characteristics that make its stability and security a matter of significance to all Powers concerned with international peace and security. The result of our review of the succession of events in this area leads us to several conclusions. First, strict compliance with Security Council resolutions on Iraq, without fail or divergences, is the only way to guarantee the end of the crisis that erupted in August 1990. Secondly, the use of force cannot restore rights or rectify wrongs. Thus, the rights of the Iraqi people, the maintenance of its unity and respect for the rights and well-being of Iraqis, whether Arabs or Kurds, will remain the major concern of all of us. We are equally concerned with safeguarding the rights of the people of Kuwait and the return of detainees and property. Thirdly, the memorandum of understanding on the oil-for-food resolution, which was reached after arduous negotiations, must be put into effect without any further delay to alleviate the suffering of our brothers, the Iraqi people. Fourthly, compromising territorial integrity and the unity of Iraq is not only a breach of international law but will open the door to major repercussions undermining regional stability and threatening the interests of neighbouring countries. Fifthly, the withdrawal of Iran from the three islands of the United Arab Emirates — Abu Musa, Tunb as Sughra and Tunb al Kubra — is a sine qua non condition for defusing another hotbed of tension. The Arab call to Iran to settle amicably any territorial claims to those islands is still valid. 20 Sixthly, the policy of intervention and the attempts to manipulate ethnic and religious minorities to destabilize other neighbouring countries cannot help to establish stability in the Gulf region or the wider region of the Middle East, or help ensure the interests of any of the parties concerned, in addition to its being a flagrant violation of the rules of international conduct. Before leaving the issue of the Middle East, I would like to refer to the dispute between Libya and some Western countries, a dispute to which we attach particular importance because of its repercussions for the region as well as the damage and suffering it inflicts on our brothers, the people of Libya, on the economies of the neighbouring countries and on the stability of the region in general. In view of our keen interest in averting an escalation of the problem and in expediting the attainment of an early settlement, we support the efforts and initiatives made by the League of Arab States, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Non-Aligned Movement, and call for a positive response to those efforts and initiatives. Moving from the Middle East to Africa, we find stories of success and of failure — pictures both bleak and bright. While our sister country Rwanda has restored its stability and launched its reconstruction and development, its neighbour, our sister Burundi, is an example of the real turmoil which is affecting the entire Great Lakes region. Last year we expressed our extreme dismay at the situation in this important region; today we reiterate this, and stress the need for the Security Council to discharge its responsibilities to avert the recurrence of Rwanda’s tragedy in Burundi. There is, however, a positive element that we hope will not be lost in the disappointment over the deteriorating situation in Africa: the efforts of the OAU, which have started to take shape within an institutional framework that we hope will be successful. This was embodied in the establishment of the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution, which will play a role in resolving the problems of the continent. The countries and the leaders of the Great Lakes region, particularly former President Nyerere, have played a laudable collective role in reconciliation, dealing with the question of refugees and the rampant ethnic rivalries in the region. Serious efforts were also made by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to settle the Liberian problem, particularly by Nigeria, which has made continuing efforts during its current chairmanship of that subregional group. We commend the efforts made by Ghana during its chairmanship of ECOWAS over the past two years. We call on the international community, and the United Nations in particular, to support all of these efforts and to provide the necessary means for their success. This applies also to the numerous efforts made to achieve national reconciliation in Somalia, the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol in Angola and the settlement plan in Western Sahara. We hope that the parties concerned will benefit from these historic opportunities, so that stability will prevail in Africa and so that international support for these efforts will continue, particularly in terms of post-conflict rehabilitation and socio-economic reconstruction. In this context, I should like to draw attention to the gravity of the continued deterioration of the socio- economic situation in the African continent, which includes two-thirds of the world’s least-developed countries; one-third of its population is facing starvation. Despite this fact, the countries of the continent are tenaciously striving towards economic reform, structural adjustment, strengthening regional cooperation among themselves and dealing with the social situation in the continent in accordance with the Declaration issued in Cairo in March 1995. These efforts are still faltering as a result of diminishing international support and a lack of necessary financial resources. Thus we support the United Nations System-Wide Special Initiative for Africa presented last March by the Secretary-General based upon comprehensive mobilization of resources and full participation of international institutions. Hence, we call upon donor countries and upon the international community to take the necessary measures to deal with the critical economic situation in Africa, particularly the external debt problem, by providing the necessary resources and creating an environment that will enable the continent to join the march of development and to be able to address its socio-economic problems, which represent one of the root causes of political tension and instability there. The critical economic situation in Africa leads us to voice some of the concerns of Egypt and the developing countries vis-à-vis the world’s economy. Suffice it here to make a reference to the importance of the faithful implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements and the necessity to address the negative impact on the net food importing countries. We look forward to the success of the first ministerial conference of the World Trade Organization (WTO), to be held in Singapore. We would 21 like to highlight the importance of focusing on the implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements without attempting to raise new issues such as those pertaining to investment and the linkage between international trade, on the one hand, and labour and environment, on the other. Any proposed additional issues should be subject to in- depth study. We reiterate the leading and important role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in this regard prior to bringing such issues to the WTO for consideration. Turning to Bosnia, there is hope of implementing the Dayton agreement to put an end to the appalling tragedy caused by “ethnic cleansing” and racist narrow-mindedness. The agreement will be implemented under international protection, represented by the Implementation Force (IFOR), to which Egypt and numerous other countries contribute. Despite all the circumstances associated with the election process, its results are still a source of optimism in the possible victory of the forces of moderation so that Bosnia can become a multi-ethnic State where Serbs, Muslims and Croats live together in peace. Egypt welcomes the election of President Izetbejovic as President of the tripartite Presidential Council. In this respect we would like to stress a number of points which we think can guarantee the stability of the situation and ensure full compliance with the provisions of the Dayton agreement. First, it is important to consolidate the territorial integrity of Bosnia, to reject vehemently and strictly any attempts at partition and to respect the democratic process and the results of elections. Secondly, it is necessary to assist the State of Bosnia in completing the necessary components of building its national army and to provide it with the equipment it needs to deter any external threat or face a new collapse of the internal situation after IFOR withdraws. Thirdly, it is necessary to provide the economic support Bosnia needs to rebuild and rehabilitate the country, since this will represent support for the foundations of coexistence and peace among its three ethnic groups. Fourthly, it is essential to punish the war criminals. Otherwise, talking about human rights in the world will be futile and will be considered as an entrenchment of double standards. The phenomenon of terrorism has become exacerbated and now knows no boundaries. We must all implement the Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism, which was adopted at the forty-ninth session. Terrorists must find no refuge in any civilized country. We must all cooperate in uprooting all sources of terrorism. We must construct a well-defined legal system that ensures the pursuit of those who are responsible for terrorism, and their prosecution and extradition to stand trial for the crimes they have perpetrated, crimes that terrorize peaceful people and threaten international stability. We must define clear criteria and rules that guarantee that the right of political asylum will not be extended to the undeserving, so that that right will not become a licence encouraging terrorists and protecting them from prosecution and punishment. Terrorism is an international phenomenon that is not linked to a particular geographic region or to a particular civilization, culture or religion. We have witnessed the evidence, ranging from the Far East to the Middle East, to Europe, and to America. Terrorism has even come close to this very building. The entire international community must harness the necessary resources to confront this vicious aggressive phenomenon, to eradicate its sources and to isolate whoever provides it with assistance and encouragement. In this respect, I call on the United Nations and the civilized peoples of the world to respond swiftly to the call of President Hosni Mubarak to hold an international conference to deal with the criminal phenomenon of terrorism and, as a contribution to peace and stability in the world at large — to mobilize joint international efforts to combat it. I began my statement with our perception of the role of this Organization. I conclude it by paying tribute and expressing my appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose expertise and insight have contributed, during his current tenure, to the identification of problems and challenges facing the international community and this Organization. He has drawn up the agenda on items under consideration as well as approaches for dealing with them. The implementation of this agenda is contingent upon the will and the interest of the Member States. As it reiterates its confidence in the Secretary- General, a confidence shared by members of two of the most prominent regional organizations — the Arab League and the Organization of African Unity — Egypt attaches high priority to seeing him preside over the United Nations Secretariat for a second term, during which he will have the chance to lead the Secretariat and to take part in implementing the programmes he devised, the reform process he designed and the solutions he initiated to the problems facing the Organization, problems that surface in an international arena witnessing the birth of a new order whose features are not yet defined, problems that occur as the United Nations passes 22 through a historic juncture, on the threshold of a new century and a new millennium. ﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate Mr. Ismail Razali on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, which is being held at a particularly difficult juncture. I am, however, persuaded that his personal attributes as well as his proven diplomatic experience will ensure the success that is expected from this Assembly. Allow me to express to His Excellency Mr. Freitas do Amaral my congratulations on the outstanding commitment he demonstrated during his term in office. Our best wishes for the future go to him as he resumes his work as an educator and conducts research for peace and progress for all peoples. Allow me also to express my warm appreciation to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, for the dynamic and visionary manner in which he conducted the business of our Organization during a time of great change in the international arena. At this time the United Nations is more and more frequently called upon to rise to new challenges and is compelled to face tests that are not always peaceful. For this difficult mission the Republic of Angola will continue to render its modest contribution for the successful accomplishment of his mandate. At the threshold of the new century of the third millennium we are increasingly faced with new and greater challenges, the solutions to which require joint and concerted actions by all States, irrespective of their size, economic potential or military might. In this context, countries that have Portuguese as an official language — Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, Mozambique, Portugal and Sao Tome and Principe — have recently decided to establish a community of Portuguese-speaking countries in order better to serve the interests of their peoples. We would like to thank the Government and people of Portugal for fostering a cordial climate for this community of Portuguese-speaking countries. It is essential, therefore, that a broad and in-depth reform programme be adopted for multilateral institutions, which would make a decisive contribution towards the democratization of international relations on the basis of the primacy of law, the safeguarding of the sovereign equality of States and reciprocity in the comity of nations. It is along these lines that we approach with all seriousness the restructuring of the United Nations and its system. Our goal is to optimize the functioning of bodies that coordinate the work of maintaining international peace and security and fostering social and economic development. Although innumerable international conferences held by the United Nations in recent years validate this concern, a great deal remains to be accomplished. We must go from words of intention to deeds. In this context, we believe that the current session of the General Assembly must approach with daring and political resolve all current issues of common concern, including those in the areas of international peacekeeping and security and the healing of the economic and social crisis that afflicts the developing world. Last year our Organization celebrated its fiftieth anniversary, and there was unanimous recognition by all mankind of its role as the most important forum for concerted action among nations. Although the restructuring of the United Nations has always been an 19 issue of concern, it is now even more essential if we are to rise to the challenges of the twenty-first century. In this connection, I would like to avail myself of this opportunity first of all to congratulate the Open-ended High-level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System for the positive achievements we have witnessed. Nevertheless, there is still a long road ahead before we achieve our final objectives and make it possible for our Organization to play its true role. As a matter of fact, we are quite concerned by the current financial crisis, which is affecting the proper operation of our Organization and even threatening its very survival. In this context, we support proposals that suggest practical action for the correction of the financial situation, such as the revision of the scale of assessments, the downsizing of the Secretariat and some of its bodies, with a view towards rendering them more efficient, less bureaucratic and less burdensome. By way of example, allow me to point out that several developmental assistance projects or humanitarian aid programmes are entrusted to foreign officials while they could perfectly well be carried out by local officials with similar qualifications, which could cut down the implementation costs to less than one third. This is only one example among the many we could cite that could go far towards assisting with the financial healing of the Organization. The measures we have alluded to are feasible and could bring about greater benefits and substantially improve the functioning of the Organization and its specialized agencies. As regards the Security Council, my Government has always supported its restructuring in order to strengthen its role and effectiveness and ensure greater transparency in the decision-making process and in the implementation of its resolutions. Our position therefore is identical to the one adopted by the Organization of African Unity. It would expand the Security Council and provide for fair and equal representation by permanent and non-permanent members, with equal rights and duties. Africa’s claim to at least two permanent seats on the Security Council is nothing but its proper and due right. We likewise support the right of other regions to representation on the Council, with the status of permanent members. Regarding the modes of operation of the Security Council, we believe that the areas concerned will find their appropriate modus operandi. In several regions of our planet, there are still decades-old conflicts, and new sources of tension are breaking out in areas that previously enjoyed a certain peace and stability. This offsets the most optimistic expectations of our peoples, who had hoped that the world would be on the threshold of a new era of peace in this post-cold-war period, paving the way for cooperation and development. It is therefore with great apprehension that we note a proliferation of regional conflicts, social and economic collapse in some of our countries, environmental decay, and the coming of new scourges such as transnational crime, drug trafficking, a rising wave of criminality, racial disturbances, xenophobia, and religious and cultural intolerance. It is in the face of this bleak picture that we come together for the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, compelling us to pause in deep introspection and firm resolve to handle this time bomb. In this context, the Republic of Angola urges all Member States to do their very best in the search for ways and means to achieve this. One of the main tools available to us is preventive diplomacy and the political resolve of all those who are in a position to make a decisive contribution to international peace and security. In the Middle East, recent events are showing dangerous trends, jeopardizing the Washington agreement on the autonomy of the Palestinian people and the first steps towards the joint peaceful settlement of peace issues in that region, all of which are matters of the greatest concern to the Republic of Angola. The Republic of Angola reiterates the stand adopted on the Middle East by African Heads of State or Government at the thirty-second summit meeting of the Organization of African Unity, in Yaoundé, and appeals to the parties for strict compliance with their commitments, because nothing can resist the resolve of a people to be free. As stated by a great leader of our century, Ho Chi Minh, “Nothing is more precious than freedom and independence”. We are likewise concerned at the grievous situation in East Timor, a non-autonomous territory illegally occupied by Indonesia, in violation of the principles established in the United Nations Charter and applicable resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council. 20 My Government reaffirms that the United Nations has a great responsibility vis-à-vis the people of East Timor and should not fail in it. In this context, the Republic of Angola supports and encourages dialogue between Portugal, the administering Power, and Indonesia in search of a settlement that will bring self-determination and independence to the people of Timor. We are, likewise, profoundly concerned by the difficult social and economic situation in the Republic of Cuba resulting from the financial and economic blockade imposed on that member State of the General Assembly. The Government of Angola supports the General Assembly resolutions appealing for the lifting of the economic blockade in favour of the Cuban people, which is suffering under the negative effects of that measure. We therefore encourage a dialogue with a view to normalizing relations between those two sovereign Member States of the Organization, which we call the United Nations, not the divided nations. In the course of the next century, one of the greatest challenges to the United Nations will be the protection and promotion of human rights. The Government of Angola has always recognized the indivisible and universal character of the fundamental rights of every human being and the intrinsic correlation between human rights, democracy and development. Thus, at the Commission on Human Rights and other forums, Angola has always categorically condemned selectivity and its politicization. We condemn human rights violations, wherever they may occur. This attitude, however, should not serve as a pretext for sectarianism, exerting pressures designed to create political instability in sovereign States, or the implementation of hidden agendas. This practice harms rather than fosters the promotion and protection of human rights. Allow me to take this opportunity to inform the Assembly that, at the proposal of President José Eduardo dos Santos, and in coordination with the United Nations Centre for Human Rights, the 32nd summit meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity decided to hold this year a ministerial-level meeting devoted exclusively to in-depth consideration of the issue of human rights in Africa. The Republic of Angola will have the privilege of hosting this conference, which we believe is of tremendous relevance in the lengthy and difficult process of democratization in our continent. The crisis that is currently affecting the global economy is mostly structural in nature and results from inconsistency, lack of coordination, and the adoption of macroeconomic policies incompatible with the growth needs of the developing world. Of great concern is the realization that the current growth rate of some of our countries is often negative. This compels whole populations to lead lives of starvation and extreme poverty. It is indeed unfair that, at the threshold of the third millennium, there are still some 800 million malnourished people across the world. Africa is the continent most lacking in capital and technology and, as a result, its population growth rate far exceeds its food-production capacity. In turn, this increases poverty and starvation and can lead to serious social unrest. These consequences can be avoided if we are able to rely on the understanding and goodwill of our creditors and major international financial institutions, which impose economic management prescriptions without regard for each nation’s realities. In our view, one of the basic keys to the economic and social development of our countries lies in the expansion and reorientation of economic cooperation for development. We must map out as soon as possible a global developmental strategy that will contribute to the solution of the problems now affecting the survival of our economies. Today, our world has reached such a level of interdependence that new levels of interaction among our economies are required if we are to survive, enjoy stability and avoid the threat of the imminent breakdown suffered by the weaker nations. My Government reaffirms its support for the United Nations special initiative on Africa and, at the same time, underscores the need for greater assurances of success, in view of our experience with similar programmes in the past. Once again, a word of praise is due to the Secretary-General for this initiative, which again demonstrates that the world, and the United Nations in particular, has not turned its back on Africa. If the African continent is to overcome its social and economic crisis, a broad marshalling of financial and other resources will be necessary before the end of this century in order to meet the social and economic development needs of the continent. Likewise, we are deeply concerned by the growth of the external debt of Africa and other developing countries, as well as by the heavy burden involved in debt servicing, which is one of 21 the causes of the continuous economic and social deterioration of our standard of living. We believe that a fair and lasting solution can be found for the African foreign-debt crisis, as long as there is understanding and a strong political resolve on the part of creditors. For certain developing nations, the negotiation of a debt roll-over is a feasible solution. For the less- developed nations, however, the sole viable solution is total forgiveness of the debt and a massive effort in the area of international cooperation for development through partnerships. The strengthening of South-South cooperation and regional economic integration are processes that pave the way for the establishment of a more equitable, new international economic order, free from measures of protectionism that hinder international trade and give rise to discrimination against our nations. Of equal concern is the deteriorating food situation in Africa due to drought and other natural disasters. This can be addressed only through special assistance from the international community for the development of the food and agricultural sectors and of food self-sufficiency in African countries. We extend our best wishes for success to the World Food Summit scheduled to take place in November in Rome, of which His Excellency Mr. José Eduardo dos Santos will be a sponsor. My Government has focused special attention on issues of environment and human settlements and we take this opportunity to underscore the positive impact in Angola of the programmes and related activities in our continent sponsored by the United Nations Environmental Programme and the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements. In spite of all the difficulties it faces, Angola has spared no effort in combating desertification and drought in Africa. We congratulate those countries that volunteered to host the Convention to Combat Desertification and urge all countries to ratify it, thus enabling it to enter into force as soon as possible. Illegal drug trafficking and the chemical-precursors trade, together with money laundering, represent another scourge that is destabilizing our nations. Drug trafficking for us, therefore, is an international problem requiring cooperation among all countries worldwide. With the support of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and the assistance of other United Nations specialized agencies, my Government has drafted and submitted to our Parliament updated legislation relating to our struggle against the traffics in illegal drugs, psychotropic substances and chemical precursors. This law was enacted recently, but we still lack the technical and expert resources to ensure the success of that campaign. In southern Africa, we have coordinated our policies in this area so as to score significant successes, both nationally and regionally. The results are satisfactory and encouraging. Today, just as it was 51 years ago , the struggle for peace continues to be one of the fundamental goals of our Organization. We must therefore devote all our efforts and energy to the creation of a better world instead of preparing for new wars of self-destruction. My Government has signed, and the Angolan Parliament has just ratified, the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We support the efforts to ban new nuclear tests. We also reiterate our appeal for respect for and preservation of the African continent and its contiguous areas as a nuclear-free zone, in accordance with the Pelindaba Treaty. The Republic of Angola is today one of the countries in which the largest number of anti-personnel land-mines can be found. There are over 10 million mines laid in Angolan territory. These mines have inflicted innumerable casualties, and over 100,000 people have been mutilated in my country. My Government supports all efforts towards a total ban on the production and export of anti-personnel land-mines and their use in domestic or international conflicts. With the Assembly’s permission, I would like to address the situation in Africa, which today seems like a corpse on which vultures come to feed. Some countries of our continent still face serious obstacles due to negative interference in the peace process and in their efforts to promote economic development, the well-being of African peoples and the establishment of peace, security and political stability. The problem of conflicts in Africa is undoubtedly one of the crucial issues affecting the development and stability of our continent. The Government of Angola would like to praise the efforts of the Central Organ of the Organization of African Unity’s Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution in various African regions and countries, such as Burundi, Liberia and Somalia. 22 In this connection, we support the efforts of the neighbouring countries and others that advocate a negotiated political settlement for the crisis in Burundi on the basis of the country’s constitutional legal order and in consonance with the legitimate interests of the parties. We believe that if this objective is to be achieved, there must be a global dialogue among the parties concerned. We would like to pay tribute to the former President of Tanzania, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, for his efforts to reunite our Burundian brothers who have fallen into enmity around the negotiating table. We are convinced that good will on the part of the politicians will help our sister nation of Burundi overcome its critical difficulties. Concerning Liberia, we would like to congratulate the member countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) for the significant progress made so far, culminating in the swearing in of Ms. Ruth Perry as Chairperson of the Liberian Council of State and the beginning of the belligerent parties’ process of disarmament. Unfortunately, we are still concerned over the situation of Somalia. We feel that in Somalia, as in the case of other conflicts, there is no other way to find peace than through dialogue between the parties concerned. We would like to reaffirm our support for the countries in that region, and particularly for the Prime Minister of Ethiopia in his efforts to bring the Somali factions together around a negotiating table. We also feel that the United Nations should not and cannot renounce its duty and abandon that country to its fate. Finally, we cannot fail to restate our position of principle regarding the issue of Western Sahara — namely, our support for the United Nations and Organization of African Unity resolutions in that regard. We are convinced that the problem can be resolved only through a referendum on the self-determination of that territory. We support a peaceful solution to the conflict, taking into account the interests of the parties, particularly that of the Saharan people, and we offer congratulations on the resumption of direct talks between the Kingdom of Morocco and POLISARIO. I would not wish to conclude my statement without apprising the Assembly in general terms of the situation prevailing in my country during the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, aimed at restoring lasting peace and reconciliation for all Angolans. Prior to doing so, however, I would like to express the sincere appreciation of the Government of Angola to the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Angola, Maître Alioune Blondin Beye, as well as to the representatives of the troika of observer nations — Portugal, the Russian Federation and the United States of America — for the unswerving efforts they have made, individually and jointly, for peace and national reconciliation in Angola. Although the peace process has evinced a certain dynamism since the Franceville and Libreville meetings between the President of the Republic, His Excellency Mr. José Eduardo dos Santos, and the leader of UNITA, Mr Jonas Savimbi, we have been confronted with certain situations that are rather unfavourable for its normal and desirable development. As the Assembly knows, the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol included a calendar of specific tasks for the Government and for UNITA. The position adopted by the UNITA leadership concerning the honouring of its commitments has, unfortunately, given rise to deplorable situations in the course of the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, in spite of the fact that the Government has gone beyond meeting its commitments under the calendar. As a matter of fact, not only did UNITA fail to honour its commitments and fail to comply with the pertinent Security Council resolutions, but it failed to carry out fundamental commitments in the peace process: it failed to confine all its true military forces to quarters; it did not surrender its light and heavy matériel; it did not bring about the induction of all its general officers into the regular armed forces of Angola, in accordance with the agreement; it continued to create impediments and difficulties in the selection and induction of 26,300 troops into the national army of Angola; and, finally, it prevented the free circulation of people and goods, thus delaying the extension of the State administration over the entire national territory. As members know too, at its Congress, held from 20 to 28 August this year, UNITA rejected the offer made to its leader by the Government of the position of Vice- President of the Republic. By so acting, UNITA created an additional difficulty for the formation of the 23 Government of National Unity and Reconciliation. That attitude on the part of the leader of UNITA did not come as a surprise to many observers of the Angolan peace process because it is in keeping with Mr. Savimbi’s habitual lack of coherence. He has always placed his self- interest far ahead of the interests of the Angolan nation. Consequently, it is more than evident that UNITA is trying to impose strategic delays on the peace process and the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, to aggravate the social and economic crisis and to distort the Protocol and other commitments assumed. However, despite the difficulties encountered in the process, the Angolan Government is resolute in its intent to spare no effort to resolve all the country’s problems through dialogue and collective commitment. Our Government, working hand in hand with the democratic forces interested in peace and national reconciliation in Angola, has decided that, regardless of circumstances, we will put an end to the cycle of strife that is disrupting the country. We will launch a new era of peace and political tolerance, strengthen democratic institutions and save the Angolan nation from the economic and social chaos into which it has been plunged by the stubborn attitude of those who try to block the wind with their bare hands. In this connection, I should like to thank the international community for its efforts and understanding in the search for peace in Angola. We are aware of the tremendous costs involved in the operation of United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III), but this is a very sensitive juncture and the perseverance of the international community is of the essence, for victory is certain. Only with the victory of peace and democracy in Angola can we say that the sacrifice of the international community has been worthwhile. In the achievement of those objectives the participation of UNITA is essential. We therefore urge the international community to continue to exert pressure to compel the leader of UNITA to follow a reasonable course, renouncing war once and for all, and to persuade him to occupy his position in Angolan society. For more than 30 years the Angolan people have been subjected to successive wars that have caused and still cause indescribable suffering. After the election in September 1992, Angola was once again plunged into a war that forced all Government activities to be directed at an emergency social policy, the sole objective of which was to mitigate the nefarious consequences that afflicted the lives and dashed the hopes of Angolans. That conflict created over 2 million displaced persons directly affected by the conflict; it drove over half a million refugees into neighbouring countries and maimed more than 100,000 people. In the economic sphere, it destroyed over 70 per cent of the social and economic infrastructure and the agro-industrial base. Those are only a few of the many indicators that reveal the true dimensions of the catastrophe that has befallen Angolans and that has led to a serious deterioration in the humanitarian situation in the country. Given the tragic situation we described earlier, my Government is no longer in a position to face this challenge on its own. What is at stake is the survival of millions of human beings. I should therefore like to take this opportunity sincerely to thank the international community and Governments, as well as governmental and non- governmental organizations, for the assistance they have extended to the Angolan people. I would implore them to continue to assist the needy population without losing sight of assistance for development and self-sufficiency. We peaceful Angolans and our Government will not abdicate our responsibilities. Once again, I extend our best wishes to the President for success as he presides over the General Assembly at this session and pledge to him my delegation’s full and sincere cooperation. ﻿I should like to begin my presentation by congratulating Mr. Razali Ismail on his election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. It bears testimony to this Organization’s confidence in and high regard for his skills and abilities. Also, I wish to express my gratitude to Mr. Freitas do Amaral for the efficient manner in which he presided over the fiftieth anniversary session of the United Nations. At last year’s session, I spoke of the faith of the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis in the United Nations as the only global Organization able to balance the interests of the weak against those of the strong. I spoke also of the need for individual countries to work to develop approaches to collective problem-solving and partnership. Saint Kitts and Nevis reiterates this faith, which, I believe, is amply justified. Very recently the United Nations came to the assistance of my country and made available support and resources to aid the process of constitutional reform, which, hopefully, will avert further fragmentation and preserve the integrity of Saint Kitts and Nevis. I should like sincerely to record my thanks to the Secretary-General for this kind gesture. I said previously that my Government does not ask for hand-outs. We do not expect charity. Our participation in this forum is the result of our commitment to multilateralism. All we ask for is genuine partnership, opportunity and an environment in which we all can prosper. My party, while in opposition, developed an action plan for the progressive growth of the people of Saint Kitts and Nevis. Today, as the duly elected Government, we have readily realized that the problems facing small developing States keep increasing. But this has not diminished our resolve. One year ago, my Government began the difficult and trying task of implementing our policies and devising new strategies to address the stubborn problems facing my country. We recognize that the coexistence in any society of the threat of narco- trafficking, youth unemployment and poverty is a recipe for social chaos. We in Saint Kitts and Nevis are therefore committed to ensuring that the young people inherit a legacy of hope and live in an environment in which dreams are not only kept alive but are realized. We fully appreciate that the challenges ahead are great, but we also see great possibilities, and we are determined to embrace the opportunities. However, to move our people forward we will require partnership; we cannot do it alone. To this end, I welcome with enthusiasm the statement last week by the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs of the United Kingdom. I am encouraged by his intervention because it speaks to the fundamental issues that we in small States have for so long worked to bring to the top of the international agenda. Last year I appealed to Member States to commit to a genuine partnership between the developed and the developing worlds. The developing world — small States in particular — have for far too long been languishing on the periphery of international affairs and are often corralled into the mainstream only when issues of votes or candidatures are at the centre of debates and individual national policies. The Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs of the United Kingdom spoke of the need for the developed world to pursue policies that will allow the economies of developing countries to expand through export-led growth and the abolition of barriers to trade in the developed world. I fully support this call. My delegation would like to see the Bretton Woods institutions come to the aid of small States by creating adequate structures to allow these States to develop economically and participate better in the world 17 system. There must be a period of transition to encourage small States to integrate into the mainstream of international interaction. We all share a common responsibility to ensure that developing countries are more equitably integrated into the world economic system. We must break the insidious cycle of dependency and replace it with bonds of partnership and cooperation. We are our brothers’ keepers. This must be given priority in our national and international policies. The developed world must avoid outmoded perceptions that suggest that it is best qualified to prescribe strategies for growth in developing countries. Attention will also have to be paid to indigenous priorities in developing countries. I say to the Assembly that there can be no prescription without consultation. Attempts at development without recognizing the peculiar problems of small States and the responsibilities of the developed world will not promote sustainable growth. We speak repeatedly of hope, and the promise of the new millennium, yet sometimes overlook many of the problems plaguing us today. My Government looks to this new era with great optimism and unbridled hope that we can achieve sustainable development, that sustainable human growth can be realized, and that our people can afford to dream of a life beyond the expectations of their forebears. However, I fear for our children’s dreams in a world where the products of developing countries are discriminated against and dubious tariffs make our goods seem uncompetitive. I see definite cause for concern when friendly countries that are fully cognizant of the need for the limited preferential access our region enjoys, pursue policies inimical to the development and growth of our countries. This strategy is not free trade. I fear for the progress of my people when development is measured in cold statistical terms that ignore social transformation and sustainable development. I fear for the future of my children if small, vulnerable States such as my own are continuously graduated out of aid-recipient-country status simply because the gross national product per capita is considered high. This policy does not take into account our high per capita cost of infrastructure development; it does not take into account the frequency of hurricanes and other natural disasters, or the diseconomy of scale faced by our small enterprises. I fear for my brothers and sisters in the Windward Islands, whose very livelihood is threatened and could be seriously undermined by the disputes over Windward Island banana exports. If the economies of the Windward Islands are affected, my country, too, will suffer. Our economies are very closely linked. We share a common currency, a common central bank and, of course, a common future. It seems that the international community would readily punish growth. Whenever small States experience relative growth, instead of lending further assistance to ensure that they emerge from the quagmire of deepening poverty, necessary resources and support systems are taken away, and these countries find themselves being graduated out of concessional assistance programmes. This is wrong. This is inhumane. When we rob a man of the means to feed and educate himself and his family, how can we expect him to contribute productively to civil society? This is a world of people, and its organization must be about people. Their needs should not become secondary to systems, policies and experiments. Structures should be used to further the goals and aspirations of our peoples despite differences in economies, populations and size. Our peoples all share a common dream: the dream of freedom to chart their own destinies; the dream of self- reliance; the dream of a better standard of living. On the question of the environment, it is inconceivable that the very countries that agree to contribute to coastal erosion management and fund studies on environmental protection would wish to trans-ship hazardous toxic waste through our waterways. The fragility of my region’s ecosystems, the openness of the economies, the overwhelming reliance on food imports, and the susceptibility of the tourism product put us precariously, and, perhaps, uniquely, at the mercy of external forces. Saint Kitts and Nevis intends to preserve the standard of living we have achieved and to ensure a prosperous future for all of our peoples. My Government strongly urges the international community to respect our determination to make the Caribbean a nuclear-free zone and to keep it free from toxic pollutants. The region already suffers from the consequences of rising sea levels, coastal erosion and the destructive effects of natural disasters. The catalogue is very long; we cannot add further problems to it. Small island developing States require committed, long-term assistance in environmental protection. I am 18 convinced that sustainable development and environmental preservation are inexorably linked. We cannot make token gestures of support on one level only to undermine support on another. We need to enforce existing international instruments, promote cooperation and allow the United Nations to play a more central and coordinating role in developing appropriate machinery for bringing together political will and financial and technological resources to guarantee results. I call on the United Nations to devise a comprehensive and integrated approach to addressing sustainable development. Additionally, I urge developing countries to work more closely together to develop indigenous strategies and innovative approaches in order to solve the problems of development. The plethora of issues which come before the United Nations are critical. Therefore, it is necessary that the United Nations undergo substantive reform that will address resource distribution and the implementation of recommendations. We must be careful not to address reform in a superficial way. We have to commit ourselves to reforms which allow the Organization to respond more effectively to the problems which face Member States. It is our collective responsibility to restore and strengthen the international agenda of the United Nations and support its role and performance in the social, institutional and economic fields. I believe that the Organization can help to fuse our individual and collective goals. However, Member countries must believe in the international relevance of this Organization. It is important for us to promote consensus in addressing the important questions of budgetary and administrative reform of this, our Organization. Irrespective of national ambitions, irrespective of size or resources, the United Nations is the only global institution whose membership gives it the mandate to examine the vast array of problems that affect the entire community of nations. The work being undertaken to reform the United Nations should be structured in such a way as to eliminate unnecessary wastage and bureaucratic inefficiency. At the same time, we should not use the problems as an excuse to diminish our commitment to the strengthening and re- energizing of the United Nations. When we look at international affairs, democracy is still one of our most sacred aspirations. But it needs tangible institutional and infrastructural support. My Government welcomes the extension of the United Nations mission in Haiti which we believe is crucial to consolidating and furthering the cause of democracy and human resource development in Haiti. We should not expect to strengthen democracy in Haiti without addressing the systemic causes of poverty, illiteracy and violence and the absence of democratic institutions. The people of Haiti will eventually inherit the rewards of peace when commitment to long-term social, political and economic development is assured. It is unwise for States to use politics and partisanship to impede progress in Haiti. Its people long for an opportunity to become masters of their own fate, and they should be given that chance to pursue their national aspirations. My delegation welcomes the prospects for peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the progress towards implementing the recommendations of the Dayton Accords. We welcome the willingness of the parties to develop democratic institutions, enhance human rights and see to the return and settlement of displaced persons. The situation in this region is still quite fragile. We must continue to struggle for peace, and people must be made to believe that such atrocities will never, ever happen again. The situation in the Middle East has regrettably taken a turn for the worse. I appeal to the region’s Governments to recommit themselves to peace, the only viable option for attaining coexistence, security, stability and genuine progress for all parties concerned. We further urge the Governments to continue to respect the agreements reached and to commit to their implementation. The successes of past years should never be squandered. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis lends its support to the work of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and commends the work of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity in attempting to resolve these challenging and often thorny issues. We also urge all factions in Burundi to give negotiations a fighting chance. Violence breeds violence, but peace gives birth to partnership. Peace gives birth to growth and to economic development. We have circulated a document which reflects our policy regarding Taiwan. Our policy is to respect the territorial integrity of all countries and to refrain from 19 interference in the internal affairs of all Member States. Because of our traditional relationship with the 21.3 million people on Taiwan, we have come to respect their economic stability and progress. Their growing democracy and their contribution to the developing world have not gone unnoticed. We believe they have an important and continuing role to play in international development strategies. We are confident that whatever difficulties exist between the Chinese people separated by the Taiwan Strait can be resolved by the Chinese people themselves and in a spirit of fraternity and good will. We urge the international community to be ready, if necessary, to provide the mechanisms to facilitate dialogue and cooperation. Resolution of the stalemate would significantly contribute to the cause of development worldwide and to peace and security in the region. We look forward to the implementation of the Platform for Action adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. My Government believes that this is a significant step and a triumph for all women worldwide. It will allow them to achieve full equality of opportunity and equitable integration into the mainstream of decision-making and the development process. We should bear in mind when discussing the question of human rights that we commit a fundamental error by selectively disregarding the right to economic survival and social well-being. When we single out human rights and freedom we do grave injustice to those people languishing below the poverty line, unable to determine the course of their own lives. Fundamental to achieving tangible results is the necessity of adopting a comprehensive and wholesome approach to human rights. It is not nearly enough to ensure political suffrage and freedom of expression, although these are extremely important, without establishing mechanisms to foster social self-reliance and economic independence. To promote human rights in the wider sense is to complement and consolidate a democratic culture within any given society. Human rights protection also means protecting the rights of children against hunger, against mental and physical abuse, against prostitution, against trafficking in children and against pornography. Therefore, we must attack the ills of poverty, illiteracy and deprivation and enact punitive legislation. We support the first international conference on the sexual exploitation of minors, held in Stockholm, as a significant step and an important initiative to raise awareness and develop strategies. In conclusion, I challenge the international community to give effect to promises with solutions and tangible results. If we fail to design appropriate strategies today to address present problems, we are doomed to repeat past mistakes. The time for action is overdue. Please, we can wait no longer and we must delay no longer.  ﻿For Sri Lanka it is a matter of particular pride and pleasure that we have a distinguished representative of an Asian country, Malaysia, presiding over the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Sri Lanka and Malaysia have long enjoyed the warmest ties of friendship. We congratulate the President, and offer him our unstinted support. We also wish to express our appreciation of the contribution made to the success of the historic fiftieth session by His Excellency Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal. Last year at our Special Commemorative Meeting we pledged to bequeath to the twenty-first century a United Nations equipped, financed and structured to serve effectively the people in whose name it was established. This pledge we must not fail to honour. The peoples of the world will be watching us closely during this session and thereafter to see how well we are proceeding to redeem the promise we made last year in such fine phrases and rhetoric. The financial constraints confronting the Organization have tempered the once heady enthusiasm among nations for radical reform. Sober pragmatic conclusions now seem inevitable. Yet we must remember that our task, as Sri Lanka’s President pointed out last year, is to: “enhance the capacity of the United Nations, rather than merely effect economies and scale down its scope.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 35th meeting, p. 9) A viable resource base for the United Nations can be assured not only by effecting greater financial responsibility and sound management, but also, more urgently, by a serious commitment by all Members to honour the financial obligations they are bound to comply with within the terms of the Charter. We agree that the Secretariat of our Organization needs to be rationalized further. The Organization is now, I believe, sufficiently mature to effect cuts where cuts are due. Programmes affecting developing countries need to be lean, effective and sustainable, which is not the same as saying they should not be touched. Prudent, well- conceived economies could be, and have been, put into effect. We must reform, not deform, the Organization. Above all, the United Nations desperately needs a sound financial base. Without that, there will be no prospect of building the streamlined, efficient and effective world Organization that we all dream of. We will merely waste our time and energy building castles in the air. The working groups on the question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council and on the strengthening of the United Nations system have made some progress, although no finality has been reached in regard to the main areas of focus. We believe, however, that these efforts should continue. We should redouble our energies to reach consensus. The main organs of the United Nations, it must be emphasized, will be credible and effective only to the extent that they secure the confidence of the general membership and ensure that their decisions enjoy general acceptance. With regard to the Security Council, it is our view that today’s political and economic realities, rather than yesterday’s military power, need to be reflected in any decisions to be taken on questions such as that of the permanent membership of the Council and the enlargement of its overall membership. The United Nations must neither master nor servant be. First, despite fashionable theories about the need to limit national sovereignty, the members of the Organization remain sovereign, independent States. Each State, however small and weak it may be, jealously guards its sovereignty. Hence, where the United Nations intervenes, it should do so expressly within the terms of the Charter. The consent and cooperation of States are vital to ensure the success of any United Nations endeavour which impinges on the territory of a Member State. Only such an approach would guarantee the safety and security of United Nations personnel and the welfare and interests of the people in the receiving State. In playing its role in conflict resolution and peacemaking, it is important that our Organization should not stray into domestic issues and conflicts which are within the domestic jurisdiction of the States concerned. The Organization should play its role only with the acceptance of the countries concerned. This position arises from the simple logic that the States concerned are best equipped, in the first instance, to deal with these issues, being familiar with the socio-economic milieu in which they arise. Otherwise, United Nations action could be counter-productive and could lead even to the exacerbation of conflicts. Nor should United Nations mandates be used to serve the interests of any one State or group of States. The United Nations must not be used as a franchise to give legitimacy to causes that may not reflect the general will of the membership, on whose behalf the Security Council should act at all times. Now more than ever before we must reaffirm our collective respect for the fundamental principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The smaller nations of the world must receive constant reassurance from the larger nations that their interests will be safeguarded and their sovereignty respected. The smaller nations have only the United Nations to look to for the protection of their national interests. First, translated into practical terms, developing countries, which are under-represented, need to have their numbers increased in the Security Council. Secondly, there are Member States in the Organization which advance arguments to support permanent seats in the Council no less cogent than the arguments tendered 50 years ago to justify the special status of the current five permanent members. My delegation also notes the useful discussions that have taken place on the subject of “An Agenda for Peace”. We feel that further work needs to be done in this area. The subject matter of the Agenda for Development is of crucial importance. It underlies the central role of our Organization in the field of economic cooperation and development. While noting the progress that has been achieved in this endeavour, we should reiterate our commitment to move speedily in this area which vitally concerns the economic advancement and stability of developing countries. I turn now to the problem of terrorism. The epithet “terrorist” has been too often hurled unjustifiably at genuine national liberation movements, those, for instance, which struggled against foreign occupation and apartheid. The legitimacy of such organizations has been recognized by the United Nations. They are organizations which have sat with us here to discuss the issues which had compelled them to armed action. We are happy to see those true movements of the people now occupying seats in this Organization as full Members. We should not spend time seeking to evolve a comprehensive definition of terrorism, lest we become helplessly mired in a semantic minefield. An international consensus against terrorism, based on the recognition of stark reality, has matured over the years. It is imperative now to implement that consensus. The world is aware that Sri Lanka has been racked with the anguish of a violent ethnic conflict which has sapped our energies for almost two decades. We have 2 been dealing for many years with an armed group which seeks to dismember our country by violent means, resorting to terrorism as a means of achieving this illegitimate goal. This group — the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) — has been perpetrating a series of terroristic acts, causing death and destruction in many parts of my country. This extremist group does not in any meaningful sense represent the people they claim to fight for. They have never sought a mandate from the people at an election. They have kept out of the democratic mainstream, when many of the minority parties have entered the consultative process to seek redress for their grievances through democratic means. We are working on a set of proposals introduced by my Government to address minority grievances, which includes far reaching constitutional changes. The LTTE does not believe in the path of peaceful negotiations, having put their faith in the power of the gun. The peace process, they fear, would marginalize them; hence the recourse to increased violence. We are aware that — in terms of finance, equipment and war matériel — this group draws support from persons outside our country, but not from other States. There is not a single State that supports them either in word or deed. They receive support from misguided members of the Tamil community who live and work in the affluent countries, or through extortion, drug trafficking, gun-running, people-smuggling or other illegal activities in many developed countries, in abuse of the hospitality of the host Governments and in violation of their laws. In Sri Lanka, the terrorists have deliberately targeted civilians. They have bombed a rush-hour commuter train and busy office buildings and have shot up rural villages, causing the death of thousands of innocent civilians, including large numbers of women and children. Many thousands have been injured and maimed. As Sri Lanka’s President emphasized last year at the fiftieth-anniversary session, concerted international action is essential to combat terrorism and compel terrorists to renounce violence. On that occasion President Clinton remarked that no one was immune from terrorism. The summit meeting of the Group of Seven and Russia in Lyon and the subsequent ministerial meeting on terrorism in Paris took bold initiatives which need to be developed into practical action. The proposals for a convention on terrorist bombings and the proposals to prevent the abuse of asylum and refugee laws are particularly timely initiatives. Sri Lanka looks forward to their elaboration during this session. Efforts need also to be made to further strengthen and give legal effect to the 1994 Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism. Now we need more than a mere declaration; we need a convention on measures to combat terrorism. Concerted international cooperation is necessary to ensure that the terrorist does not enjoy safe havens anywhere in the world. The territory of no State should be permitted to be used in any manner that would encourage or sustain terrorist activity in another. Fund-raising activity on foreign soil in particular, either directly or indirectly through so-called charitable funds, must be prohibited. Should terrorism be permitted through international apathy to fester, it would poison the international body politic, enervating democratic processes, processes the international community is obliged to sustain. It would be myopic for a nation to stand aloof or to disown responsibility for combating acts of terrorism which may seem too distant to evoke anything more than curiosity. With the English poet John Donne, I would say, “never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee.” Terrorists have the means to move freely across borders, have used chemical weapons, and could well have access to nuclear weapons. Global interdependence is undoubtedly a modern reality. However, opinions vary on the real implications of that phenomenon on the economies of developing countries. In the development debate, globalization and the call for integration into a single global economic grid are held out as the primary or even the sole option for developing countries seeking cooperation with developed countries. But cooperation must not be confused with conformity. The specific character of individual developing countries, including the social and political compulsions facing their Governments, needs to be taken into account. Globalization involves the free flow of capital, the liberalization of trade, the privatization of State enterprises, the freezing of price controls and the scaling down of welfare measures even for the most vulnerable sectors of the population. These have not always proved to be a panacea for those developing countries which have accepted them as economic injunctions. 3 It is important that such institutions as the World Trade Organization, the successor institution to GATT, be sensitive to the concerns of developing countries in such matters as external investment flows, which should not be clogged with linkages to issues more relevant to other organizations and institutions. Similarly, while sound social and environmental policies are essential for all societies, arbitrarily imposed standards should not be used as excuses for trade discrimination or concealed protectionism. The Government of Sri Lanka has provided opportunities for its private sector to advance as the principal engine of growth. Sri Lanka continues to welcome investment — economic and technological collaboration with foreign entrepreneurs on the basis of mutual benefit. These efforts, however, would be negated if such economic cooperation were pursued only on terms overwhelmingly favourable to one side. Despite the pressures and tensions caused by a situation of conflict, we have succeeded in keeping our old democratic institutions and traditions alive and strong. We give our best attention to the protection and promotion of human rights. In furthering an elected Government’s accountability to its own people, the Government of Sri Lanka has taken several measures to strengthen the legal framework and ensure the effective implementation of human-rights standards. One of the significant measures we took this year was the establishment by act of Parliament of a Human Rights Commission. We have ensured that the act guarantees independence of action for the Commission. The areas of competence of the Commission include monitoring, investigative and advisory functions. The act also addresses the question of liability of non-State actors for human-rights violations. My Government has decided to accede to the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights as a logical next step in a series of national measures. Sri Lanka will thus be among the few countries that have taken the progressive decision to ratify the Optional Protocol. The Government has given the highest priority to Sri Lanka’s obligations under international covenants and we are committed to continuing our cooperation with United Nations human-rights mechanisms. Looking at the world, we see that, in Bosnia, following the Dayton Agreement, the guns have been finally silenced, and we are happy to note that the peace Agreement is holding up. Sri Lanka has condemned the atrocities committed in Bosnia, particularly the inhuman and cruel treatment of the Muslims. We believe that a settlement will not be complete unless those responsible for the atrocities are brought to justice. In the Middle East, we hope the peace process will move on, without losing the momentum it had gained, despite the changes in the political scene in that area. Sri Lanka reiterates its support for the peace process, the realization of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people and the establishment of conditions of peace and stability for all States in the region to live within secure boundaries. We commend the efforts taken by the United States of America, other concerned States and the States of the region to achieve the objective of bringing peace to the Middle East. We share the concerns of the world community in regard to the crises that have overtaken Liberia and Burundi and express our fervent hope that peace will be restored to these troubled regions. In our own region, South Asia, we have recorded progress in our efforts at regional cooperation. We celebrated the tenth anniversary of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) last December, heralded by the coming into force of the South Asian Preferential Trade Arrangement. SAARC has set itself the goal of achieving a South Asian free-trade area by the early years of the new century. The private sectors of our region are engaged in close cooperation. We remain deeply committed to our abiding concern of alleviating, if not eradicating, poverty in our countries within a realistic time-frame. Sri Lanka has turned increasingly towards promoting economic cooperation with countries in the Asia-Pacific region with which we identify closely. We see regional cooperation as a source of political stability as well as mutual economic benefit. We have recently become a partner in the Indian Ocean rim initiative. We have applied for membership of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council. We also expect that, when the required ratifications are completed, the Indian Ocean Marine Affairs Cooperation will provide a further impetus to technical and other cooperation among Indian Ocean countries. At the political level, Sri Lanka, with other members of the United Nations Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean, is reviewing the concept of the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace in the light of current realities in the region. I wish to refer at this point to the Non-Aligned Movement, of which Sri Lanka is a founding member. 4 Today — 26 September — is a particularly significant date for Sri Lanka, which commemorates a great patriot, the late S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike, who was assassinated on this date. He was Prime Minister from 1956 to 1959. He ushered in a uniquely peaceful, non-violent transformation of Sri Lankan society. His electoral victory in 1956 led to the empowerment of the rural, the underprivileged, the mass of the people of the country, and set the country’s foreign policy firmly towards non-alignment. Two days ago, we celebrated the thirty-fifth anniversary of the founding, in a formal sense, of the Non- Aligned Movement. Mr. Bandaranaike did not live to see the Non-Aligned Movement firmly established in 1961. However, in 1956, 40 years ago, he addressed this General Assembly and said: “We are supposed to be the uncommitted' nations. I strongly object to that word. We are committed up to the hilt. We are committed to preserve decency in dealings between nations, we are committed to the cause of justice and freedom.... “No doubt the prevention of war is a necessary factor for peace, but peace, believe me, is something much more positive than that, for peace in its true sense means human understanding, human friendship and cooperation out of which, indeed, peace in its true form alone can arise. I look upon the United Nations as the one machine available to mankind today through which it can express this unconquerable spirit of man in its efforts to achieve that peace, friendship and collaboration.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Eleventh Session, Plenary Meetings, 590th meeting, p. 234-35) The policies he initiated in respect of Sri Lanka — and I confine my remarks to foreign policy — were carried forward by his successor, Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike, who, as Prime Minister, attended the first Non-Aligned summit in Belgrade in 1961 and subsequently presided over the fifth summit of the Movement in Colombo. The Movement, which has a membership of 113 countries, is today the largest grouping of independent sovereign States in the world, apart from the United Nations itself, which have come together with the common objective of achieving peace, prosperity and the welfare of their people, a majority of whom belong to the third world. With the end of the cold war, there were sceptics who thought that the Movement would die in the absence of a clear role for the future. We have been able to dispel this misapprehension and chart a new course for the Movement. It has emerged today as the voice of the third world, of the smaller countries which are crying out for a place in the sun and demanding opportunities for economic development and self-expression. Although the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons has been extended indefinitely, it is to be remembered that the total elimination of nuclear weapons is the ultimate end of the non-proliferation process. As a member of the Conference on Disarmament, our delegation has worked hard to ensure that all nuclear testing be banned as an interim measure, leading eventually to the total elimination of all nuclear weapons. The text of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty adopted by the General Assembly a few days ago was the result of several years' patient negotiations, yet its terms do not contain a firm and clear commitment to nuclear disarmament and the total elimination of all nuclear weapons. We would have expected the scope of prohibition to be truly comprehensive and the provisions for entry into force not to be self-debilitating. We look forward to the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention as well as the Convention relating to bacteriological and toxin weapons. Sri Lanka remains a loyal and dedicated Member of the United Nations committed to upholding the noble principles of the Charter. Our faith and trust in this great institution, fashioned half a century ago, despite all its weaknesses and failures discerned in the intervening years, remains steadfast. These blemishes are after all but a mirror-image of the infirmities and inadequacies of all human kind. So we have no need to be either discouraged or despondent. We stand firm in the belief that the United Nations is still the best hope for this world. Indeed, we have no alternative or option in this matter, for to give up hope is only to slide into the depths of despair. But our hopes for the United Nations must be grounded in action, in a firm resolve to act decisively in the best interests of this great institution, indeed of all humanity, untainted by the narrow national interests which have dogged our path in the course of these past five decades. This is no easy task, but unless we remain unyielding in our determination to ensure that the United Nations remains faithful to the tasks envisioned by its founders, we will have failed the generations that follow us in the twenty-first century. 5  ﻿It is a great honour for me to extend to Mr. Razali Ismail our warmest congratulations, on behalf of the delegation of Trinidad and Tobago, on his election as President of this session of the General Assembly. As the United Nations begins the second half-century of its existence, and as the international community seeks to renew and reshape the Organization to deal with the challenges of the approaching millennium, the Trinidad and Tobago delegation is particularly pleased to see the stewardship of the General Assembly in the hands of a leader and a friend of Mr. Razali’s calibre. My delegation would also like to express its deep appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for the able manner in which he presided over the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. Today more than ever, we live in a global age, an age of immeasurable possibilities and opportunities engendered by advances in technology, the information revolution and globalization; but it is also an age full of peril, one characterized by complex and myriad challenges, many of which we have yet to understand fully or come to terms with. In this age of globalization and fragmentation, traditional national and international structures are becoming increasingly inadequate to deal with current realities. Nation States are also more frequently confronting the need to find acceptable means by which to yield elements of their sovereignty through regional and multilateral action, in order to deal effectively with global forces that are invariably transnational in nature. In this sea of change in international relations, the whole concept of international security has increasingly moved away from the bipolar view, concerned largely with military security, to one which assigns a central role to sustainable development and the welfare of the individual. The major actors in the international arena are no longer solely nation States, but also economic agents with a global reach and non-governmental organizations with a growing global influence. Yet these powerful forces that are inexorably pulling us together are also simultaneously tearing us apart, engendering fragmentation, reactivating age-old conflicts, and threatening more than ever to marginalize and leave behind large segments of humanity in the march to progress. Among some of the more powerful and industrialized countries, the fears of active integration and engagement are leading to temptations to look inward and to become more isolationist and more protectionist. In addition, the problems of persistent poverty, increasing unemployment, debilitating debt, declining levels of official development assistance, environmental degradation, drug abuse and drug trafficking, crime, terrorism and social disintegration have combined to present a formidable array of challenges, which, if left unaddressed, threaten to overwhelm us and further marginalize the vulnerable and disadvantaged among us. In this new global environment, we are at a critical crossroads, and in many ways the decisions that confront us in the international community on the eve of the 20 twenty-first century are no less important than those that confronted us at the end of the war to end all wars. In this evolving global society, the choices are clear. Will we allow the world to drift towards the dangerous anarchy of spheres of influence and unchecked confrontation? Or will we commit ourselves to greater cooperation inherent in the call to global neighbourhood action? Will we allow ethnic conflicts and “ethnic cleansing” to continue? Or will we resolutely resist the primitive impulses by devising mechanisms to avoid repetitions of these phenomena, wherever they occur? Will we grasp the new opportunity for global prosperity, or will we allow the common global enemies to overwhelm us? Will we help to alleviate the crisis in multilateralism and give to the world of the twenty-first century a reformed United Nations, true to the ideals of the founding fathers, or will we increasingly move in the direction of unilateralism, seeking to use the United Nations for narrow self-interest? Finally, will we give to the world a new global order, true to the letter and spirit of the fiftieth anniversary Declaration, and based on the sustainable development agenda of the recent global conferences, or will we build a world of two societies, one getting progressively richer and the other progressively poorer? We must not be afraid of challenges. Trinidad and Tobago, as a small developing island State, with all the concomitant vulnerability and fragility, has embarked on an aggressive, outward-oriented strategy of development. This strategy has been informed by the need to optimize our ability to participate in a global economy that is becoming increasingly knowledge-based, fiercely competitive and volatile. Our development strategy has as its basic objective the attainment of broad-based economic growth with social equity. It assigns a special emphasis to trade, investment, tourism, agriculture, services and the environment, and it seeks, through a political process of inclusiveness and empowerment, to mobilize all of our human resources in the task of building a sustainable democracy. In November 1995, the new Government of Trinidad and Tobago, which I have the honour to lead, assumed office through the medium of the ballot box. The peaceful and democratic transfer of power that took place at that time was further ample testimony to the political maturity of our peoples, and the political stability that we in Trinidad and Tobago and the Caribbean have been fortunate to enjoy. In any democracy, however, one must be eternally vigilant, constantly striving to enhance the democratic tradition and strengthen the democratic process. It is in this context that I have sought to establish a Government of National Unity, committed to partnership-building at all levels. Special emphasis has been placed on the devolution of power from central to local government authorities, so as to facilitate greater participation in the democratic process. A National Multipartite Commission, comprising representatives of labour, business, Government, non-governmental organizations and the Inter-Religious Organization, has been established and entrusted with the task of formulating a comprehensive plan of action to take us into the twenty-first century. The aim of these and other measures is to build a truly participatory society, empowering all of our peoples. In the social arena, we have sought to create a viable social pact among business, labour and Government, built on consultation, partnership and consensus, so as to provide stability, trust and transparency in industrial relations. We have also sought, through our social programmes, to place special emphasis on the disadvantaged and dispossessed, with a view to providing them with the necessary support, training and skills for effective participation in our society. In this regard, a Change Management Unit for Poverty Eradication and Equity Building has been established under the authority of a senior Cabinet Minister. The unit is entrusted with the responsibility of formulating an integrated, multi- sectoral and sustained approach to poverty eradication, and ensuring its implementation in all facets of the Government’s economic and social policies. As a complement to this Unit, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago will, on 24 October 1996 — United Nations Day — set up a National Social Development Council to mobilize national action to deal with the homeless and the poor. This innovative approach to poverty eradication is being implemented in close cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme, which has provided timely support in this, the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty. In keeping with the spirit of Beijing and the Platform for Action of the Beijing Conference, a vigorous policy and legislative agenda is being formulated and implemented through a consultative process, the objective being to optimize the role of women as equal partners in the development process. With regard to the environment, a comprehensive legislative and policy framework has been put in place to respond to the demands of sustainable development. This new environmental regime will serve to ensure a 21 “greening” of the Government’s own operations, while simultaneously engaging the public and industry in a partnership for responsible management, protection and conservation of the environment. Trinidad and Tobago’s economic programme places a premium on trade, with the private sector as the engine of growth in the economy. Some of the essential elements of the strategy are the attraction of private investment flows, creation of increased market access, and the implementation of an appropriate industrial policy. This is being achieved through the pursuit of a sound and stable macroeconomic policy, supported by a prudent and disciplined fiscal and monetary stance, and the delivery of an investor-friendly institutional legal framework. We in Trinidad and Tobago are under no illusions. All of our national efforts will be in vain if we do not have a supportive regional and international environment, as well as access to a fair, open and non-discriminatory international trading regime. Regional integration has always been a fundamental component of the development strategy of Trinidad and Tobago. Accordingly, our Republic has built strategic alliances through the Caribbean Community, the Rio Group and, more recently, the Association of Caribbean States, comprising countries of the wider Caribbean. We continue to be engaged actively in efforts to deepen and broaden the integration process within the region through initiatives that we hope will culminate in formal relationships with the Central American Common Market, the Andean Pact and the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR). Our vision for the future is a single free-trade area in the western hemisphere. For small States like Trinidad and Tobago, greater regional integration and cooperation are imperative if we are to minimize the negative and pervasive effects of globalization, while simultaneously laying the foundations for our increased capacity to navigate the turbulent waters of the expanding global economy. Regionalism is a critical priority, but in today’s world it must be conceived as a natural and essential complement to wider international cooperation. The common evils of the twenty-first century will require a common approach, a common commitment. I can think of no other organization more uniquely placed or more legitimate than the United Nations to foster the global conscience, to fashion the necessary understanding, to build the mutual partnerships, and to organize the global cooperative effort. In the field of sustainable development, the continuum of global conferences, from Rio to Istanbul, have laid down a global agenda, a development blueprint for the twenty-first century. Yet as discussions on the Agenda for Development have shown, there is a crisis of commitment, particularly on the part of the developed countries, to provide the required resources. “Donor fatigue” and declining levels of official development assistance threaten to render meaningless the global understanding, consensus and Programmes of Action forged in respect of the major issues and problems of our times. This negative mood imperils all of us, for it threatens to subject some one fifth of the world’s population, who live in poverty, to a life of perpetual despair. But more than that, it ignores the fact that the gap between the haves and the have-nots continues to grow alongside the growth in world trade. It forgets the message inherent in the common problems of our time: that whether we like it or not, our progress, and increasingly our security, is tied to that of our neighbours, no matter how poor or how distant they may be. Finally, it ignores the generally acknowledged fact that preventive action to deal with the root causes of conflict is less costly and more effective than corrective action. Trinidad and Tobago also attaches the highest priority to the fight against drug abuse and drug trafficking. We have intensified our coordination activities at the national level, and have systematically put in place cooperative mechanisms with other Caribbean and Latin American countries, as well as with other States whose involvement is critical to the success of national and regional efforts. We believe that the violence, the corruption and the human despair which this menace wreaks on societies in all corners of the globe, should leave no doubt as to the imperative need for the United Nations to accord priority attention to this question. Trinidad and Tobago is therefore fully supportive of the call for the convening in 1997 of an international conference on this subject. My delegation wishes to commend in particular the United Nations International Drug Control Programme for its important contribution to the multi-dimensional campaign against drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking being waged within our Republic and in the wider Caribbean and Latin American region. We urge the Drug Control Programme to continue to pursue a comprehensive and balanced approach to this worldwide campaign, endeavouring to address equitably the problems of demand, production and trafficking. 22 In the field of international law, we have over the past decades seen a number of new agreements in virtually all branches of human activity. Trinidad and Tobago is encouraged by the progress made during the fiftieth session of the General Assembly towards the establishment of an international criminal court. We look forward to a positive recommendation for the completion of work during the fifty-first session of the General Assembly in order to realize the goal of a diplomatic conference in 1998 to adopt the statute and establish the court. We in the international community have the responsibility to create this global institution with the requisite global jurisdiction, and to equip it with the necessary authority to make it an effective, impartial body, with the broadest possible participation of States from all geographical regions. Meanwhile, Trinidad and Tobago fully supports the activities of the International Tribunals for the territories of the former Yugoslavia and of Rwanda. In the field of nuclear disarmament, the international community last year indefinitely extended the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and, earlier this month, the General Assembly adopted the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. These two developments have served to promote non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament. The international community must now, however, focus its attention on the emerging consensus that all nuclear explosions must be banned. A related environmental concern to which Trinidad and Tobago, the Caribbean and the Alliance of Small Island Nations attach the greatest importance is that of the continued shipments of irradiated nuclear fuel, plutonium and high-level radioactive wastes. At last year’s Review Conference on the Non-Proliferation Treaty, Trinidad and Tobago and the Alliance of Small Island Nations was able, after long and intensive negotiations, to obtain agreement on specific language registering the concerns of small island developing States and other coastal States on this issue. The considerations which led us to pursue that initiative then are still relevant now. These shipments continue to take place despite the potentially catastrophic effects on small island developing States, whose fragile and vulnerable economies are overwhelmingly dependent on their marine and coastal resources, and who possess neither the resources nor the capability to deal with possible accidents of this nature. Trinidad and Tobago would therefore like to reiterate the priority concern we attach to this issue, and to urge the shipment countries to respect the wishes of small island developing States and other en-route States, which have called for an end to these shipments through their archipelagic and territorial waters, as well as their exclusive economic zones. The notions of shared responsibilities and collective action are the raison d’être of the United Nations system. As we prepare to face the new challenges of the twenty- first century, these notions assume a critical relevance. Trinidad and Tobago is convinced that the United Nations has the capacity to reconcile these opposing forces of globalization and fragmentation in the interests of us all. The United Nations also has the strength and legitimacy to transform the fears and perils of the new age into a constructive global partnership of cooperation and solidarity. Trinidad and Tobago pledges to work with others to harness this potential and to confront the challenges which face the Organization and the international community as we move towards the new millennium. ﻿At the outset, Sir, allow me to join with earlier speakers in congratulating Mr. Razali Ismail on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. His election is unquestionably a recognition of the role that his country has been playing in advancing the ideals of our Organization. It is also a great honour, and a personal tribute to his well-known experience as a diplomat. We wish him every success in his work during this session. We are aware of the substantial number of topics for discussion during this session, and their subject matter. First, however, I wish to discharge the duty given me by the President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, His Excellency Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, and convey to the representatives of the friendly countries meeting here today his greetings and wishes for success in their work during this session. A rapid review of our agenda reveals that many of the issues go to the heart and central purposes of the United Nations. However, it is also true that most of them have been the subject of broad-ranging and thorough debate at many other sessions of the Assembly. To avoid repetition, therefore, I shall briefly sum up my country’s position on these main issues. During the past 50 years the United Nations has constantly worked to heighten the awareness of the 12 international community and the conscience of the world with respect to international peace and stability, justice, equality and development throughout the world. We do not wish to sound pessimistic, but this session of the Assembly is taking place in a context of great uncertainty. Some are even questioning whether the United Nations still has the ability to contribute to solving the problems that have arisen on a daily basis in recent years. For this reason, the first problem that we must face is whether what we have been building over the past 50 years is valid when tackling these issues. For Equatorial Guinea, the answer is “yes” in principle. However, we must also acknowledge that the system we invented 50 years ago must be adapted to current realities. Apart from considering the various options for reforming the United Nations system, we must ask ourselves seriously whether we are prepared to provide the Organization with the legal machinery to make its important decision-making bodies — the General Assembly and Security Council — more democratic. My country believes that the credibility of the United Nations is at stake. We have within our grasp an opportunity to make the United Nations the centre for the global harmonization of our endeavours to achieve the common purposes articulated in the Charter. When making decisions that affect all the countries in our Organization, therefore, the necessary consensus must prevail for us to find appropriate solutions. Given this belief, I wish to make a modest contribution on certain issues that we consider vital to the Organization. Reform of the Security Council is an extremely important and complex issue, which calls for very careful thought. Equatorial Guinea is in favour of establishing machinery to allow for broad consensus in the decisions taken by that body. We therefore support the arguments of those who believe that there is a need for an increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council. We believe that, as others have said, exercise of the veto should evolve towards mechanisms that will make its use more objective. The United Nations should also keep in mind the fact that the cooperation that will make sustainable economic development possible in the developing countries is not just an option; it is an imperative, if we wish to eradicate the poverty and destitution that breed violence and socio-political instability in many countries and regions of the world. Present-day Equatorial Guinea has learnt the hard lesson of what it means to live in democracy and pluralism in a difficult socio-economic climate. Therefore, we believe that the preservation of peace and stability and the fostering of democracy are closely linked to the right of all the world’s peoples to development. For that reason, Equatorial Guinea is concerned about the fate that the resolutions adopted at four important world summit meetings of recent years — the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development at Rio de Janeiro, the World Summit for Social Development at Copenhagen, the Fourth World Conference on Women at Beijing and the World Summit for Children at New York — can expect at the hands of the international community. Are we once more going to fail to fulfil the hopes of our peoples, who had rejoiced to see the Organization take such salutary initiatives? The debt problem remains unresolved, although timid steps have recently been taken by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Where my country’s domestic affairs are concerned, we are building a participatory democracy founded on the people, by the people and for the people. Thus, our development policy is concentrated on the welfare of our citizens. Indeed, within that approach the Government of Equatorial Guinea is pursuing a programme to promote human rights, with the technical and financial assistance of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights. In this connection, a number of courses and seminars are being offered for public order and security personnel as well as for administrative and judicial authorities responsible for law and order. We are daily and progressively enhancing the degree of democratization of State political structures at the rural community, municipal, parliamentary and governmental levels to facilitate transition. In the economic sphere our efforts are directed to reforms that will be an impetus to sustainable development that can improve the standard of living of our population. Nevertheless, we must note here my country’s concern at a trend in the international community to erect barriers that hinder the efforts being made by many developing countries to harness the resources needed for development. In recent years, in fact, we have witnessed a contradictory phenomenon: on the pretext of calling for the restoration of unquestioned principles of democracy and respect for human rights, many developing peoples are being deprived of the resources that will enable them 13 to meet their basic needs. The donor community must, once and for all, learn to distinguish between the demands of certain selfish political interests and the aspirations of peoples to freedom, democracy and development. In the case of Equatorial Guinea, our aspirations to consolidate a State based on the rule of law, democracy and development are held hostage to certain intransigent and radical political groups that are deliberately flooding the international community with disinformation that runs counter to my country’s present-day socio-political realities. For a number of years now, either out of ignorance or because of vested interests, the donor community has wielded the weapon of economic blockade, which has made it impossible to establish democracy on a sure footing in a number of countries. However, we are pleased to inform the Assembly that our ideals of peace, republican order and healthy social coexistence have enabled Equatorial Guinea today to attract world interest. Foreign investment is increasing at a rapid rate, cooperation with friendly countries and international economic institutions is growing and economic growth will exceed 7 per cent by the end of this year. We believe that ultimately Equatorial Guinea will be able to lay the foundation for the country’s overall development in all areas. We would therefore like to take this opportunity to appeal to the international community gathered here to judge Equatorial Guinea by what is actually happening there, and thus to confirm the objective reality of our movement towards progress and prosperity.   ﻿The current session of the United Nations General Assembly is taking place at a complex international time, marked by worrisome developments that exacerbate the feelings of anxiety and precariousness that plague the majority of humanity. These developments result from the profound historic changes that have occurred in recent years, which at one time had given us hope for a new and improved system of international relations that would be more open to the concerns of all in matters of security and more receptive to development needs. The transformation of the international economy and accelerated trends towards globalization have, to be sure, resulted in new, more complex relations, but have also, due to certain harmful side effects, aggravated the imbalances and the dependency of many developing countries, whose courageous economic reforms, achieved at the highest of costs, still confront a hostile environment. In this new era of heightened interdependence, a lack of solidarity still characterizes international relations, and self-interest is persistent in terms of both security and development, emphasizing the lack of a mechanism that can effectively narrow the growing gap between developed countries — ever more prosperous and stable — and a developing world faced with poverty and disorder of every sort. Such observations emphasize that a real awareness on the part of the international community as a whole, and of the developed countries in particular, is slow in coming. They also confirm that piecemeal measures, taken on an urgent basis, are not enough to compensate for the lack of an overall approach to the global problems of our times. 22 Also quite clear in this regard is the marginalization of the mechanisms established to foster, channel and develop cooperation, solidarity and joint efforts among nations. It is significant to note that on the heels of an anniversary session at which the commitment of States to strengthen the authority of the United Nations was forcefully reaffirmed, the Organization is experiencing one of its greatest crises, notably due to restrictions on the resources it needs to accomplish its missions — and this at a time when the demands on it have increased and when expectations are growing that it will play a larger role in preserving peace, in promoting and developing international cooperation, and in emancipating peoples still under domination. Hence the need for all States to discharge their obligations to our Organization, especially since it has embarked upon a courageous process of restructuring and reform designed to make it an instrument capable of generating and developing dialogue, cooperation and confidence among nations. It should be noted, in this regard, that democratization, transparency and a better balance among its major organs all are requirements and basic objectives for a genuine reform of the institution and for ensuring the restoration of the General Assembly’s authority and the functions conferred upon it by the Charter — also a key objective in order to enhance the effectiveness of its action and restore its credibility. Similarly, it is important, within the framework of the question of the expansion of the Security Council, to pay special attention to such crucial aspects as the transparency of its work, the representation on it of the Member States on whose behalf it acts, and the links to be established with the General Assembly. Algeria, which has made a priority, in its foreign policy, of strengthening the credibility and the authority of the United Nations, naturally provides continuous political support and makes varied contributions to its activities, as shown by our participation in the success of certain peace- keeping operations. This is because our Organization remains the most appropriate framework for realizing our aspirations for shared security and development, at the very time when the realization of the twin Agendas for peace and development calls for respecting and strengthening its authority. Here I should like to pay a well-deserved tribute to our Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his vision, his perseverance and the tireless efforts he has been making in the service of adapting the United Nations to the challenges of the current era. His courage, his commitment, and the ambition he has to reinforce the reach and effectiveness of the Organization at a particularly difficult phase in the evolution of international relations have gained him the support of the Organization of African Unity and the League of Arab States. My country reiterates its support for him and wishes him every success at the head of the United Nations. The dawning of a better-organized and more stable international order requires seeking joint responses to the most dangerous threats to the security and development of our countries. These responses can emerge only through joint undertakings, greater solidarity and an effective commitment to combat the most serious consequences of the rise in intolerance and extremism and the denial of the most basic principles of humanity. Among these phenomena, international terrorism is more than ever manifest, in its seriousness as a universal phenomenon, as a threat to the stability of nations and to democratic values in our societies, and as a new type of threat to international peace and security. So combatting terrorism today requires effective international mobilization commensurate with the challenges of a key phenomenon which knows no limits or inviolable sanctuary. It is fortunate that an international awareness of the dangers inherent in this scourge is beginning gradually to emerge. The international response, however, will to a large extent remain insufficient if it is not reflected in concrete action in line with three requirements: the establishment of true international cooperation; a show of greater solidarity; and determination commensurate with regularly stated political commitments. In this regard, the fight against terrorism should not be ambiguous or selective, as it sometimes is. It should be marked by a constant, unfailing mobilization of efforts to dismantle the criminal chain of terrorism, including those who are perpetrators, those who are behind them, the various political networks and their sources of financing and supply, and the direct or indirect logistical support given by individuals, groups or States. The necessary conditions should be created for this. In this context, Algeria supports the idea of holding an international conference on the fight against terrorism. 23 Promoting more stable and more balanced international relations requires collective effort to improve the situation in areas of tension and conflict which threaten international peace and security. In order to be fruitful, these efforts should be buttressed by a search for viable, lasting solutions to these conflicts and by increasing joint efforts and strengthening existing frameworks for dialogue. From this standpoint, the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina was an example of how indecision and lack of determination on the part of the world community cost us a great deal in tragedy and destruction. This long-suffering country is now, to be sure, embarking on the path to peace, even if still remains fragile, and strewn with many obstacles. We venture to hope, however, that its new institutional direction will insure for Bosnia and Herzegovina the peace it needs for stability and reconstruction. Furthermore, the promotion of international relations also presupposes the strengthening of regional integration frameworks which today are the hallmark of an emerging new system of international relations. In its immediate environment, Algeria is actively participating in the establishment and consolidation of joint action for solidarity and cooperation with its neighbours, with which it hopes to develop exemplary good-neighbourly relations. In the Maghreb, the identity, aspirations and common mission of the peoples of the region, naturally, make us desirous of retaining a plan for Maghreb unity as a central element of my country’s policy. This is an irreversible national priority. Algeria’s determination is an expression of faith in the future as is the ability of each of the Arab Maghreb Union partners to take advantage of the opportunities for relations which can be mutually beneficial and which can meet the legitimate aspirations of our peoples. It is in this context of a unified, homogenous and strong Maghreb that Algeria hopes to contribute to the beginning of a just and lasting peaceful settlement of the issue of Western Sahara. It is in this regard too that Algeria continues to provide political support and human and financial resources to the Settlement Plan jointly put in place by the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) with a view to holding a genuine, credible referendum which would guarantee the free exercise by the people of Western Sahara of its right to self-determination and independence. Continuing problems encountered in the implementation of the Settlement Plan, and the uncertainty surrounding the desired political solution of this conflict, require that we redouble our efforts to establish better conditions for a genuine peace framework. We are convinced that this will be possible only if each and every party fully discharges its responsibilities in the implementation of the Plan. A rapid solution would only be advantageous for the peace and concord to which all peoples in the region are entitled. This means in particular that the two parties to the conflict — the Kingdom of Morocco and the POLISARIO Front — should become aware that forthright, constructive and responsible dialogue can bring a solution to pending issues at the current stage, and can also help them to prepare for the future. This also means that the duty of the international community, and of the United Nations in particular, should be translated into a more sustained commitment and presence, and into a continued peace effort in line with international responsibilities towards the people of Western Sahara and their legitimate rights. The establishment of the OAU Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution reflects the determination of African leaders to make a decisive contribution to reducing tensions and settling disputes on our continent. Thanks to this spirit, the painstaking efforts made by the countries of the Economic Community of West African States have opened up promising prospects for a settlement of the conflict in Liberia through national reconciliation and a return to democratically elected institutions. Algeria hopes for a return to calm, reconciliation and national unity in Burundi, which are so crucial for the whole region. We continue to encourage all efforts being made by the countries of the Great Lakes region. The lack of prospects for a settlement in Somalia and the international community’s lack of interest are exacerbating the sufferings endured by the civilian population and are a source of great concern to us. While it is true that Somalians themselves must make a special effort, it is also the duty of the international community — through the United Nations, the OAU and the League of Arab States — to do everything possible to help in reconciliation and in the establishment of national institutions which could earn the embrace and confidence of all Somalians. In the Mediterranean, Algeria has constantly worked towards the establishment of a permanent framework for 24 dialogue and cooperation which would enable the coastal States, without exception, to address their political, security, economic and human concerns. We have always acted with a view to defining a renewed operational machinery which would organize and lead a future of stability and progress in the European-Mediterranean theatre. This is what motivated Algeria to join the process begun in Barcelona. In our view, this was an initial accomplishment, an important step towards the establishment of new European- Mediterranean relations based on mutual confidence and joint actions, which will give tangible content to the indivisibility of security and development in the region. In the Middle East, recent developments have in many respects caused us concern and alarm. The Madrid conference created a historic opportunity for a peaceful settlement for the Arab-Israeli conflict. In the name of good faith and responsibility, the commitments entered into must be respected. Algeria hopes to pursue its contribution to a just and lasting peace, and renews its commitment to the principals adopted by the Madrid conference: land for peace; the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978); and respect for the national aspirations of the Palestinian people. These principles are at the heart of the peace process and the basis for our participation in it. Algeria believes that there is no alternative to a settlement based on the total withdrawal by Israel from all Arab territories occupied since 1967 and on the right of the Palestinian people to the establishment of a sovereign State, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. Today, it is the duty and the responsibility of the international community, and in particular of the co- sponsors of the peace process, to show resolve and determination in continuing their efforts to promote the success of the process — a process which has been jeopardized by Israeli intransigence and back-sliding. The improvement of relations between Arab States and their unity constitute an essential pillar of the peace process. The dawning of peace will depend to a large extent on the mobilization of Arab potential and capacity in the service of peace and to promote relations based on the principles of good-neighbourliness, the non-use of force or the threat of force, and non-interference in the internal affairs of States. All of us, Algeria included, must reverse the logic of confrontation, which has compromised relations between Arab countries since the Gulf war, and work towards reconciliation on the basis of respect for international law. In this context, the unjustified violations of the independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of Iraq require an increased awareness on the part of the world community of the risks inherent in such practices, which are contrary to international law, and of their effects on the stability of the region. Such violations, which Algeria rejects, have only increased the suffering of the Iraqi people, who have already been sorely tried by several years of sanctions which can no longer be justified. In the same vein, Algeria remains concerned at the continuation of sanctions against our sister country, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and by the sufferings these involve for the Libyan people, to which we would like to reiterate our full solidarity. Furthermore, Algeria renews its support for the restoration of the sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates over the Abu Musa islands and the Lesser and Greater Tunb islands, which remain under foreign occupation. My country also expresses its solidarity with Bahrain in the face of the increased foreign interference and threats to which it has been subjected. Algeria’s actions with regard to disarmament stem from its conviction that the acquisition, stockpiling and increased sophistication of arms, in particular high- technology weapons and weapons of mass destruction, do not bring security, but undermine the essential establishment of confidence among nations. Strengthened by this conviction, Algeria has shown — through concrete initiatives taken at the international, regional and internal levels — its commitment to strengthening the process towards general and complete disarmament by eliminating weapons of mass destruction. In this regard, we recall our participation in the drafting and adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty as an initial stage for more substantial measures in this area. Similarly, after having ratified the Convention on chemical weapons and adhering to the nuclear non- proliferation Treaty, on 30 March 1996 Algeria signed a safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency. Acting with similar responsibility, Algeria has helped African efforts. These led to the adoption on 11 April of the Pelindaba Treaty, by which the States Members of the Organization of African Unity declared Africa a nuclear- free zone. This African momentum should be encouraged by similar efforts to establish new zones, especially in the Middle East, which remains a legitimate source of concern for all Arab countries, in particular with regard to Israeli nuclear potential. 25 A better structured and more unified international economic order is a precondition for international peace and security. The globalization of economic, social and political problems, the lack of coordinated management of interdependent issues, the increase in global challenges, and the weakening of national regulatory structures make it ever more necessary to establish new structures for global management within a framework of true democratization of international relations. In response to these objectives, the international community must shoulder more responsibility for the many, interdependent links which hold it together; improve its ability for a collective response to the challenge of development; and increase its support for these efforts. The worsening of the external, bilateral and multilateral debt crisis of developing countries; the erosion and unpredictable nature of resources from export earnings; restrictions on access to markets; the lack of fairness in international trade; one-sided views which affect cooperation; and the unilateral nature of the world decision- making process: all these highlight in different ways the various obstacles which remain on the path to development. This means that, in order to organize a common future on a new basis, the international community must make development a greater concern, promote joint solutions for the sustained growth of the countries of the South and ensure their true integration in the world economy. In this vein, the issue of development financing deserves special attention in the context of the persistent external debt crisis in the countries of the South and the drying up of funds for cooperation, since the approaches taken to this issue thus far have been questionable, to say the least. Imaginative and more global solutions must be found to the external debt problem of the countries of the South and their access to international financing. It is also important to include in our vision of development the enormous potential of the expanding world trade expected from the fair and consistent implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements. The first Ministerial Meeting of the World Trade Organization (WTO), to be held soon in Singapore, will be a good opportunity for the international community to make a clear appraisal of the implementation of these agreements and to make the necessary corrections for a more significant and equitable participation of the countries of the South in international trade. It is through its predictability, stability, openness and transparency that the new world trade system established by the WTO will become a true and forceful factor for development. The international economic situation is still characterized by gaps that make the future of the world more uncertain, given the increase in inequalities and the risk of social rifts they entail. These gaps, which also affect developed countries faced with the severe problems of adjusting to unemployment and exclusion, show how, faced with globalization, international society can only find joint solutions to global problems, particularly those of growth and development. It is in Africa, where the socio-economic situation is evolving more tragically, that this dimension can be seen in all its gravity with the expansion of abject poverty, the spread of disease and the threat of impending famine. It is on that continent that we find the greatest expression of the categorical need for renewed and strengthened international solidarity in a spirit of open- mindedness and partnership to help African countries in their efforts at the socio-economic restructuring necessary to lay the foundations for lasting political and social balance and to open new prospects of hope for their peoples. It is in fact politically unacceptable and morally intolerable to continue to ignore the international threat inherent in the deterioration of the development crisis on that continent. In this vein, the new appeal made last March by the Secretary-General through a special initiative of the United Nations system for Africa deserves our full support, since it compels the international community, and, in particular the wealthy countries, to face up to their basic responsibilities to our continent. In a world that is constantly changing, we must undertake in all diligence and determination to work together to set new balances, enable mankind harmoniously to manage its interdependence and make the international economic environment more conducive to development. By its very nature and unique mission, the United Nations is the appropriate place to give an articulate, joint global response to these challenges. Who better than the United Nations can carry out such a task at a time when managing interdependence is more than ever at the heart of the problems of development and peace? 26 That is why we should come to an agreement on the development programme proposed by the Secretary- General. This programme should support United Nations efforts for Africa. This is why the criteria for streamlining and efficiency which accompany the reform process in the United Nations system in the economic and social spheres should be made manifest in a joint quest for common objectives in organizing the new system of international relations. It is by doing so and by finding further inspiration in its Charter that the United Nations will avoid drifting off track and will become a more effective instrument for the orderly reconstruction of international relations and thereby provide the necessary stability for peace and development.﻿I wish to make a statement on behalf of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan. At the outset, allow me to congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his election to the high post of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, which attests to the recognition of Malaysia’s authority in the international arena. I am confident that, under his able guidance, the General Assembly will write another exemplary chapter in the annals of United Nations history. I also take this opportunity to extend our deep gratitude to the President of the last, historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the excellent manner in which he led the work of the Assembly. The Azerbaijani Republic attaches special importance to the creation of a new world order, based primarily on the strict observance by all States of the fundamental principles of international law and on the comprehensive system of international security. World security must take into consideration the interests of all sovereign States, irrespective of their size or population. No single State should ensure its own security at the expense of another. In a transformed world in the late twentieth century, the euphoria of post-bloc relations has begun to yield to the sober realization that mankind is faced today with acute problems of an increasingly global nature. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, aggressive separatism, international terrorism, drug trafficking and environmental pollution are common problems that must be resolved through joint efforts. In these conditions, the consolidated action of Member States will permit a quicker identification of the real mechanisms needed to address these serious problems. Azerbaijan welcomes the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, recently opened for signature. The objective achieved had been sought for many decades. It is a major contribution to the non- proliferation of nuclear weapons, in particular, and disarmament in general. 10 Taking into account the historical experience of the world community and striving to attain the highest human values, the Government of Azerbaijan, in the person of President Heydar Aliyev, having unified the nation, is heading with determination along the path of democratic reform, since only a climate of peace and national accord based on respect for civic rights and human liberties can ensure the overall development of the individual and society and create conditions conducive to normal interaction with the world at large and the country’s achievement of democratic political, economic and humanitarian standards. However, every aspect of life in my country has been seriously affected by the aggression of the Republic of Armenia. The occupation of about 20 per cent of the territory of Azerbaijan and the seizure and plunder of towns and villages, including tens of thousands of objects taken from households, industry, agriculture, the infrastructure and the social sector, continue to inflict enormous damage on the Azerbaijani State. “Ethnic cleansing” has been carried out in the occupied territories. The country faces an extremely serious humanitarian situation. The number of refugees and displaced persons has passed the one million mark, a figure that is catastrophic for a country with a total population of 7.5 million. Still, we continue to consider peaceful negotiations within the framework of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Minsk process to be the only way to settle the conflict. It was for that reason that Azerbaijan, despite the continuing occupation of its lands and the presence of enormous numbers of refugees and displaced persons, consented to the ceasefire which has lasted for more than two years. The Republic of Armenia, endeavouring to consolidate the gains from its past aggression, refuses to recognize Azerbaijan’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and thereby entirely discredits one of the fundamental principles of international law as a basis for settlement. That refusal has become a major obstacle to the achievement of peace. I would like to reconfirm our clear compromise position on the settlement, which envisages the assurance of unconditional and immediate implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions and OSCE decisions regarding the conflict. The package of our proposals to speed up progress in the Minsk process towards the achievement of a comprehensive settlement consists of these elements: the withdrawal of Armenian forces from all occupied territories of Azerbaijan, including the Shusha and Lachin districts; the return of the Azerbaijani population to their previous places of residence, including the Nagorny- Karabakh region of Azerbaijan; ensuring equal security, monitored by the OSCE forces, for the Armenian and Azerbaijani populations who have suffered as a result of the armed conflict; and guarantees that autonomy will be granted to the entire population of the region constituting Azerbaijan. At their meeting on 22 April 1996 in Luxembourg, held within the framework of the conclusion of bilateral agreements on partnership and cooperation between Azerbaijan, Georgia and Armenia and the European Union, the Presidents of Azerbaijan and Armenia adopted a joint communiqué expressing their agreement that the resolution of the conflict will make a substantial contribution to regional stability and security as well as to the socio-economic development of the peoples of the region. In reflecting on the establishment of a security system at the regional and pan-European levels, we would like to emphasize that in our view the forthcoming OSCE Summit in Lisbon constitutes a real opportunity for the elaboration of basic principles for the settlement, not only for the settlement, not only of the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict, but possibly also other conflicts in the OSCE area. The relevant provisions of the Summit’s final document, agreed at the highest level, could play a most important role in the positive development of negotiations both within the OSCE Minsk process and in all other current mediatory efforts of the OSCE. For several years since the end of the cold war active discussions have been taking place in the world on the transformation of international relations. These discussions are held at different levels and touch upon almost all aspects of life of the world community. The United Nations, as the leading international organization, is the main forum for gathering and testing a majority of ideas related to a vision and understanding of processes taking place in the world in recent years, and the possibilities for their implementation in the name of human progress. In recent years these have been wide discussions on an increase in the membership of the Security Council or, in a broader context, on its reform in the light of the substantial increase in the membership of the United Nations and the major changes in international relations. In this regard, it is important to take into account the need to maintain and even strengthen the ability of the 11 Security Council to respond adequately to threats of international peace and security. Azerbaijan supports the candidatures of Germany and Japan as potential permanent members of the Security Council. At the same time, the question of equitable representation of all regions among the permanent members should not disappear from the agenda. In this context, it should be noted that many other ideas and proposals have been put forward, in particular by Italy and a number of other States, which must be thoroughly studies. Azerbaijan fully supports the efforts undertaken by the international community in response to the alarming increase in terrorist acts in recent years. We unequivocally condemn, as criminal and unjustifiable, all acts, methods and practices of terrorism, wherever and by whomever they are committed, including those that jeopardize friendly relations among States and peoples and threaten the territorial integrity and security of States. Azerbaijan supports the establishment of a specialized international organization to combat terrorism. Azerbaijan attaches crucial importance to the process of integration into the global economic system, and considers it one of the main requisites for the formation of a multidimensional, dynamic market economy and an open democratic society. For this purpose legislation has been adopted to strengthen market economy principles, notably through laws on private property, free enterprise, banking activities, foreign investment protection, and so on. Economic reform in Azerbaijan and the implementation of economic projects are being carried out in active collaboration with the Bretton Woods institutions. Concrete measures have been worked out and are being implemented to shape State economic policy for the transitional period. They include the reform of the monetary and credit system and the development of pricing and tax policies. A three- year programme to privatize State enterprises has been launched. To achieve this goal Azerbaijan actively encourages foreign investment, and has embarked on a consistent course of liberalization of foreign economic activity, the gradual elimination of non-tariff restrictions, and encouragement of national exports. The Azerbaijan Republic agrees on the need for the structural reform and financial normalization of the United Nations. In this regard, I would like once again to draw the General Assembly’s attention to the problem of the assessment of fair contributions to the United Nations budget that will reflect the real capacity of States to pay. While we welcome the decision of principle to abolish the system of limits, we nevertheless consider that the long- windedness of this process is resulting in the deterioration of the financial situation of the newly independent States, including Azerbaijan, which is obliged, in order to clear its debts to the United Nations budget, to cut down on the already very meagre programmes of social support for the population, particularly refugees and displaced persons. The Government of Azerbaijan would also like to draw particular attention to the need for fair representation of the new independent States within the staff of the United Nations. While we are aware of the difficulties the Organization is now experiencing, we cannot accept a situation in which Azerbaijan is still not represented in the secretariats of the United Nations and its specialized agencies. The economic reforms carried out in Azerbaijan are aimed largely at improving the social situation of the population. However, the monthly income of a considerable portion of the population is below the subsistence level, given the persisting economic difficulties in a country with an economy in transition, which have been aggravated by the burden of providing the necessary assistance to the refugees and displaced persons. In such a situation, great importance attaches to special humanitarian and other forms of assistance from the United Nations, its specialized agencies and donor countries, including assistance for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of a number of regions of Azerbaijan that have suffered as a result of military action. While expressing the deep gratitude of the people of Azerbaijan for the assistance provided, we appeal to donor countries not to reduce its scale. I am confident that the United Nations will continue to do its best to act as a catalyst in the achievement of peaceful coexistence among States, and to reinforce the notion of the interdependence of national aspirations and the common welfare of humanity, thus creating conditions conducive to the political stability and sustainable economic development of States. The potential exists to reinforce and strengthen the work of the United Nations. We are increasingly witnessing the expansion of the Organization’s sphere of activity, when it goes beyond the bounds of the traditional concept of maintenance of international peace and security and tackles more diversified tasks. Activities such as electoral assistance, the provision of special 1 humanitarian assistance, human rights monitoring, assistance in nation-building and the creation of conditions for the sustainable development of States have begun to be associated around the world with the United Nations today. In concluding, I should like to recall the well-known maxim: “The best world is a world that belongs to all, and it becomes possible only through the efforts of all.” So let us unite our efforts for the sake of building such a world.  ﻿At the outset, I have the pleasure of extending to Mr. Razali Ismail and to his friendly country, Malaysia, my sincere congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. I wish him success in conducting the proceedings of the session and assure him of my delegation’s readiness to cooperate fully with him in achieving our Organization’s objectives and purposes. I also take this opportunity to express my thanks and appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his sincere efforts in guiding the proceedings of the previous session. It is also my pleasure to express my country’s gratitude and appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless and dedicated efforts to enhance the Organization’s role and standing 17 and to further the Charter’s objectives, especially those related to the maintenance of world peace and security. I hope that he will continue to hold this important position and to do this good work. This session convenes a year after the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, which was celebrated in the middle of a decade that has, from the start, witnessed rapid changes and diverse trends arising from the remnants of the cooperation and cold-war conflict that have marked half a century. The international community has dealt with the challenges this historic burden with a twofold response. First, it has sought to reform and develop the United Nations system so as to enable it to fulfil its role in the light of these changes. Secondly, it has made concerted efforts by convening world conferences to deal with critical issues relating to the future of mankind, such as the environment, development, population, trade, social development, women and children. Despite these efforts, which have continued for several years, this twofold response has proved woefully inadequate to alleviate the ills that have slowed the progress and political, economic and social development of the human race. Given the way the United Nations was established and the manner in which the international system has evolved since the 1940s, this phenomenon should not come as a surprise. The international community has been unable to absorb the intense impact of the major transformations of the present decade, which have relied heavily on the foundations and parameters of the current system of international relations. This means that the international community still needs some time — not necessarily a little — in which to fathom the similarities and diversities of national interests that influence the contemporary international political system. In order to be able to understand these political ramifications in their historical context, we must consider this phenomenon in the context of the flexibility and inflexibility that characterize the structure of the contemporary system of international relations. That is because the crisis afflicting current international political relations has been caused largely by the persistence of complex political and historical dilemmas that have continued to interact within a system of international relations based on visions formulated by the allies before the end of the Second World War. The Powers that are influential in the international arena presently appear to be reviewing the basis on which the present international system was founded, with a view to reconfiguring, rather than abolishing, current and future global imperatives. The underlying purpose of the system that emerged in the 1940s was fundamentally to address regional and international security problems in all their political and economic dimensions. It is a fact that the Allied Powers formulated their vision in the 1940s on the premise that security and stability in the regional context were basically associated with the creation of a number of international institutions, most notably the United Nations, its specialized agencies and the financial institutions that came into being as a result of agreements reached at a number of historic conferences. Despite this association and the new intellectual, political and economic trends brought about by the changes, the structural notions of the international system have not developed in tandem with the requirements of human development, as manifested by the communications revolution, the exchange of ideas, the flow of information and the technological applications that have influenced international relations in various ways. The historical concept of the link between national and regional security could serve as an appropriate starting point for a comprehensive review and redefinition of the question of security in all its aspects. In spite of the importance of the administrative and financial reform of the United Nations, its specialized agencies and other organs, the influential Powers have not given the question of collective security adequate attention with a view to developing ways and means to preserve international peace and security. The international community truly must expand the scope of the principle of collective security if States are to be free from the fear of strategic threats to their national and regional security. It is my conviction that the Security Council, as the sensory nerve-centre of the United Nations, in addressing the questions of world security, should be guided by certain collective security principles that could be activated in the current circumstances. Furthermore, it is possible to increase the use of practical preventive diplomacy to prevent the eruption of conflicts by containment and by speedily eliminating their causes. In view of the importance now being attached to the question of collective security, thought should be given to 18 the development of mechanisms for maintaining relations between the Security Council and regional organizations, in accordance with United Nations purposes and principles. This is relevant to some particularly important regions of the world, such as the Arabian Gulf region, which is afflicted by tensions that threaten the established fundamentals of the region’s security. To insure the region’s security and stability, it is imperative that relations among all States of the region be based on the principles of good-neighbourliness, mutual respect, non-interference in the internal affairs of others and recognition of every State’s national sovereignty. The territorial and border claims that are currently being made in the Arabian Gulf region, and are aimed at changing established and traditionally accepted boundaries, upset the security and stability of the region. We believe that the optimal and most judicious course for avoiding that prospect is to respect the status quo, refrain from any claims — total or partial — and to settle any consequential differences by peaceful means acceptable to the parties to the dispute. With regard to the situation between Iraq and Kuwait, the State of Bahrain, being keen to maintain security and stability in the Gulf region, stresses the need for Iraq to meet fully the requirements of international legality and fulfil its obligations under the relevant Security Council resolutions, including the release of Kuwaiti and other prisoners of war. While it asserts that care should be given to ensuring the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq, Bahrain welcomes the signing of the memorandum of understanding between Iraq and the United Nations and calls for the accelerated implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995) on the issue of “oil for food”, an essential step towards alleviating the suffering of the brotherly Iraqi people. On another matter, the continued occupation by the Islamic Republic of Iran of the three islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa — all of which belong to the United Arab Emirates — is a cause of concern for Bahrain and other member States of the Gulf Cooperation Council, in view of the serious ramifications for the security and stability of the region and good-neighbourly relations among its States. The State of Bahrain therefore calls upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond urgently to the appeals of the United Arab Emirates to solve the question of these islands through serious bilateral talks and other means available for the peaceful settlement of disputes through reconciliation among States. Economic security is also fundamental to a world of security and peace. In recent years, significant developments have taken place in the sphere of international economic relations as a result of the interdependence that has come to characterize the world economy, especially since the establishment of the World Trade Organization. Over the past four decades, the United Nations has addressed development problems, issued a number of declarations and formulated a number of strategies in this respect, but the desired results have been elusive. We believe that development challenges to any country can be met only by taking into account the global economic system as a solution that involves the development of a comprehensive framework combining international and local efforts, with a view to improving the performance of the economy in a favourable environment wherein local and regional circumstances and the priorities and special conditions of each individual State are taken into consideration. The topic of the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, held this year in South Africa, was the promotion of sustainable growth and development in the context of the globalization and liberalization of the world economy. This reflects a global interest in addressing the shortcomings of the world economy. In this connection, we would like to emphasize the importance of the role of the Organization in the enhancement of solidarity and interdependence for the sake of promoting development in all countries. With regard to the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, held at Istanbul this year, it is our hope that the principles, commitments and plan of action of the Conference will be implemented. It is also our hope that the World Food Summit, to be held in November in Rome, will make recommendations to ensure and enhance world food security. Environmental problems continue to be a cause of concern for the human race in view of their potential threat to our planet. Agenda 21, adopted at the United Nations Conference of Environment and Development, is a framework for the protection of the environment. Persuaded that collective action is important for the protection of the environment, the State of Bahrain has 19 paid special attention to the issue of the environment. Accordingly, an Emir’s decree approving Bahrain’s accession to the Convention on Biological Diversity and another on environmental law were issued. The latter establishes an environmental body that can exercise all authorities with respect to environmental planning and policies and the supervision of their implementation. The third element, in our view, is social security, without which societies would be unable to sustain human progress or protect national security. As far as the people are concerned, it is an important precondition for the achievement and preservation of peace and security within and among States. This fact was stressed by the World Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen last year. Responsibility for social development is based on two pivotal factors: national responsibility and collective commitment, as reflected in the combined efforts of the international community. In this connection, it must be mentioned that the ability of societies to effect social development is fundamentally connected to the objectives of economic progress and comprehensive development in all their human dimensions. Any international commitment to preserve the stability and security of societies within the framework of economic and social development should take into consideration the cultural content of social development and the various national factors. The State of Bahrain — in the light of its conviction that peace in the region is a strategic alternative that must inevitably be based on justice, the restoration of rights and the prevalence of security — follows closely and with deep concern the new developments in the Middle East peace process. Peace is the only course that can lead to reconstruction, prosperity and the well-being of the peoples of the region. It can end the cycle of violence and war which the region has suffered for so long. The progress achieved in the context of the Madrid Conference, whose underlying principles were the achievement of a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in accordance with international legality and the principle of “land for peace”, should continue without regression. We must build on it. The State of Bahrain views with deep concern the serious events that have taken place in the past few days as a result of the policies of the present Israeli Government. These are manifest in its perpetuation of the occupation and its refusal to honour the agreements made and to withdraw from occupied Arab territories in Palestine, the Syrian Golan Heights and southern Lebanon, as provided for in General Assembly and Security Council resolutions, in particular resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), as well as in the Madrid terms of reference, whose underlying principle is “land for peace”. We call upon the international community, in particular the two sponsors of the peace process, and the States of the European Community to persuade Israel to end its repressive practices against the Palestinian people and to resume negotiations on the final status of the Palestinian territories in accordance with the agreements concluded between the two parties. They should also stress the necessity of resuming negotiations on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks. These negotiations should aim at achieving just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the region and at insuring the attainment by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights. These include their right to establish their own independent State, with Jerusalem as its capital, and the complete withdrawal of Israel from all Arab territories, including the occupied Syrian Golan Heights up to the boundaries of 4 June 1967 and occupied southern Lebanon. Without doubt, in violating the principles upon which the peace process is based, reneging on the agreements and commitments reached within the framework of this process and procrastinating in the implementation thereof, Israel will drastically set back the peace process and lead the region back into a new cycle of tension and violence. It is regrettable that Israel continues periodically to act repressively against the Palestinian people and repeatedly to violate the sanctity of Islamic holy places. We denounce the Israeli authorities’ opening of a tunnel beneath Islamic archaeological sites. This is calculated to judaize and efface the Islamic features of the occupied Palestinian territories. This act has caused indignation and anger in the occupied Palestinian territories in particular and in the Islamic world in general. It is a hostile act directed against the holy Islamic sites and a provocation against the sentiments of Arabs and Muslims. In condemning Israeli practices and repressive actions, which have resulted in scores of deaths and hundreds of injuries, we demand that Israel end these practices and forswear its plans to change the Arab and Islamic character of the city of Jerusalem or to violate the sanctity of the Holy Al-Aqsa Mosque. We call upon the international community to urge and pressure the Israeli 0 Government to renounce political policies of expansion and settlement in Arab territories and to comply with the requirements of peace and security in the region. We consider the conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty to be one of the most important issues in the field of disarmament. We look forward to the day when we can feel secure because all nuclear tests have been ended and all nuclear weapons eliminated. Bahrain therefore signed the Treaty last week because it considers it a step in the right direction of eliminating these weapons. The elimination of all weapons of mass destruction is bound to enhance confidence and security at both the international and regional levels. We have supported the initiatives seeking to make the Middle East, including the Arabian Gulf region, a zone free of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. Bahrain has done so in the deep conviction that the security and stability of the region should be maintained, that the region should be saved from the calamity of these weapons of mass destruction and that the States of the region should be able to implement development projects and raise the standard of living of their peoples. In this connection, I would like to applaud the signing of the Pelindaba Treaty in Cairo on 11 April 1996, which established Africa as a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone. Terrorism in all forms is a global phenomenon whose threat today is not confined to a particular people or region, but endangers security and peace in numerous countries. Bahrain has repeatedly denounced and deplored this dangerous phenomenon in more than one international forum. Its eradication requires cooperation and the coordination of efforts. Bahrain now calls for concerted efforts for the implementation of the Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism, adopted at the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly. It also calls for cooperation in the identification of terrorist activities, their prosecution, the adoption of deterrent measures and preventing terrorist organizations from using the territories, information media and facilities available by virtue of the respect given to civil liberties in certain countries, in order to mount hostile activities against other countries. The State of Bahrain would like to express its gratitude and appreciation to the sisterly and friendly States that lent their support at a time when it was the target of foreign-aided terrorist acts aimed at disturbing the security and stability enjoyed by our State and other Arabian Gulf States. The events witnessed in the State of Bahrain and other States in the region and throughout the world demonstrate the extent of the danger of terrorism and how far the terrorist elements can go in manipulating laws and international human-rights principles to serve their own subversive and terrorist ends. The fighting in Somalia and Afghanistan has brought devastation and destruction to the peoples of the two countries. With a view to sparing the lives of innocent people, we appeal anew to all parties to the conflict in each of the two Islamic countries to embark on a serious dialogue to reach a political settlement of their differences. We welcome the outcome of the elections that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina within the framework of the Peace Agreement signed in Paris as a result of negotiations held in Dayton in 1995. We support all efforts to restore peace and stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina, urge respect for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of that country and emphasize the necessity of economic reconstruction and rehabilitation as a means to buttress the peace process. With regard to the question of Cyprus, we call upon the United Nations to continue its contacts with the parties concerned so that direct talks can be resumed with a view to reaching a final settlement. The question of the development and reform of the United Nations is in the forefront of issues that have captured the attention of Member States. Extensive discussions on this matter have taken place over the past few years, especially in relation to the question of equitable representation on the Security Council. It is our view that the reform of the Security Council is not only a matter of institutional dimensions and ramifications, but that it also constitutes a challenge that the international community should address thoughtfully. The State of Bahrain has consistently supported the Security Council and its role in and contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security. It has also joined the international community in the implementation of resolutions relevant to international legality and related commitments. Bahrain is the host country for the Field Office of the Special Commission established under Security Council resolution 687 (1991) and has provided the Office with all the facilities needed for the successful performance of its duties. In this 1 respect, the State of Bahrain wishes to recall with appreciation the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization, submitted to the General Assembly at its current session, in which he praises the support given by the Government of Bahrain to the activities and work of the Office. Since it joined this Organization, the State of Bahrain has always adhered to the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations and therefore looks forward to playing a more active role in this regard. The nomination of Bahrain to Security Council membership for the period 1998-1999 — which received the unanimous endorsement of the Group of Asian States, the League of Arab States and the Gulf Cooperation Council and the support of other Member States — is a confirmation of its standing as a peace-loving State and an indication that it wishes to play a more active role in the maintenance of world peace and security. The characteristic distinction of the late twentieth century is that relations among nations are based on interrelated, mutual and diverse interests in various political, economic and social fields. This interrelatedness of interests has formed a sort of common culture among nations and has created a favourable climate for the exchange of ideas and the tools of knowledge, thus enabling cultural and intellectual interaction among peoples of the world and enhancing a deeper understanding of the bases of world peace and security, an objective which the United Nations has sought to achieve over the past five decades. In view of this fact, it behooves us to lend the Organization support and encouragement so that it may be able to play its role in a civilized world and carry out its noble tasks of ensuring the achievement of world security, prosperity and peace. ﻿The Burundi delegation, which I have the honour of leading at the current session of this General Assembly, would like to begin by taking this opportunity to present the friendly greetings of the Government and people of Burundi. Burundi attaches overwhelming importance to the noble ideals of justice, peace and security which the United Nations has defended and pursued. This is why, even during the acute crisis that has rocked our country these past three years, we have always tried to participate as actively as possible in these proceedings. We offer well- deserved thanks for the Organization’s tireless efforts to put an end to the fratricidal war we have been experiencing since 21 October 1993. Our delegation welcomes the fitting choice of a worthy son of Malaysia to act as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly of our Organization. We are convinced that his intellectual and moral qualities, together with his thorough knowledge of the concerns of the world today, are undeniable assets in ensuring the success of our work. He can count on the full support and readiness of my country, which has a Vice-President on the Bureau, and we will make our modest contribution to ensuring the success of the work of the President. We also wish to pay tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for the competence and clear-sightedness with which he conducted the proceedings of the previous session, when the United Nations was commemorating its fiftieth anniversary. Finally, we wish to express our appreciation for the role that His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations, has played throughout the world during his term of office to promote peace, cooperation and development. We particularly remember the important appeal for peace and national reconciliation he addressed to the people of Burundi and Africa during his visit to Bujumbura in July 1995. Despite the crisis in my country, we believe that this message will finally be heeded by those who opted for violence to satisfy their ambitions. As members know, the fifty-first session of the General Assembly is taking place at a time when my country, Burundi, is suffering the deepest crisis of its history. The end of the cold war certainly made it possible for the international community to free itself from the ideological shackles and other constraints imposed on it by East-West antagonisms. The United Nations has thus been able to focus on its fundamental objectives and effectively respond to some of the problems the rivalry between super-Powers had long made it impossible to solve. However, we cannot but note, not without bitterness, that in the post-cold-war period, new, more complex conflicts have broken out, mostly within countries, that have caused serious humanitarian problems. That, unfortunately, is the case in my country. For three years, Burundi has been in the grip of widespread massacres and acts of genocide. Since October 1993, Burundi has been increasingly mired in a tragedy from which it seems unable to escape. The consensus Government established in October 1994 in the context of implementation of the Convention on Governance of 10 September 1994, after lengthy negotiations among political parties, has been characterized by suspicion and a lack of trust at the highest echelons of State and a serious lack of will to restore peace. The complicity of the previous administration with armed groups, massive human rights violations, duplicity at the top of the State administration and the absence of leadership have led to denunciation of the Convention on Governance and a breakdown in institutions. With a view to avoiding implosion in the face of the threat of renewed genocide, and lacking a credible alternative, the active forces of the nation requested His Excellency President Buyoya to take on the burden of responsibility of putting Burundi back on track. The new administration has decided that its priority is to put an end to massacres and slaughter, to restore peace and security for all, to end impunity, to reintegrate displaced persons and reconstruct the country. The government of public salvation was inaugurated on 2 August 1996. This is a broad-based team that 3 reflects the various ethnic components and political trends. All regions of the country have been represented. The Government wants to promote solidarity and unity to ensure the success of its transitional programme, which will last three years. Its plan of action was made public recently by the Prime Minister, His Excellency Mr. Pascal Firmin Ndimira. Its aim is to make good the commitment entered into by the Head of State to bring Burundi back to the path of peace, security and prosperity by means of dialogue and national debate. The changes in Burundi since 25 July 1996 have been welcomed by the population of Burundi as a rescue operation. The messages of support from all quarters and the spontaneous demonstrations throughout the country were visible signs of the support of the people of Burundi for the new administration, which has come to the assistance of a country that was on the brink. However, some countries, particularly our neighbours, were slow to realize the need, if we were to avoid genocide in Burundi and maintain the sovereignty of the country, to establish an administration that would bring people together in the quest for security, not of one ethnic group to the detriment of others, but of all. This was therefore not an attempt to undermine democracy, as some claim. The Government wants, instead, to end the massacre of innocent populations battling with the various armed factions within the country and outside, from the capital to the heart of Burundi, to restore peace and security for all and create conditions conducive to comprehensive democratization based on national realities. The efforts being undertaken by the new administration to restore peace and organize dialogue and national debate have been hampered by the economic sanctions against Burundi. I am duty-bound to draw the attention of representatives here to the damaging effects of the economic blockade imposed on my country at the Second Arusha Regional Summit on Burundi on 31 July 1996. The international community must not, one day, say that it did not know. The countries of our subregion were more than anyone else aware of the chaotic and complicated situation in Burundi before 25 July 1996. They also knew of the almost total institutional paralysis as a result of the crisis. Every day they see my country’s continuous struggle to restore peace and security despite the host of difficulties before us. We therefore see the embargo imposed on Burundi as unfriendly, unjust and illegal. It violates international public law and the international accords and conventions that our countries have ratified. The embargo, which is really a total economic blockade against my country, constitutes a dangerous precedent, violating Article 1, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the United Nations regarding the right of peoples to self-determination and the sovereignty and equality of States. This blockade flouts the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other States as stipulated in Article III, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the Organization of African Unity and the Declaration of 24 October 1970 adopted by the General Assembly on the duty of States to refrain from interfering in the domestic affairs of other States. The nature of the sanctions adopted flies in the face of the principle of the non-use of force and the peaceful settlement of international disputes in accordance with the Declaration of 24 October 1970 adopted by the General Assembly. We know that States are prohibited from using force against another State, even in the case of damages caused by the latter. In the case of Burundi, there was no damage to any of our neighbours. However, our access to the sea, our right of transit and our freedom of trade have been taken away. The illegality of the embargo is obvious, since international and regional treaties recognizing Member States’ freedom of transit have been violated. These instruments include the Marrakesh Agreement establishing the World Trade Organization, the treaty on the Common Market of Eastern and Southern Africa, the Convention on Transit Trade of Land-Locked States, not to mention the charters and agreements of neighbouring countries, such as the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries and the preferential trade area. What is worse — and we would emphasize this here before the General Assembly — the sanctions imposed are hindering the action of our Government, weakening the chances for peace and working in favour of the extremist militias and armed bands, which feel encouraged by them. At this very moment, the latter are using the embargo to intensify their acts of violence and destruction in the country. The embargo imposed on Burundi has had catastrophic consequences on people who, as a result, find 4 themselves deprived of urgently needed medications, vaccines, diagnostic materials and surgical instruments. Today, children, women and the elderly are dying. The vaccination rate, which, because of three years of war, has fallen from 80 per cent to 30 per cent among children under five years of age, may soon reach zero if nothing is done to improve the situation in the meantime. That will necessarily have an impact on the most vulnerable members of the population. Further, the population of Burundi is at risk of widespread famine, which will have unfortunate consequences for the inhabitants of neighbouring countries. It will have a greater impact on the most vulnerable, namely, displaced persons, the homeless and the repatriated, which latter group has already been living for three years now in inhuman conditions. Nearly 80 per cent of them are children, women and the elderly. Lastly, owing to lack of fuel and non-availability of educational materials, a large number of pupils and students may leave school. The drop-out rate is already 18 per cent for secondary education, 21 per cent for technical training and 20 per cent for university studies. As for the economic aspects of the embargo, I would point out that Burundi lives essentially on agriculture and animal husbandry. There will be a sharp decline in our harvest if fertilizers, concentrates and veterinary pharmaceuticals continue to be held by embargo in the ports of neighbouring countries. The result will obviously be widespread famine. The few industries still operating are gradually shutting down owing to lack of raw materials. State revenues are at a dangerously low level because of our inability to export and import. That will lead to unemployment or inability to pay workers in both the public and private sectors and foment social unrest that will increase insecurity and destabilize the country. Overall, the situation will favour the retaking of territory and strengthen the armed actions of rebel groups and other outlaw bands against the peaceful population, with the risk of widespread civil war. This apocalyptic prospect can and must be avoided. The neighbouring countries behind the embargo had demanded that the new regime end its suspension of the National Assembly and political parties and commit itself to dialogue with the armed groups, points that are priorities of the new regime’s programme made public on 25 July 1996. Decree Number 100-023 of 13 September 1996 has just reinstated Parliament, the political parties and political associations. Furthermore, the Government of Burundi has just reiterated its solemn commitment to engage in dialogue and to discuss all the country’s fundamental questions with all interested political partners, including armed groups. We renew that commitment here before the Assembly. That measure, which is already a priority of the new regime, was the latest recommendation of the Arusha Summit Meeting on 31 July 1996. Now that my Government has responded positively and promptly to the conditions fixed by its neighbours, we invite them to take all appropriate steps to lift the embargo immediately so as to alleviate the indescribable suffering of the people of Burundi and to enable dialogue — which is also hindered by the embargo — to take place by opening lines of communication, both on the ground and in the air, and by fulfilling their commitments. My country, Burundi, seeks to play an active and constructive role in the development of peaceful, friendly and mutually beneficial relations with countries of the region and the rest of the world. In return, we require of our partners that they refrain from threat or use of force or from any other action incompatible with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. Because of the war and the embargo, my country continues to suffer from a very critical economic situation. It is land-locked and therefore must rely on its neighbours for the transit of its exports and imports. For that reason, we attach great importance to the policy of good-neighbourliness and non-interference in the internal affairs of other States. My Government is perfectly well aware of the concerns of the international community over the crisis in Burundi. We express our gratitude to all our bilateral and multilateral partners that have given us their support, solidarity and understanding in this difficult period. However, we remain convinced that the imposition of conditions about the pace and the way to resolve the current conflict cannot benefit the people of Burundi. We are determined to find lasting and definitive solutions to the evil that is eroding Burundi, but such complex problems cannot be resolved by precipitate action or by holding a knife to our throats. 5 The political situation in the Great Lakes region continues to be cause for concern. This geographical area holds the sad world record for number of refugees. Following the genocide carried out in Rwanda in April 1994, several hundreds of thousands of persons sought asylum in neighbouring countries, particularly in Zaire and Tanzania. Following the crisis of October 1993, those countries also contained tens of thousands of Burundi’s citizens, who swelled the ranks of those gone into exile. In February 1995 an international Conference about this thorny question was held in Bujumbura, under the auspices of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees. The decisions and recommendations made at that time have remained virtually a dead letter. However, we have noted the voluntary and peaceful repatriation of a large number of Rwandan refugees who had sought asylum in Burundi. The OAU and the United Nations, through the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, should step up their initiatives designed to encourage all persons who wish to return to their countries once the conditions of peace and security have been met. The authorities of the countries concerned must, of course, play a primary role. The Government of Burundi, for its part, is prepared to welcome at any time all of our nationals who wish to return to their respective homes. To that end, it is now organizing and doing all it can to bring about the rapid restoration of a climate of peace, understanding and national reconciliation. We encourage all efforts being made by neighbouring countries, by friendly countries, the Organization of African Unity, the European Union and the United Nations on behalf of this troubled region and to return the situation as a whole to normal. At the same time, we draw the attention of the international community to other scourges and other phenomena that are rife in this geographical area. I am referring to the trafficking in and proliferation of weapons and the training of militias and armed groups that foment terrorism and threaten the security of our fellow citizens from certain neighbouring countries. We note the spread of the ideology of genocide, hatred, violence and marginalization made manifest in intolerance and ethnic fundamentalism. The pernicious ideas propagated by the champions of those ideologies will, in the long term, generate social upheavals with political and ethnic roots that will in turn cause enormous human and material damage. The genocide in Rwanda, the massacres perpetrated in Burundi since the October 1993 crisis, the killings we have witnessed in South Kivu, in particular in the Massissi region and very recently in the region of Uvira, are the best example of this threat to peace and security in our subregion. The international community must mobilize to combat such inhuman and degrading acts, whose philosophy is so strangely reminiscent of notorious Hitlerite nazism. With regard to the other conflicts with which Africa is beset, the Government of Burundi welcomes the positive developments in the situation in Somalia and in Liberia. It appreciates the decisive role played by the OAU, the United Nations and subregional organizations in helping to sort out differences and commit the parties to disputes to a process of peace and reconciliation. In that connection, my Government welcomes the establishment by the OAU of a Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. African leaders have thereby demonstrated their determination to become more involved in solving problems on their own continent. We take this opportunity to express our thanks to the European Union, the United Nations and other bilateral partners for the political, material and financial support given that initiative. To that end, Burundi is convinced of the overriding importance of preventive diplomacy and the peaceful settlement of disputes through dialogue and negotiation. The United Nations has two main priorities, namely, the Agenda for Peace and the Agenda for Development. Their success entails a determined struggle against terrorism and organized crime as well as the elimination of the nuclear threat. Burundi therefore supports the organization of an international criminal tribunal. Burundi’s representative to the United Nations has just signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. My Government warmly welcomes that noble decision by the General Assembly of our Organization. It is a signally important step towards the establishment of a world of peace free from the threat of meaningless death caused by man himself. The Government of Burundi is also concerned about other contemporary scourges, such as the trafficking in 6 and the distribution and consumption of drugs and other psychotropic substances. They are a grave danger, especially for our young people who are our future. Apart from their deleterious effects on health, they are a formidable weapon in the hands of the supporters of international terrorism. For that reason, we wholeheartedly support efforts being made within the framework of international cooperation to eradicate that disaster confronting humanity. We emphasize this fact, for armed groups that are organized to rob, rape, burn and kill sate themselves with these harmful substances to kill in cold blood, without remorse and without pity. Several delegations have recognized the fact that many African Governments are increasingly committed to shouldering their responsibilities for the development of their continent. It has been noted, in particular, that over the past two years the average growth rate in gross domestic product has reached 5 per cent. Those efforts deserve encouragement. Nevertheless, the burden of external debt continues to weigh heavily on many of our countries and often undermines their development efforts. That is why the Government of Burundi pleads for the substantial easing of external debt in order to give every chance to programmes aimed at improving the living standard of our people. I should like to join other eminent heads of delegation who have spoken earlier in announcing that my Government shares the hope that our Organization will be reformed and made into an efficient and effective instrument better able to respond to the purposes and principles assigned it by its founding fathers. The United Nations must adapt its structures and working methods to the current and future concerns of our planet and all humankind. We view with special attention the ongoing discussions on restructuring the Security Council to allow for more equitable representation in that body, to increase its membership and to achieve its general democratization. Given their political and economic advantages, Germany and Japan have legitimate aspirations for permanent seats in the Security Council, as does Italy. Since none of the proposals before us commands general support, it is just as legitimate to take into account the cogent suggestion put forward by Italy for a possible rotation of permanent seats among States of respective regions. We believe that Africa, Asia and Latin America should have at least two permanent seats per region in that lofty, decision-making body of the Organization. My country, Burundi, wishes to reaffirm its total commitment to and unswerving support for the noble ideas upheld by the Organization. We hope that the United Nations will continue to move forward in the struggle against racism, intolerance, xenophobia, terrorism and child prostitution. It is our ardent desire to see this vast home of mankind promote and further promulgate the values of peace, freedom and mutual respect and fraternity among men in order to stave off for all time the spectre of war, hunger and famine in the world, through a more generous and more committed international cooperation. All countries of the world, rich and poor, small and large, are urged to join forces to meet that challenge: the challenge of building a better future in a more just, more peaceful, more human world.﻿My delegation offers its warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at what will certainly be a crucial session. We have come to know you over the years, and have never failed to admire and appreciate your relentless activism, plain-speaking and valuable contributions. We have no doubt that your unique experience, coupled with your keen awareness of the issues on which we will have to deliberate, augur well for a most productive session. We also wish to record our gratitude to Mr. Freitas do Amaral, the outgoing President, for his direction and focused leadership during the historic fiftieth anniversary session. Much of the pace and progress in United Nations reform efforts and activities this year are largely due to his commitment to achieving a meaningful and balanced outcome on this difficult issue. We would also like to commend the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the perseverance and dedication with which he has undertaken his duties. Saddled as it is with diminishing resources and increasing uncertainty regarding its role and mandate, the United Nations is going through trying times. The Secretary- General, however, has, against all odds, maintained the continuity and functioning of the Secretariat, tackling the daily challenges facing mankind. My delegation, in conformity with the decision and recommendation of the League of Arab States and the Organization of African Unity, supports the re-election bid of the Secretary-General for another term in order to enable him to accomplish the objectives of his mission. Fifty years ago, with great energy, grand vision and a considerable measure of optimism, the world embarked upon a high-minded journey to end the scourge of war, eliminate poverty and create a world of freedom and justice for all. Much has been accomplished, and it cannot be denied that humankind now has the power and resources to achieve the goals we set ourselves. Yet too many dreams remain shattered, too much potential remains unfulfilled, and too many conflicts remain in too many parts of the globe. The United Nations is bracing itself for more turbulent times ahead, with bankruptcy on the horizon as it confronts the threat to either “reform or perish”. Remarkably, there is a placid air of “business as usual” pervading this session of the General Assembly — a dream state in which all is well and normal. Given the dire predicament threatening the existence of this Organization, does this reveal a measure of resignation? Is this the beginning of the end of the enthusiastic hope for a new world order with which this decade began? Does this explain why so many opportunities to address the pressing problems of our day have not been realized? While politically the world might be in a state of flux and transition, economically, however, it has enjoyed an unprecedented level of output — enough for every man, woman and child on this planet to enjoy a happy and secure life. The vast majority of the people of the world, however, have received minimal benefit. The facts are foreboding. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) informs us that over the last decade income levels in some 70 developing countries were lower than in the 1960s or 1970s. The Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme tellingly reminds us that the belief that the developing world is doing very much better is one of the great myths of the present. In fact, three fifths of the world’s population live in poverty, millions are forced to migrate every year, and 15 per cent suffer from chronic hunger and malnutrition. All this is taking place while world food production and reserves are declining in the face of population growth. As most of us realize, much of this stagnation is taking place in Africa. For all the oft-cited reasons — historical, colonial or contemporary — Africa has been lagging behind on the march to self-sustaining growth. Consequently, 50 per cent of its peoples live in poverty, with a quality of life that is not expected to improve during this decade. While the increasing flow of negative statistics on Africa tends to mask the substantial efforts for reform, pluralization and structural adjustment that are taking place in many countries on the continent, for most people the situation is life- threatening. There are, however, a few hopeful signs that the extent of Africa’s predicament has begun to draw the critical attention it needs from the international community. In particular, the 10-year United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa, launched in March by the Secretary-General, deserves a special mention. Although it does not represent new funding so much as the more efficient use of available resources, it should prove useful. Together with this initiative, the formal endorsement last week by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, during their annual meeting in Washington, of a plan to substantially reduce the debt burden of the world’s poorest and most heavily indebted nations, most of which are in Africa, is very encouraging. If current economic reform measures are to have the desired impact, debt relief is crucial, particularly in reversing Africa’s increasing marginalization. But problems of degradation, poverty and underdevelopment are hardly unique to Africa; they are found in every corner of the world, and must be seriously addressed if we are to rectify the frightening pace of global polarization, both within and between countries. According to the Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme, we are creating a planet that, increasingly, is not one world but two. For all these reasons, the World Food Summit in Rome next month, and the designation of the decade 1997-2006 as the first United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty will provide the international community with an opportunity to renew its commitment realistically to face those twin scourges of humankind. The conventional wisdom of today argues that the basic remedy for underdevelopment lies in embracing free and open market economies, stimulated by private capital. To this end, the bulk of the world is engaged in restructuring to fit this mould. But with the dramatic shrinkage of the resources needed for transitional development — particularly those for official development assistance — self-sufficiency has become an almost impossible task. Compounding this dilemma, total private investment has quadrupled since 1990, but only in ways that bypass most developing countries and fail to address their problems. The world remains laden with conflicts. It has been said that as many as 25 complex emergencies now threaten tens of millions of people worldwide every year, that the convulsions are becoming larger, with wider repercussions, and that this new generation of crises will continue until their underlying causes are properly addressed. Cold-war identities have lost relevance, and old identities and animosities have resurfaced. Many nation States have lost considerable cohesion and are being buffeted by external pressures and strains within. The consequent void of economic and political instability has provided an opening for many unscrupulous, self- proclaimed “leaders” who, hungry for power, are reigniting the myths, latent prejudices, hatreds and fears lying in the dark recesses of so many minds. Employing violence, propaganda and intimidation, such as we have seen in Bosnia, Somalia, Cambodia and elsewhere, they have successfully pitted peoples against peoples. The predictable result has been an explosion in the number of armed conflicts, accompanied by widespread devastation, both human and physical, gross violations of human rights, and “ethnic cleansing”. This is a situation 2 increasingly in need of concerted international action and a strong, focused and impartial United Nations. The United Nations has, indeed, responded positively in many instances. Cambodia and Mozambique are cases in point. Some crises, however, have proved intractable, invariably because of the nature of mandates or the political will of Member States, whose changing views and policies have affected the prospects for early resolution. Had the international community acted with dispatch in crisis situations, countless lives could have been saved and scarce resources conserved by forcing the belligerents to disarm unconditionally and to respect the rule of law. The widespread and indiscriminate use of anti- personnel mines in many conflict situations has been consistently devastating. We therefore welcome the Security Council statement of 30 August 1996 indicating the high priority being given to demining. The effectiveness of peacekeeping will be greatly enhanced by making demining an integral part of it. Sadly, however, these commendable measures will continue to fall short of what is required unless the international community imposes a moratorium, if not a total ban, on the manufacture and deployment of such devices. In the same vein, we hope that the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty will provide an impetus to increased international cooperation, in addition to marking a first viable step towards the total elimination of weapons of mass destruction. The problems, conflicts and challenges of development and international cooperation are growing in complexity. Not surprisingly, therefore, as so many have noted, the United Nations system needs to be renewed and enabled to respond to these simultaneous challenges. Over the past two years, and particularly in the first half of this year, a number of High-level Open-ended Working Groups of the General Assembly have extensively explored and deliberated on issues of reform as they impinge upon the financial situation, the enlargement, composition and transparency of the Security Council, and the Secretariat and General Assembly. Considerable time, energy and resources have been expended in these efforts. However, differences persist among nations, reflecting divergent national policies, views and interests. As might be expected, a proliferation of ideas and positions is emerging from individual countries, including, to name just a few, the United States, Italy, Belize and Malaysia, which have produced proposals and statements of position. Regional groups, including those in Africa, and alliances and coalitions, including the Non-Aligned Movement, have their own positions. All of them are jockeying for position so as to advance and strengthen their individual or collective interests. The stalemate over Security Council reform is far from over and remains the toughest problem. The real stumbling block is the number and composition of the new permanent membership, which must include developing countries from all parts of the world, including Africa, Asia and Latin America. We must also recognize that constructive participation in the Council by many smaller States has demonstrated that the possession of large economies and large populations cannot be the exclusive criteria for permanent membership. The tense circumstances persisting in a number of States in the Great Lakes region of Africa is a cause of concern to my country. This is true of Rwanda, where bloated prisons, camps swollen with refugees and the slow pace of the judicial process are just a few of the problems that continue to plague that country. The International Tribunal for Rwanda has begun to function, but with limited manpower and financial resources. The Tribunal must be seen to function effectively, as the message it sends is crucial to resolving the Rwandan problem. In neighbouring Burundi, the international community remains haunted by the fear of a re-enactment of the horrors that took place in Rwanda over two years ago, where tens of thousands were massacred. There has already been a frightful human toll in Burundi since the army murdered the first democratically elected President in 1993, marking the advent of instability and violence. Should the army — the de facto head of State and supreme authority since 1993 — remain unprepared to accept the authority of a democratically elected civilian government, we may have a recipe for uncontrolled bloodshed. That is the real problem confronting the international community in resolving the Burundi debacle. Djibouti fully supports the efforts of the countries in the region in imposing sanctions, whose objective is to compel the new regime in Bujumbura to restore constitutional order and legality and to hand over power to a legitimately elected government. With the explosion of violence in the territories occupied by Israel, we have witnessed an alarming deterioration in prospects for peace in the Middle East. The Israeli act of opening a tunnel under one of Islam’s holiest shrines, the Al-Aqsa Mosque in East Jerusalem, was yet another example of disrespect for, as well as 3 defiance of, international opinion. But more importantly, it was yet another example of intransigent rule over East Jerusalem. It is difficult to deny that the ultimate Israeli aim is to change the ground rules — in effect, unilaterally to redefine the peace process, thereby rolling back the clock and reversing years of hard work, concessions, sacrifice and good faith on the part of the previous Israeli Government, the Palestinians, the Arabs, and the international community. It is also disturbing that, while the world is watching, Israel should decide openly to pursue a policy of creating “facts on the ground” in total disregard of the principles established in Oslo, the Washington peace agreement and United Nations resolutions, all of which emphasize the return of occupied land in exchange for peace. It is little wonder that the current talks between Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Arafat, which began last week in Washington, have neither produced nor resolved anything. What we see instead are Israeli promises or commitments to keep talking to the Palestinians. But there has been neither an action nor a promise to implement what had already been agreed upon, or even to contemplate the start of final status negotiations. The depth of Arab disillusionment is obvious. The hard line policies pursued by the new Government are simply fuelling fires of hatred and violence. Djibouti hopes that reason will prevail, and calls on key countries and regions to continue providing the necessary direction, leadership and reassurances for a return to previous commitments. Having come so far and sacrificed so much, and with so much at stake, we must not allow the peace process to drift or wither away. In this context, we also wish to underscore the urgent call of the Arab Summit in Cairo in June for Israel to resume the peace process within the framework of the Madrid Conference, in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). We share the anxiety in the Gulf region about the state of the three islands of the United Arab Emirates that have been occupied by Iran, and we hope that this long-standing problem will be resolved peacefully. Somalia continues to exist in a cycle of misery and political impasse, lacking structures, an economy, a stable civil society or legitimate authority. More disturbing, there is neither peace nor war, and clashes continue unabated. Mogadishu and its infamous warlords remain the maelstrom of Somalia. Despite almost five years of incessant fighting, there are no signs of compromise or reconciliation. The lust for power of a few has resulted in disaster for the whole country, whose condition is now a virtual replica of what it was in the nineteenth century. There is simply nowhere to lay the blame for Somalia’s wretched state except on the warlords and their inability to reason and reach agreement. This myopic vision of leadership seems unlikely to change until one faction prevails, and that may take years. Meanwhile, the people suffer, and the world is watching. Somalia, we must conclude, remains a festering tragedy, a piece of unfinished business for the international community, an international embarrassment, and a permanent problem. It will not go away simply because we refuse to address it, and it will certainly continue to be an indelible blemish on the Charter of the United Nations. The sooner we consider the far-reaching implications of the situation of this failed State, which is absent from this Hall, the better it will be for the Somali people and the international community. Somalia is simply consumed by an interminable turmoil from which it cannot free itself. It needs help — our help. With the holding of elections, the saga of Bosnia has reached a decisive juncture. The problem facing the international community is the attempts to obstruct the normalization process through the use of violence and intimidation, which increase the pressure for secession. However, one issue that is creating tremendous frustration and confusion is the reluctance of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to apprehend the prime Bosnian Serb war crime suspects — Karadžic´ and Mladic´ — who are accused of instigating, planning and ordering the genocide and “ethnic cleansing” in Bosnia. To date, 74 arrest warrants have been issued for suspected war criminals, but only eight people are in custody. This fact, perhaps, reflects a political decision; but it is a paradoxical one whose effects may be with us in Bosnia and beyond for a long time. In conclusion, I wish to refer to an issue relating to my own part of the world. Our corner of the globe, the Horn of Africa, seems to be passing through a period of renewed optimism and revival. This must be sustained. With the regional economy slowly but steadily recovering from the effects of past turmoil, the need for enhanced cooperation cannot be overemphasized. Djibouti is umbilically linked to the pulse of its neighbours and cannot, therefore, be indifferent to their economic and trade realities. 4 The conflicts and civil strife that have plagued the Horn of Africa in the past two decades have had a devastating effect on our economic and social life. This can be readily observed in the unacceptable number of displaced persons and refugees in my small country, for whom our continued commitment to care is proving to be economically and socially overwhelming, if not disastrous. Djibouti’s approach to regional affairs is based on mutual respect, moderation and cooperation. We believe that all the countries in the Horn of Africa must together seek to resolve the common problems of poverty, conflict and underdevelopment, bilaterally and within the framework of the Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD), whose revitalization is crucial. Djibouti is in the midst of economic restructuring and institutional reforms. Given the demobilization process that is now under way, we require generous assistance from the international donor community. Towards this end, we are planning to organize a round table early next year, under the aegis of the UNDP and the Bretton Woods institutions, to address these problems and the accumulated effects of regional instability. We have made a valiant effort, and we remain convinced that the donor community will, for its part, work with us in order to surmount our multiple challenges and create a better future for our citizens.  ﻿Perhaps the term “globalization”, which occurs so frequently in so many decisions nowadays, best describes the international system which prevails in the present decade and which, under the influence of a growing and close interdependence, will extend into the twenty-first century. Admittedly, the term is not a precise one that sums up the broad and complex range of supranational phenomena that have been emerging since 1989, the year that symbolizes the end of the cold war. It is undoubtedly a term that is indicative of the fact that today the cause-and-effect relationship in the economic, political and even the cultural sphere transcends traditional national borders more than ever. Interdependence is today more pronounced than ever before in history: markets, capital flows, research and production do not coincide with the political map. The industrial assembly lines of advanced technology ignore national borders, often making it difficult to determine the origin of a finished product, since its components come from such diverse sources. The political boundaries of States are no longer boundaries of economic production and processes. The network of multinational corporations has expanded to the extent that transactions between their subsidiaries account for one quarter of world trade. In the face of the fluctuation and volatility of international electronic transactions, the central banks of the most developed countries already have difficulty controlling the exchange rates of their currencies or the level of interest rates. The recent establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO) is seen as the institutional culmination of this global trend towards liberalization of trade in goods and services and as a force conducive to interdependence. Accordingly, globalization, despite the various rates at which it operates in different parts of the world — from the slow, deliberate pace at which it proceeds in countries with agrarian economies to the dizzying rapidity of its progress in those possessing advanced technologies — appears to be the distinguishing mark of 4 the post-cold-war era. This phenomenon increasingly lends itself to the dominance of a system of echoes and reflections between nations, of all manner of interrelationships, which in theory should contribute to international stability, since according to classical doctrine, the risks of military confrontation are reduced when nations become more interdependent economically and financially. Nevertheless, recent events have revealed the contrary: new sources of tension and conflict have emerged on the international scene, as well as new unconventional forms of violence and crime that affect world peace and destabilize coexistence within and between democratic societies. In this setting of globalization and interdependence, the United Nations — with its universal composition, its agglutinative structure that brings together countries at the most varied levels of human development and ethnic or religious composition, its institutional capacity to act as a point of articulation or a sounding board for all concerns or aspirations that extend beyond the local, national or regional level — would be in an ideal position to play a leading and decisive role. In other words, this Organization is the forum that, by the nature and magnitude of its missions, should embody or interpret more faithfully than any other institution these compelling, topical phenomena of globalization and interdependence. Yet, this distinctive role of the United Nations remains an unrealized vision. It must be asked, then, whether the United Nations, an organic manifestation of the global system that has taken shape in this decade, is capable of effective, systematic action in preventive diplomacy. We would take it one step further and ask what our own national responsibility is, as a democratic State and a founding Member of the United Nations, in strengthening its role in the face of new challenges. Although this may appear simplistic, it is possible to conceive of war as a consequence of poverty, injustice, overpopulation or poverty. But if these conditions have to be eliminated before peace is feasible, then preventing or restricting hostile tensions becomes a Utopian exercise. For this reason, we believe that there is an urgent need to take an up-to-date, modern look at how the United Nations should react and act in response to the new threats to peace, and at what its capacity should be to respond to the phenomena inherent in the recent or current forms of globalization. On considering these questions, we shall certainly come up against an unavoidable obstacle: that of the nation in its traditional form and as the basic unit on which the structure of the United Nations was built. This nation no longer exercises a monopoly over international decisions, and consequently is not the exclusive determinant of their legitimacy. To some extent, this phenomenon may be similar to that described as the emergence of the imprecise State, found in a wide variety of non-State political bodies or agents that have an international impact through the intricate network of non-governmental organizations and multinational political movements whose proliferation is another sign of the new interdependence, and which play an increasingly active role in the management of the world system. Undoubtedly, Governments, as the executives of the political decisions of States, retain their essential powers in matters of diplomacy, security, defence, macroeconomics and currency. Obviously, the United Nations, sustained by the will of Governments, has acted and continues to act as a summarizer or synthesizer of those various wills, without prejudice to the greater or lesser influence of the military or financial powers of its Member States. For this reason, quite naturally, the activity or inactivity of the Organization depends on the concerns or indifference of national Governments, or on the way in which those Governments articulate their consensus or disagreement. But other actors have also taken the international stage, and they are not always a part of the multiplicity of non-governmental organizations. There are also ethnic groups not assimilated into an externally imposed nationality, so-called region-States, with growing links to the world economy and decreasing links to national authorities, as well as religious movements that transcend frontiers and inflame fanaticism which, in some cases, has terrorist effects. We therefore see a dual and contradictory process: globalization and fragmentation. On the one hand, interdependence has given rise to an increasingly interlinked world in which entities influence each other mutually, and this in theory would be conducive to the strengthening of political units and the formation of mega-States or large regional blocs. On the other hand, and as a consequence of the progressive impact of these new actors on the international scene, fragmentation has also emerged. Since its establishment, the United Nations has seen the number of Member States increase almost fivefold, and at present, approximately one third of these countries has been significantly affected by insurgent or dissident movements or Governments in exile. For all of these reasons, which are associated with this dialectical process of globalization and fragmentation, 5 with the growing international importance of a heterogeneous collection of new actors and with the emergence of non-conventional threats to peace that cannot be reconciled through traditional mechanisms of collective security, we need to rethink our Organization and to act in consequence. The restructuring of the United Nations is certainly not a new issue. On its thirtieth, fortieth and fiftieth anniversaries, efforts at revision, or rather at reform, emerged, aimed at achieving greater efficiency in the pursuit of its purposes. Unfortunately, however, the effort currently under way, like its predecessors, does not go to the root of the problem, which lies far deeper than the pursuit of administrative efficiency or the rationalization of functions. If we evaluate the current efforts to restructure the United Nations, we see clearly that in practice virtually all of the reforms being studied have no more than a procedural or formal impact, and do not make a decisive contribution to strengthening the system, or at least its substance, especially if we bear in mind that this Organization exists at a period in history characterized most distinctly by an accelerated pace of change. Uruguay fully and spontaneously agrees with the widespread aspiration for change. Like the vast majority of States represented here, our country feels a deep-seated, natural inclination in favour of any means or instrument that, at the global or regional level, prompts or compels nations to conduct themselves in accordance with law. For countries such as ours, which are founded on the rule of international law, it is essential to support any effort to guarantee the legal order, the principles of law, and the rule of law in relations among States. This is not simply a rhetorical reaffirmation of our desire for peace or our conviction that international law must prevail. Uruguay truly takes the principles of the Charter and the purposes of this Organization as its own, from the maintenance of peace and security — reflected in the fact that our country contributes the largest number of troops per capita to international peacekeeping operations — to the recognition of the primacy of international law — reflected in our being the first country to unconditionally accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. Our position with regard to the United Nations is thus consistent with our historical definition of ourselves as a nation, a definition anchored in respect for international commitments and strict compliance with the principles of international law in all areas in which States bear responsibility. With reference to the agenda for the present session, and without prejudice to the statements the delegation of Uruguay will be making in the various bodies of the Assembly, we believe it appropriate to make a few brief comments on some items of particular interest. It is clear that the reform of the Security Council has captured the attention of the international community, precisely because of the post-cold-war changes I have mentioned. The potential impact of the Council on the evaluation, prevention or easing of international conflicts, and the effective application of the principle of legal equality among States make it necessary to have greater democratization or transparency in the decision-making process and more equitable geographical distribution in the composition of the Council. Uruguay has already expressed its support for increasing the number of permanent members on the Council in the light of present-day world realities, but the number of non-permanent members should also be increased, precisely because of the need for greater transparency and greater representativeness. While many proposals for change have been put forward, we should at the very least all agree that the Council’s future composition should be designed so that the quest for more representativeness does not adversely affect the Council’s operational efficiency. With regard to the question of Palestine and the situation in the Middle East, and despite the various obstacles that continue to hamper the consolidation of a broad and stable peace, it is essential that the international community maintain its support for the peace process initiated in Madrid in 1991. In the same spirit, it should continue to encourage direct talks between Israel, the Palestinian Authority and the Arab countries — as is occurring even today in the United States — with a view to achieving mutual recognition and the ultimate objective of a lasting peace throughout the Middle East. We are confident that the talks taking place in Washington will culminate in the success to which we all aspire, and to which they seem to be leading. In another context, integration processes are indispensable for fair competition in a world of subregional blocks. In this regard, the countries of the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) are convinced that our integration process contributes to a true liberalization of trade. MERCOSUR constitutes an integrated, open process that has created economic zones both inside and outside the subregion. Thus, impetus has 6 been given to association with other States of the hemisphere, with other regional blocs and with countries outside the region. But above all, MERCOSUR has generated trade, both inside and outside the organization. MERCOSUR is today a demonstration of open regionalism, which affirms the commitments and, above all, the teachings of the World Trade Organization. There is no question that free trade has been and remains one of the cornerstones of world economic development, as was repeatedly recognized during the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). For this very reason, we cannot endorse unilateral efforts to effect the extraterritorial application of domestic legislation and as a consequence of which, whether by virtue of their letter or their spirit, a country would be able to extend the applicability of its laws beyond its own national borders, undermining not only the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States but also freedom of trade, which is the very essence of the World Trade Organization, recently established by the international community. While our hopes for the establishment of representative democracy throughout our continent remain as strong as ever, we continue to oppose the unilateral application of economic, trade or financial measures against a State for political purposes. The usefulness of such measures for the rapid and peaceful transition of a country towards democracy has not yet been demonstrated. With regard to cooperation for development, we recall that the countries with greater capacities to contribute undertook to allocate at least 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product for that purpose. Yet there has been a significant downward trend in contributions stemming from that commitment in recent years, and this trend cannot be linked to the financial crisis the Organization is experiencing. These are resources intended to fight poverty and underdevelopment and to create more dignified living conditions for our peoples. Nor should we confine cooperation to a vertical, one-way process; rather, we must also view it in terms of South-South cooperation, availing ourselves of our mutual experience to create our own competitive advantages. A few days ago, Uruguay became one of the first signatories to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Together with other developments, such as the Advisory Opinion of the International Court of Justice regarding the legality of the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, this Treaty constitutes a basic instrument for the reaffirmation of the principles of international peace and security. Still in the field of disarmament, we have repeatedly voiced our opposition to the transfer, stockpiling, export and production of anti-personnel landmines. Accordingly, we shall continue to support keenly all initiatives aimed at eliminating them, as well as at securing the immediate entry into force of the Protocol adopted in Vienna last May. Uruguayan contingents assigned to peacekeeping Missions in Angola, Mozambique and Western Sahara have been among the many victims of these weapons, and it is the moral obligation of humankind to eradicate them. Finally, we should like to close by referring to one of the clearest and most tangible manifestations of the phenomenon of globalization we have sought to describe: the production, trafficking and consumption of illegal drugs. This is one of the most tragic forms of international organized crime, and its growing seriousness is demonstrated by statistics from the most varied sources. Its transnational nature makes it essential that the principle of shared responsibility should be systematically applied — without exception or unilateralism — to the entire cycle of production, trafficking and consumption. This is a tightly wound chain whose links include all countries without exception. Please accept, Mr. President, our sincerest congratulations on your election to guide the work of the Assembly and the firmest commitment of the Government of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay to support you in your activities. ﻿I should like to extend warm congratulations to Mr. Razali on his election as President of the General Assembly. As a close neighbour of Malaysia, Australia will confidently rely on his experience and sound judgement as he presides over this important session of the Assembly. I feel greatly honoured to be leading for the first time the Australian delegation to a session of the General Assembly. A year ago, when the Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, it made an important promise: to give to the twenty-first century a United Nations that would serve effectively the peoples in whose name it was established. We must keep that promise, but to do so we 8 will need a clear view of contemporary circumstances and of those which we can see unfolding into the twenty-first century. The landscape that was revealed at the end of the cold war, just a little over five years ago, has many new features, some of which are still not clear. What is clear, however, is that we face new challenges and that we have new opportunities that few of us would have imagined five years ago. The most compelling of these opportunities is to take future steps in nuclear-arms control and disarmament. The possibility of taking such steps is surely a principal outcome of the end of the cold war. This was firmly underlined last Tuesday when, in a single day, 67 countries signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. That number, only a week later, is now nearly 100. But beyond this achievement lies another major opportunity, which is to turn our national and international attention to enhancing human security in all its aspects. Our dynamic times have presented us with new problems. Such problems include the major non-military threats to security: the clandestine arms trade, the narcotics trade, HIV/AIDS, the need to stabilize the rate of growth of the world’s population and major threats to the environment. The elemental characteristics of such non-military threats to security are that they cannot be defeated by weapons. They cross state boundaries and they can affect whole populations. These characteristics lead to one central conclusion, that is, action on these problems must be the subject of international cooperation. Multilateral cooperation can, does and must take many forms. But the role of the United Nations is unique because of its universality and because of the rules we find in the Charter of the United Nations. It is for these reasons — the nature of the opportunities we have before us, the problems we face and the unique role and capability of the United Nations — that we must keep last year’s promise of a United Nations fit for the challenges of the twenty-first century. Australia’s particular commitment to the United Nations is founded on the belief, articulated as far back as the 1950s by the then Foreign Minister, Richard Casey, that the United Nations represents the practical effort of the Governments and peoples of the world to attain the high goals to which they are pledged through the United Nations Charter: international peace and security and the economic and social advancement of all peoples. Australia has contributed readily to achieving those goals. Whether by paying its financial contributions in full and on time, by providing personnel to peacekeeping operations or through its contributions to development programmes, Australia has been determined to see the United Nations succeed. I commit Australia today to continuing such involvement in the work of the United Nations. At present, a window of opportunity in arms control and disarmament is open to us. If we do not take it soon, it will close. Large and sophisticated nuclear and conventional arsenals continue to exist. In a number of regions, suspicions remain close to the surface. The risks of the spread of weapons of mass destruction have, in certain respects, increased. In Australia’s view, two tasks are fundamental: first, building and strengthening international institutions and instruments; and secondly, developing new thinking in arms control and disarmament so as to push the international agenda forward in constructive and realistic ways. To achieve progress with institutions and instruments, Members of the United Nations need to work together on at least six priorities. These priorities for international cooperation are to make the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and its enhanced review process operate more effectively; to strengthen the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards; to achieve an early start for the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons; to reach early agreement on effective verification machinery for the Biological Weapons Convention; to pursue the goal of a global ban on anti-personnel landmines in conjunction with a global approach to the problem of demining; and to achieve a ban on the production of fissile materials for nuclear weapons. As we pursue these priorities in the multilateral system, we should keep firmly in mind that progress in regional security, particularly in regions of weapons- proliferation concern, will make a crucial contribution. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is of course the immediate priority. Its adoption by the General Assembly and its opening for signature on 24 September 9 were major milestones for the international community. The Treaty is a product of our times. It flows from a long and commonly held global concern. Its death was something the international community simply could not allow. Australia was therefore prepared to take the lead in bringing the Treaty to the General Assembly. The overwhelming support for the resolution demonstrated the strength of international feeling against nuclear testing. This Treaty was wanted and needed, but it has also helped change the international climate. We can now reasonably hope and expect that nuclear testing will not be part of the future to be faced by succeeding generations. In a world with a mixed history on controlling the development and spread of destructive weaponry, that is something of which we can all be proud. The Treaty must become universal. We urge all those countries that have not yet done so to sign and ratify the Treaty as soon as possible so that it can be fully implemented as quickly as possible. There is no merit in the argument that says that, because there is more to be done in nuclear-arms control and disarmament, we should in some way scorn or reject a Treaty that bans all nuclear explosions forever. This ban has intrinsic value. We must now keep up the positive momentum generated by the adoption of the Treaty. This brings me to the second task: developing new ideas. Because building institutions and strengthening international instruments will not be enough, the international community must also develop imaginative new ways of guiding the world into the next century. The Australian Government established the Canberra Commission on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons to address the questions of whether a nuclear-weapon-free world is feasible and, if so, the measures which could be taken to attain that objective. I am delighted to confirm that the Commission has more than met Australia’s expectations. Its report will make a major contribution to international thinking and discussion on nuclear disarmament. The Australian Government will take it forward by circulating it today in this Hall, will present it to the Secretary-General tomorrow and introduce it to the Conference on Disarmament in January. The Canberra Commission report recommends a political commitment by the nuclear-weapon States to the elimination of nuclear weapons. That is the first and central requirement. The report then sets out six immediate steps: taking nuclear forces off alert; removal of warheads from delivery vehicles; ending the deployment of non-strategic nuclear weapons; ending nuclear testing; initiating negotiations further to reduce United States and Russian nuclear arsenals; and an agreement among the nuclear- weapon States on reciprocal no-first-use undertakings and of a non-use undertaking by them in relation to the non-nuclear-weapon States. The Commission also recommends three reinforcing steps: action to prevent further horizontal proliferation; developing verification arrangements for a nuclear- weapon-free world; and the cessation of the production of fissile material for nuclear-explosive purposes. The Commission placed particular emphasis on the importance of effective verification in the achievement and maintenance of a nuclear-weapons-free world. Having at last, after 33 years, met the challenge of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, the international community must now push on with further practical and realistic measures on nuclear-arms control and disarmament. As already indicated, one such measure is the negotiation of a convention under which it would be agreed that there will be no further manufacturing of weapons-grade fissile material. This convention should be sought now. Any discussion of arms control and disarmament in today’s world that failed to address the question of landmines would be sadly incomplete. These hideous and diabolically inexpensive weapons must be banned. Australia will support efforts that will be made at this session of the Assembly to take the next step towards the negotiation of an international convention to that effect. But in the meantime, there are in excess of 100 million of these maiming weapons distributed in the soil of too many countries. Demining must proceed at a far faster rate than has been the case in the past. There have been technological barriers to increasing that rate and Australia has therefore proposed that a technology working group be established among interested and capable countries with the purpose of designing the equipment required for demining on a far larger and quicker scale. If there is any doubt about the need for this action, I would place on record here that, if the current rate of demining in Cambodia were to be maintained, that country, which has struggled so hard to repair itself, 10 would not be free of these mines for a further 130 years. This must be unacceptable to all. That is why the Australian Government recently committed $12 million to practical demining initiatives in the war-ravaged fields within our own region. Security Council reform is another vitally important item on the peace-and-security agenda. The three key issues to be tackled are expansion, transparency and the effectiveness of sanctions regimes. There is now a general acceptance that the Security Council must be expanded and modernized if it is to manage international peace and security more effectively. Although Australia wants to avoid making the Council too unwieldy, there can be little doubt that its membership needs to reflect better current geopolitical and economic circumstances. Expanding the membership is an important element in achieving this and Australia believes that an expansion up to a total Council membership of 25 States would be reasonable. This brings me to the more contentious point of permanent as against non-permanent membership. Australia has made clear that it supports the claims of Japan and Germany to permanent membership. This is the very least the United Nations can do to acknowledge their major- Power status and the financial contribution they are making to the Organization. Australia also advocates permanent seats on the Council for underrepresented regions. As to how that is to be achieved, we remain flexible. Whether those seats are filled by a single member or rotate among leading Member States agreed on by regional groupings needs to be discussed further, primarily by those regions concerned. We also see scope for an increase in the number of non-permanent members of the Council, again in the interests of ensuring greater balance in representation. I turn now to the need for greater transparency in Security Council processes. Consultative mechanisms have improved in recent times, notably between the Secretariat and troop-contributing countries, but more needs to be done. Australia is committed to trying to improve the way in which the Security Council interacts with non-members so that the Council’s activities become more responsive to the United Nations as a whole. More needs to be done, too, to build the Council’s relationship with regional organizations. Good progress has been recorded to date, but United Nations and regional organizations should meet regularly in order to develop further the appropriate division of responsibilities. The Council also has an important role to play in preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and enhancing the effectiveness of the non-proliferation regime. Australia wants to see improvements in the effectiveness of United Nations sanctions because we recognize that the Security Council’s use of collective sanctions continues to be an important and, at times, contentious enforcement measure. The effectiveness of sanctions regimes could be improved in three ways: clearer drafting of Security Council resolutions; providing specific objectives and realistic time-frames; and through relevant sanctions committees providing clear interpretative guidance on implementation. These are changes that are essential for the Security Council’s dynamism. We need to press ahead with them to ensure that the Council reflects modern-day circumstances and realities. Our contemporary circumstances have opened up new needs and prospects for peacekeeping and preventive diplomacy. Initial post-cold-war hopes about the capabilities of the Security Council have been tempered. It has become clear that many conflicts are intractable. Experience has taught us that it is difficult to reach agreement on suitable approaches and to find enough resources, particularly in the area of peacekeeping. The Security Council must be realistic in the implementation of its Charter responsibilities. It must resist pressure to embark on missions before it has completed adequate preparations, developed a focused sense of the mission’s goals and agreed on a clearly articulated mandate. At this very moment, the United Nations is confronted with major challenges in such diverse situations as those in Cyprus, Burundi and Liberia. Australia has been contributing personnel to the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus, for example, for over 20 years and has been saddened by the recent incidents of violence there. The time has come to resolve that situation, which requires the assistance of all parties. One very important area of reform for United Nations peacekeeping is to establish an enhanced rapid- reaction capability. There have been many proposals on this issue, but the Australian Government believes that the 11 Canadian study, Towards a Rapid Reaction Capability for the United Nations, contains some commendable recommendations, including the development of a deployable, operational-level headquarters to strengthen planning for operations. Australia welcomes recent moves by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations to begin implementing measures aimed at improving United Nations rapid-reaction capability, but in taking these measures forward, the United Nations should consult adequately with all Member States. Australia is also keen to see the United Nations develop the preventive-diplomacy agenda and it welcomes the greater resources the Secretariat now devotes to such activity. The Security Council, the General Assembly and the good offices of the Secretary-General, as well as regional arrangements and agencies, have important roles to play in preventive diplomacy. Australia supports greater use of Chapter VI of the Charter on the pacific settlement of disputes. Article 33 is particularly important. The Security Council can use it to undertake a leadership role by calling on disputing parties to seek a solution using negotiation, mediation and other peaceful means. As I indicated at the beginning of this statement, one of the chief results of the end of the cold war must surely be an increase in our ability to turn away from military concerns and to give a greater degree of attention to threats to the security of individuals, as distinct from those threats to the security of States that have dominated our thinking in the past, important and basic though they have been and remain. In today’s world and in the world we see unfolding into the twenty-first century, the security of far too many people is threatened in ways no less immediate than the threat of the gun. I have in mind narcotics, HIV/AIDS and major threats to the environment. These threats cannot be dealt with effectively by States acting alone. Sometimes they require new international law, but more specifically they require political will to defeat them and to foster cooperation among nations to ensure maximum effectiveness of action. The United Nations is the ideal environment in which to develop such cooperation. It is here that the world is represented. We have here a tradition of debate, of discussion, of identification of problems and of consensus. We have the ability to make law when it is necessary. Above all, we have pledged ourselves to defending and providing a decent standard of living to the peoples we represent. There is also a regional role and, in that context, Australia was pleased to have promoted the concept of a regional HIV/AIDS ministers’ meeting at the Post- Ministerial Conference of this year’s session of the Association of South-East Asian Nations. As we move towards the twenty-first century, it will be crucial to the execution of that responsibility to ensure that we have a healthy United Nations that is devoted to international cooperation aimed at defeating the major non-military threats to the security of the human family. These threats are tragically evident to us today. They will only become larger if we do not agree, now, to begin cooperative action to defeat them. History will surely judge our generation harshly if, having identified the problems of human security, we fail for lack of will to address their solutions. Another great requirement of our times is the economic needs of people and the promotion of development. Much has been done through the United Nations and its agencies to advance the development cause. They have been pivotal to the emergence of a multilateral approach in which institutions with special competencies such as the specialized agencies, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, together with policy deliberative bodies such as the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council, have complementary roles to play. Development is about more than just economic growth, however. There is also the need for internal stability, sound environmental management, a vigorous civil society and a lively democracy. The United Nations is uniquely placed to build consensus on how to advance these various elements of the development agenda. In this context, Australia welcomes the constructive outcomes achieved at the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) held in Midrand, South Africa, earlier this year. The decisions taken there should help developing countries benefit from the opportunities of economic globalization. We also underline the importance of encouraging investment and technology transfers and providing trade opportunities to stimulate economic development. Such 1 development is the only enduring foundation for independence and economic and social well-being. It is in Africa that these development challenges are most stark. Rich in promise yet wearied by emergencies, Africa stands today at a decisive juncture in its history. African leaders seized the moment with the Organization of African Unity’s 1995 Cairo Agenda for Action, in which they called for immediate action to implement the development strategies for which an international consensus now exists. The United Nations responded this year with the launch of a 10-year, $25 billion United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa. The Australian Government welcomes the Special Initiative as a concrete demonstration of the international community’s concern with Africa. The international community cannot allow disease, poverty, war and underdevelopment to become entrenched in the 53 nations — almost one-third of United Nations Member States — that make up the African continent. The world must continue to seek ways to break the poverty cycle in Africa so that its potential for economic development is realized. Sustainable economic development is essential to overcome poverty, disease and conflict. The United Nations system needs to give greater focus and impetus to the development effort in Africa. I now turn to the issue of human rights. Human rights are important in international relations for two main reasons: first, political instability and major conflict can result where human rights are breached or are under threat; and secondly, the freedom and dignity of individuals is, in itself, of fundamental value to the world community. The Australian Government aims for practical outcomes that will improve the lives of individual men, women and children. We recognize the importance of dialogue and cooperation, based on mutual respect. In addition to public and private diplomacy, Australia’s approach to the improvement of human rights also encompasses development cooperation. Australia strongly supports the development of strong and independent national human rights institutions. For example, Australia provided financial support for a workshop of Asia-Pacific national human rights institutions, which agreed to establish an informal forum to work for the strengthening and further development of such institutions in the region. Australia has also provided financial support to the United Nations for the creation of a position of special adviser to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on national human rights institutions. Finally, it is important to address the issue of reform of the United Nations. Much work still needs to be done to bring about greater efficiency and effectiveness in the United Nations and its specialized agencies. While Australia applauds the dedication and hard work of the General Assembly Working Groups that were set up in 1995, Member States must not lose sight of the fact that to achieve real change, the Groups have to come up with realistic and achievable recommendations. Those recommendations must in turn lead to practical and measurable outcomes. It is important that the work of the groups be focused and that their momentum be restored so that early and positive outcomes can be achieved. We must all commit ourselves to this end and to bringing about structured change within the United Nations. It is also crucial that the financial situation of the United Nations be repaired. Australia believes that all Members should pay their contributions in full and on time. We therefore welcome recent moves by some countries to pay their arrears. It is time to establish a revised scale of assessed contributions that more fairly reflects what Governments can pay. The current minimum payment is too high for many small-economy countries, and Australia would like to see it reduced or even removed. These are the reforms that Australia believes are necessary to equip the United Nations for its role in the twenty-first century. It is in this overall context that Australia is deeply committed to contributing to the United Nations goal of maintaining international peace and security in an active way. Serving a term as a non-permanent member of the Security Council during 1997-1998 would enable Australia to make a substantive contribution to that goal and to work for a more effective, modernized and transparent Council. That is why we have asked for the support of Member States at the elections to be held a few weeks from now. 13 Let me conclude by summing up what I have said today. The United Nations is unique and needed, but it must pursue, and work on the basis of, a relevant Agenda. This is the central point. The United Nations must be put to work on the agenda of the twenty-first century. Much work needs to be done to tackle the key challenges that face the United Nations. Only a sustained, cooperative effort among all Member States will bring success. Australia will make that effort. ﻿The delegation of Costa Rica is pleased to extend its warmest congratulations to the President of the General Assembly on his election. In addition to his distinguished personal and professional qualities, we are inspired by the respect and friendship that we share with Malaysia, a living example of many peoples joining their efforts without losing their identity, as is appropriately stated in the motto of Malaysia: Unity is strength. I am also pleased to convey Costa Rica’s respects to the former President of the General Assembly, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his excellent work presiding over the deliberations of the Assembly. Mr. Secretary-General, your work in favour of world peace and security and your efforts to renew the United Nations have granted you a place of honour in the pages of the history of this Organization and of the international community. My delegation wishes to convey the gratitude and respect Costa Rica feels for your commendable work. A session of the General Assembly is necessarily a time for meditation for all Member States. Each and every delegation asks itself the same questions: what progress has been made towards fulfilling the purposes and principles of the United Nations during the last 12 months? What has our country or region done to contribute to that task? Is the United Nations playing the role we would like it to? What can we do to ensure that this Organization lives up to the hopes placed in it? What progress have we achieved in the reform of the United Nations? We are keenly aware that in this post-cold-war era the United Nations agenda has grown considerably. Nevertheless, the present situation does not seem very encouraging. The establishment of this Organization, as we were reminded during the celebration of its fiftieth anniversary, was one of the most extraordinary consequences of the end of the Second World War. However, the so-called balance of terror between the super- Powers that prevailed in the cold-war years has been followed by a long series of conflicts that, despite their limited geographical scope, are nonetheless damaging and bloody. We have watched in anguish as, in several parts of the world, national, religious, tribal and racial hatreds have re-emerged. Even within pluralistic democracies, situations of extreme poverty and social injustice in some instances, or of crime and drug trafficking in others, have unleashed varying degrees of violence. To all this we must add the recent events of recent weeks in the Middle East, which have given rise to deep concern and may have grave consequences for the maintenance of international peace and security. Nonetheless, there are grounds for optimism. We hope that the elections in Bosnia, which took place in a harmonious environment, will allow for the establishment of a durable multi-ethnic State, in the spirit of the peace agreements. In the same vein, my delegation welcomes the resumption of negotiations between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority aimed at achieving harmonious relations among the peoples inhabiting the Holy Land. I am pleased to inform the General Assembly that a plenipotentiary envoy from Costa Rica met recently with Chairman Arafat to convey to him Costa Rica’s solidarity with the Palestinian people and its steadfast determination to support and contribute to compliance with the Oslo agreements in order to achieve a stable and lasting peace in the Middle East. Costa Rica, which will soon celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the abolition of its armed forces, also welcomed the Advisory Opinion of the International Court of Justice regarding the legality of the use and threat of use of nuclear weapons, and it is deeply satisfied by the opening for signature of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty. Since 1958, in the framework of the Organization of American States, my country has been proposing the limitation of conventional weapons and the prohibition of nuclear weapons within the inter- American system. In keeping with this civil and pacifist inclination, Costa Rica signed the Treaty at the General Assembly. My delegation further calls fraternally upon all Member States of the United Nations to do likewise as soon as possible. Similarly, my nation considers most favourably the draft resolution proposed by Malaysia regarding the follow-up to the Advisory Opinion and its call for the start of negotiations to conclude a treaty providing for global nuclear disarmament. We are also of the view that greater consideration needs to be given to the problems raised by international arms transfers and trade. The delegation of Costa Rica would like to take this opportunity to recall the draft 23 international code of conduct on this issue, proposed by the former President of Costa Rica, Oscar Arias, and other Nobel Prize laureates, in accordance with the principles of the United Nations and with the aspiration of maintaining world peace. Costa Rica is also pleased to say that Central America has continued its progress in consolidating peace and democracy. Although we still suffer serious problems and still face harsh social and economic realities, the bloody crisis of the 1980s belongs to the past. The Central American countries are firmly committed to consolidating peace and maintaining democracy. Honest and pluralistic electoral processes have become the norm where before they were the exception. National reconciliation is becoming a reality. The recent, definitive progress in the Guatemalan peace process augurs well for the definitive attainment of peace in the entire Central American area. In this regard, I am pleased to extend special congratulations to the Government of President Alvaro Arzú Irigoyen, to the Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca (URNG), to the Group of Friends, particularly the Government of Mexico and President Ernesto Zedillo, and to the Secretariat of the United Nations, for the progress recently achieved. The existence of peace and democracy in Central America, a region usually considered turbulent, proves that will and perseverance can overcome any of the negative legacies of history. We, the Central American peoples, hope that other peoples will join in this experience, without having to pay so high a price. Nonetheless, precisely because all the countries in the region were affected, in one way or another, by this political and security crisis, all of us are now working determinedly to ensure that that chapter will not be reopened. We know, furthermore, that without development there will be no lasting peace. With this conviction, the Central American region has found a common goal in the endeavour to attain sustainable political, economic, social cultural and environmental development. Two years ago, the Central American nations decided to unite in an Alliance for Sustainable Development. In addition to reconciling humankind with nature, this Alliance aspires to establish in our countries a society that will allow present generations to fully develop their capabilities in all areas and that will ensure future generations a prosperous future. Our Alliance is based on a common political project that combines economic growth, environmental balance and individual freedom. For the first time in its long history, Central America has a common developmental goal, and this in turn strengthens its dedication to regionalism. In the same line of action, Central America has set out on a quest for innovative approaches to the rest of the world that will help it realize its political, social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. This joint fraternal action aimed at reincorporating Central America into the international community has sought to institutionalize new links with other countries and regions that have supported our efforts to attain peace and democracy in the isthmus, and that are now cooperating in our struggle for sustainable development. Central America has thus established special mechanisms of dialogue and cooperation with Mexico, Chile, Canada, the United States of America, Japan, the Republic of Korea and the Republic of China on Taiwan. We have also redefined our relations with the European Union, institutionalized since the start of the last decade in what is known as the San José dialogue. We hope that in the near future these activities will be extended to other countries and regions. The conviction that it is possible to consolidate peace only through development is not exclusive to Central America. This year my country has had the honour and the privilege to preside over the Group of 77 and China in New York. This has allowed us to represent and defend on numerous occasions the points of view of the countries of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean. One fifth of humanity continues to live in conditions of extreme poverty; discrimination on the basis of gender continues to be the order of the day; millions of children continue to lack access to education, health services and nutrition. My delegation views these facts with deep regret and attaches the utmost importance to the Agenda for Development. In this connection, I wish to reiterate the conviction expressed recently on the occasion of the adoption of the report of the Working Group on this matter — that that forum must remain open. A true United Nations system is inconceivable without an integrated and comprehensive plan of action for development. If the issues of development and international cooperation were to be reduced or diminished in this Organization, the very essence of the United Nations would be seriously affected. 24 In that same spirit of solidarity that holds sway in our Organization, we believe that the preservation and strengthening of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the United Nations International Development Organization (UNIDO) are essential. For small countries in particular, the linkage between commerce, technology transfer and development are, in and of themselves, outside the framework of the World Trade Organization. In order to emphasize this firm conviction, the President of Costa Rica travelled to South Africa on the occasion of UNCTAD’s 9th meeting. At that forum he expressed our country’s support for the just and legitimate aspirations to development of the countries of the third world. International cooperation cannot be viewed solely in terms of the richest giving aid to the poorest. We strongly believe in the necessity and appropriateness of intensifying the efforts aimed at increasing horizontal cooperation between developing countries. In January 1997, at the conclusion of its term as Chairman of the Group of 77 and China, Costa Rica will convene — with the participation of the private sector and non-governmental organizations — a South-South conference on trade, finance and investment. We hope that new and constructive approaches to speed up the rate of economic and financial cooperation among developing countries will result from that conference. Directly related to the subject of the Agenda for Development is the need for an integrated follow-up to the agreements and programmes of action adopted at the summits and conferences held by the United Nations in the last decade. In them lies the real agenda of work for the United Nations in such essential fields as the environment, population, human rights, the rights of women and children, habitat and social development. Accordingly, Costa Rica, in its capacity as Chairman of the Group of 77 and China, promoted and received unanimous support in the Economic and Social Council for a resolution designed to give coherence and provide follow-up to the agreements and programmes of action of the international conferences and summits of the United Nations. Costa Rica, as an agricultural country, attaches great importance to the food summit planned to be held at Rome at the end of this year. As early as 1954, through the initiative of then-President José Figueres Ferrer, Costa Rica proposed to this Organization the creation of a world food reserve that would enable us to confront the effects of natural disasters and famines. Today we still believe that international solidarity is decisive in facing food challenges and that it constitutes a fundamental goal of contemporary international relations that should not be disregarded in the search for economic liberalization. Of greatest importance, and closely related to these issues, is the need to pay attention to the problems of desertification and water resources, which during the early years of the next millennium will gravely affect food production and the very existence of the human species. At the World Summit for Social Development, it was reaffirmed that human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated. Among those rights is the global right to development, which, in Costa Rica’s opinion, right cannot be reduced to its mere economic dimension. Development must also have a moral and ethical dimension. We must accept the responsibility of ensuring that the world that we are going to leave to future generations is going to be more peaceful, healthier, more humane and more democratic than the one in which we have lived. This responsibility must be shared individually and collectively, nationally and internationally by all elements of society. Reflection on what we have done and what we have failed to do over the last 12 months leads us to the question of what must be done in the immediate future. In this connection, the revitalization and reform of the United Nations system is pivotal. In its analysis of this issue, the Government of Costa Rica has considered with deep interest some of the proposals contained in the report of the Commission on Global Governance. The reform of the United Nations must reflect the realities of change, including the capacity of civil society to contribute to global governance. My delegation attaches fundamental importance to the restructuring of the Security Council. We cannot arrive at the year 2000 still using the calendar of 1945. The Council cannot continue to be held in a framework that has been fully overtaken by the reality of international politics. Costa Rica considers it a priority to take up this task, both in order to grant permanent membership to Germany and Japan and to a representative of each of the three developing regions — Africa, Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean. In addition, we must reorganize the powers of the Council and of its members. If the political conditions for a reform of this kind do not exist, we must then consider other possibilities, such as the proposal made by the Government of Italy. 25 We consider that there is a need to infuse the General Assembly with new vitality, as regards both the need to ensure the principle of universality and the modernization of its agenda and procedures. We believe that no people on Earth should be denied the right to be represented in our Organization. My delegation is also of the view that greater importance should be given to the work of the Council and the Secretariat in the area of preventive diplomacy. The actions of these bodies at the outset of a conflict can be decisive in achieving a solution, but they would be even more so if their powers were increased so that they could anticipate such situations. Similarly, we believe that there is a need to restructure the Secretariat to give it greater flexibility and effectiveness in the execution of its tasks. As a country that entrusts its security to international law, Costa Rica gives a place of honour to the International Court of Justice. In our opinion, the acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court could become a duty inherent in membership of this Organization. Finally, the restructuring of the United Nations is also directly linked to its financial capabilities. The new United Nations cannot be the property of the major Powers, nor can it become the sole responsibility of a small group of States. The United Nations of the future should belong to all, and this conception logically involves the duty of all its Members to meet their commitments in accordance with the scale of assessments. In this respect, my delegation believes that the full reform of the United Nations system, if it ensures a more rational administration and more equitable distribution of the resources and programmes of the Organization, will put the Organization in a better position to insist that its Members States pay their assessments on time. Our world is approaching the third millennium. In the midst of so much darkness, so many challenges and so many overwhelming difficulties, the human race retains a spirit that, together with the use of language, distinguishes it from any other species: hope. This spirit, now more than ever before, is embodied in this Organization. The United Nations must remain united in its effort to make the present better and united in its goal to design a promising future. I should like to conclude by recalling a teaching of the Prophet Mohammed which continues to resonate today as a norm of conduct for all human beings and all nations on Earth: “Do not break the ties of friendship, do not feel bitterness towards your fellow men, do not feel loathing for them, do not envy them. Live as brothers, as God has ordered us to do.” ﻿On behalf of the people and the Government of Papua New Guinea, I congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. The warm relations that have developed between our two nations make it a particular pleasure to welcome you to your high office and to wish you well in carrying out your duties. I would also like to record our sincere appreciation for the wise leadership with which your predecessor guided our deliberations during the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. The rapid approach of the year 2000 raises the question whether — and how — we are going to try to make the turn of the century a turning point for the United Nations. Despite the many thought-provoking speeches made for the fiftieth anniversary, I regret to say that signs of fundamental and far-reaching changes required remain elusive. Yet we live at a time when the only constant factor is change. The preamble to its Charter makes it quite clear that the United Nations itself was — and is — intended to be an agent of change. If our Organization is to remain relevant to the challenges ahead, then it, and we the Members, must adapt and keep on adapting, as the world continues to change. Invented to raise humanity’s sights beyond the horizon of destruction caused by world war, the United Nations must be continuously reinvented in order to play an effective role in a rapidly changing world. The United Nations has in fact been successful at one kind of change: adding to our agenda responsibilities and activities in areas such as peacekeeping, peacemaking, human rights and sustainable development. It has, however, been very much less successful in rationalizing its operations and administrative support. Humanity needs a much more focused, trim and vital United Nations. Without internal reform, the risk of overload is only too real — and, arguably, overload is already here. Even more importantly, we, the Members of the United Nations, have to do more, much more, to adapt key institutions to the changed and still-changing circumstances of a post-colonial, post-cold-war world. Almost everyone agrees what the main issues and options are. Yet as far as its permanent membership goes, the Security Council in particular remains, much as it has always been, the product of decisions made before most Member States became independent. Some of the strongest critics of the cost and alleged inefficiencies of the United Nations come from States that are among the slowest in paying their membership dues. While they criticize weaknesses in the Organization’s performance, they are often among the most eager 4 advocates of giving it new assignments. Their actions — and inaction — suggest that they confuse cutbacks in the resources available to the United Nations with real reform. Like other members of the Non-Aligned Movement, Papua New Guinea is firmly committed to reforming the Security Council. While we recognize that those whom existing arrangements most favour are well placed to delay or block change, we firmly believe that the Council’s composition should be altered. It must take better account of the geographical distribution and sovereign equality of Member States. Concerned that it seems to be taking longer to reform than it originally took to form the United Nations, Papua New Guinea’s voice and vote are emphatically for change. We believe that the time for action is now. Papua New Guinea has embarked on an ambitious programme of domestic reforms, including both constitutional and economic-policy changes. Having legislated a new system of provincial and local-level governments in order to improve the delivery of services to our people, we are actively engaged in implementation. Twenty-one years after giving ourselves a “home-grown” Constitution, we are now engaged in a comprehensive process of reform that is equally “home-grown”. My Government is just as determined to bring about comprehensive structural adjustment. Following decisions to devalue and float our national currency, the kina, we are now reducing the size of the public sector. We are making the official interface with the private sector more business-friendly and encouraging commercial enterprise. While international agencies and foreign aid donors provide valuable support, the impulse, direction and pace of reform are emphatically Papua New Guinea’s own. Being a member of the Government that led Papua New Guinea to its independence, I cannot allow our national sovereignty — or our Government’s ability to respond to our people’s needs — to be compromised now. Experience of the difficulties of reform at home has reinforced my Government’s commitment to reforming the United Nations. The principles remain the same. We strongly support efforts to ensure that the world has a truly effective, flexible and responsive Organization through which to cooperate in meeting the challenges of the twenty- first century. The United Nations is founded on the idea that security involves much more than military defence against threats of armed attack. Conscious of the threats and limitations on self-defence that we face together with other small island developing countries, Papua New Guinea has always regarded collective security as an important key to national security. Diplomacy is the means by which we seek to cooperate with all other States committed to peace. As the current Chairman of the Melanesian Spearhead Group (MSG), I am pleased to report that we welcomed Fiji as a new member at our Summit in June. We also adopted a document — “Melanesia Beyond 2000” — which outlines our objectives and strategy for the MSG’s second decade. We have emphasized our commitment to cooperation on a wide basis and have also agreed to a proposal on weapons control. The South Pacific Forum is developing the idea on a region-wide basis. Following the extreme outrage that the South Pacific felt when France resumed its testing programme in French Polynesia last year, I can now report that the programme has ceased. The remaining nuclear Powers with interests in our region — France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America — have signed the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty (Treaty of Rarotonga). France has been readmitted as a post-Forum dialogue partner. As much as we welcome the developments during the past 12 months, Papua New Guinea believes that more is required before our region can be described as genuinely nuclear-free. Outstanding needs include a broader treaty, systematic monitoring of former test-sites, cleaning up, compensation and the provision of alternative sources of income for the people of French Polynesia. The Treaty of Rarotonga is complemented by the MSG’s Lakatoro Declaration on Denuclearization in Oceania. Subregional and regional efforts are again complemented by similar arrangements negotiated during the past year in South-East Asia and Africa, as well as by the much older arrangements that apply to Antarctica and Latin America. Papua New Guinea welcomes the Brazilian proposal to link these arrangements into a comprehensive nuclear-weapon-free zone covering the entire southern hemisphere. Having supported the recent passage of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, we would now like to see it extended to outlawing simulations, limiting the development and acquisition of new nuclear weapons and, ultimately, bringing about complete disarmament. 5 The South Pacific Forum has expressed support for the early conclusion of negotiations over a legal regime covering civil liability for nuclear damage. Committed to furthering cooperation against threats to our region, the South Pacific Forum is working on an arrangement through which member States can respond to legitimate requests for assistance from one another’s disciplined services, including police. The same arrangement could also be used for consultations intended to help prevent, manage and settle disputes. We continue to broaden, deepen and diversify other areas of security cooperation, including law enforcement. Consistent with agreements reached at the regional level, Papua New Guinea has adopted a comprehensive code of logging practice designed to promote the sustainable use and in-country processing of a rich renewable natural resource. We are gravely concerned at the threat that climate change poses to the very survival of low-lying atolls. Entire countries in our region face the risk of extinction. Papua New Guinea joins with other developing countries in calling on the advanced industrialized countries to look beyond their immediate self-interest and adopt specific targets for reducing greenhouse emissions, an issue which generates considerable emotion among us. Together with other coastal States in the region, we look to distant-water fishing nations for cooperation in giving effect to the United Nations Agreement on straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks so that it does not weaken existing regional arrangements. In the wider Asia-Pacific region, Papua New Guinea calls for a reduction of avoidable sources of stress, uncertainty and risk on the Korean Peninsula, both for the sake of the countries directly involved and because of their potentially adverse effects on other countries. Concerned about events earlier in the year, I repeat last year’s call for the United Nations to do its best to ease the tensions between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait. Important regional organizations in the Asia-Pacific have found ways of following the principle within the region. The European Parliament has adopted a resolution recommending that the United Nations identify options for Taiwan to take part in the activities of bodies answerable to the General Assembly. The United Nations has an obligation to assist in maintaining a secure environment in which economic growth and other forms of development can continue for the benefit of the peoples of the region as well as their partners around the world. It is therefore time to address the question of Taiwanese participation in institutions and processes set up to further the universal objectives of the United Nations Charter. Respect for the national sovereignty of Member States is basic to the United Nations Charter. Small island developing countries tend to be especially vulnerable to a wide range of possible threats. Their development, and even their very survival, often depend on international cooperation and law. Having achieved national independence under United Nations supervision, Papua New Guinea is firmly committed to the United Nations Special Committee on the Situation With Regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. Despite criticism from certain quarters, we were therefore pleased to welcome and host the Special Committee’s regional seminar held in Port Moresby in June. Together with all other members of the Melanesian Spearhead Group and the South Pacific Forum, we remain firmly committed to the orderly decolonization of New Caledonia, with special safeguards for the indigenous Kanaks. We will not accept illegitimate attempts to delay or derail complete implementation of the Matignon Agreements. Having reviewed the French Government’s record elsewhere in the region, we ask ourselves whether French Polynesia, as well as Walis and Futuna, should be included in the United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories. The international community has a duty to see that France meets its responsibilities to the people of our region and a prime responsibility must be the right of self-determination. On Bougainville, my Government is firmly committed to doing all that we can to resolve the crisis that has racked the Bougainville Province in my country since 1989. I therefore negotiated a cease-fire, arranged a regional peacekeeping force and agreed to peace talks in October 1994, only to find that the militant leaders would not honour the agreements reached. Even so, my Government has been prepared to talk to those who will talk to us. We have established the Bougainville Transitional Government and continue to provide protection for people forced to flee from their homes by the criminal actions of an armed and militant minority. We continue to restore services and to encourage reconciliation, but the mounting toll of destruction, injury and loss of life caused by the militants gave the National 6 Government no alternative but to lift the ceasefire on 21 March this year. Even now, rival gangs of armed criminals continue to threaten the lives of innocent people, trying to destroy what the people, provincial leaders and the national Government are doing and reconstructing. They undermine all efforts to maintain the rule of law. In a particularly barbaric attack on 8 September this year, 12 members of our security forces were killed at the Kangu Care Centre in South Bougainville. Despite the worst efforts of the Bougainville Revolutionary Army and its sympathizers abroad, my Government is standing firm. We will not give them the satisfaction of departing from our basic objective of restoring peace and rebuilding all they have destroyed. We appreciate the understanding displayed by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights when it considered the Bougainville situation earlier this year. It has always been a complex domestic issue. In keeping with the mutual respect for national sovereignty that is basic to international law, Papua New Guinea calls on all other States to refrain from statements and actions that send misleading signals to those who violate our laws; to cooperate in preventing smuggling and other illegal violations of our borders; and generally to prevent outsiders from interfering illegally in Papua New Guinea’s internal affairs. In so doing, we add the reminder that it is not the foreign meddlers who will suffer most from the effects of the crisis — it will be the people of Papua New Guinea, including the overwhelming majority of Bougainvilleans, who consider themselves to be part of our nation and entitled to the same rights as all other Papua New Guineans. Conscious of the violations that have occurred on all sides and of the need to avoid any repetition, my Government is in the process of trying to strengthen existing arrangements by establishing a national commission on human rights. My Government has embarked on an ambitious programme of structural adjustment, because we — and not some outside body — think that we should in order to ensure that development can be sustained for future generations. While we accept external advice and appreciate external assistance, we have not yielded to, and will not give in to, external pressure. It is crucial that the official conduct of such bodies not raise basic questions about relations between these institutions and the sovereignty of the member States that they are supposed to serve. National and collective self-reliance are both means of achieving and integral to the objective of sustainable development. They are critical to maintaining and strengthening the security and sovereignty of States. National self-reliance is among Papua New Guinea’s constitutional goals and directive principles. Collective self-reliance through South Pacific cooperation is among the commitments contained in my Government’s Pacific Plan and implemented through our current national budget. My Government’s proposal that Papua New Guinea should enter into a form of permanent association with the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) is intended to further the process by which we cooperate with neighbouring countries to promote collective self-reliance. We appreciate the positive interest that ASEAN members have expressed in the idea and we strongly support closer cooperation between ASEAN and the South Pacific Forum. As the only Pacific island country directly involved in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC), but by no means the only such country likely to be affected by the process, Papua New Guinea has proposed that APEC set up a scheme to help build capacity among the 13 small island developing countries in the region so that they are not left or pushed behind. The proposal that we are now developing in greater detail is emphatically not intended to be yet another open-ended aid programme under a different name. Rather, it is intended to help small island countries manage their way through the transition to the achievement of APEC’s vision of open-ended regional free trade by the year 2020. As an active participant in institutions established under the Lomé Convention, Papua New Guinea would like to encourage other member States to give early consideration to the kinds of changes that would facilitate development processes and objectives consistent with World Trade Organization rules. Conscious of the aid fatigue now spreading through many advanced industrial countries, we urge Governments and people of goodwill to recognize the time and effort that development requires. With a few very honourable exceptions, donor countries have not reached — and in 7 many cases have fallen far behind — aid targets to which they agreed a generation ago. Thus, not only has aid been reduced, but recipients are even more locked and tied to donors’ own preferences. The effect that the failure to honour commitments can have on national forward planning can be very severe. It underlines the need for a reduced reliance on aid and for the development of a greater degree of self-reliance. In view of the vital role that the business sector can play in mobilizing capital for investment and trade, we welcome schemes designed to assist in the development of the private sector. We especially welcome the contributions made to such schemes by the advanced industrial countries. We cannot achieve all our reforms without the support of world institutions. That is accepted. However, those institutions themselves need to operate with greater flexibility and to be more sensitive to the particular needs of Governments to preserve democracy, the environment and their people’s national identity and culture. My Government takes a global view of Papua New Guinea’s foreign relations and of issues on the United Nations agenda. We encourage official agencies, business and non-governmental organizations both to “Look North” and to “Work the Pacific” for mutual benefit with close neighbours. Conscious that we must not overlook longstanding friends, we give high priority to reinforcing core relationships. Our overall objective is to continue reform at home in order to meet the challenges of global change. We will continue to support wider efforts at reform, including those directed at and through the United Nations, in order to meet the challenges of global change and embrace the imperatives of reform in readiness for the twenty-first century.  ﻿The delegation of Panama wishes to join in the very warm congratulations that the President has already received from the speakers who have preceded me. His well-deserved election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session attests to his skills and personal merits, and at the same time reflects the esteem that Malaysia, a prominent member of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) has come to enjoy in the family of nations. I am also very pleased that this particular part of our meeting is being chaired by our colleague from the Philippines, Ambassador Mabilangan. Allow me on this solemn occasion to pay tribute to the eminent Portuguese statesman Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who presided over the historic fiftieth session with great wisdom, poise and humanism and shed his particular light on the institutional reform of the United Nations. At the fiftieth session of the General Assembly Panama proposed, together with the United States and France, that the United Nations and interested countries should take a decisive part in the holding of the Universal Congress on the Panama Canal, which will take place in September 1997. On that occasion the Assembly adopted resolution 50/12 (1995), which in its operative part, “Urges the competent organs, programmes and specialized agencies of the United Nations system, in particular, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme and the International Maritime Organization, to study the possibility of providing assistance from within existing resources for the organization of the Universal Congress on the Panama Canal”. (resolution 50/12, para. 3) In the first operative paragraph the Assembly noted that it “Supports the initiative of the Government of Panama in convening the Universal Congress on the Panama Canal, with the participation of Governments, international bodies, public and private academic institutions, maritime users and 7 international shipping companies, to examine jointly the role which the Panama Canal should play in the twenty-first century”. (Ibid., para. 1) The Government of Panama has a particular interest in seeing that Member States of the United Nations, as well as intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations of the international community, are informed about how Panama, as a sovereign State, is preparing to take on all the responsibilities stemming from the final transfer of the interoceanic canal in 1999, pursuant to the provisions of the Torrijos-Carter Treaties. One calendar year from the holding of the Congress, I wish to inform the General Assembly that the Panamanian Government is hard at work on preparations and stepping up consultations with international organizations and friendly countries in order to secure meaningful participation. The Panama Canal Congress will be universal in terms of participation; it will also be universal because Panama, with its universalist and Bolivarian traditions, takes the view that international maritime transport should be open uninterruptedly to all the flags of the world on an equal footing and under a neutral and universal regime that obliges us all to ensure its peaceful use and transit, taking into account the expansion of international trade and the growth of the world economy. Ours is a time in which nations appear to be closer than ever and in which there are tremendous opportunities to improve the living conditions of all. At the same time, the existence of numerous imbalances, obstacles, risks and dangers gives Governments and peoples grounds for concern. It is not only remarkable achievements of science, technology and trade that are being globalized; unfortunately, hunger and environmental degradation are also being globalized. There are still national and international situations that are marked by the denial of fundamental values and that affect human rights and the freedom of peoples. There are growing inequalities between members of our societies and between nations, and certain injustices still persist in some aspects of international relations. Arms trafficking and overt or covert resistance to agreements and initiatives to reverse the arms race are signs that attitudes of expediency are prevailing, to the detriment of our hopes for peace and agreement and our aspirations to sustainable development. Terrorism, organized crime and transnational crime conspire and feed off one another on an unprecedented international scale, exploiting the many faces of drug use, which is a threat to all mankind. These concerns dominated the agenda of the Rio Group at its tenth summit, held a month ago in Cochabamba, Bolivia. It was an opportunity to underscore at the highest possible political level the serious challenges facing Latin America and the Caribbean, whose average poverty levels have reached alarming levels despite the tremendous efforts of our Governments to reduce them. At that meeting the Panamanian Government stated — and I reaffirm here in this forum — that poverty and corruption are powerful forces threatening the democracies of the continent. On that occasion, the President of Panama, Mr. Ernesto Pérez Balladares, stated: “When Nations embark on political adventures divorced from institutionality, they do not do so because they reject in theory the benefits of democracy, but because they associate their own despair with the regime under which they live ... For this reason, until the new concepts governing economic relations among countries today and democracy throughout the continent are accompanied by investment in social sectors and a genuine modernization of education to help close the gap, the sectors of the population affected by poverty will ultimately reject what we here today quite rightly think should be permanent values of modern societies.” For this reason, we wish to reiterate our understanding of and solidarity with the problems of hunger and poverty suffered by countries in other regions, in particular the least developed countries, the majority of which are in Africa, and certain countries in our region that are particularly vulnerable. Whatever may be the standpoint chosen for consideration of the great issues contained on the agenda of this fifty-first session of the General Assembly, we should always approach them with the desire to respond appropriately. The organization of social life always presupposes normative vision and action. The United Nations has proved its capacity to propose to the international community a body of norms whose effectiveness depends on their universal application. The fundamental debate that has been going on in the area of human rights since the creation of the United Nations has resulted in the enshrinement of those rights in legally binding texts and in declarations and programmes of action stemming from the major conferences held by the United Nations in 8 recent years. We are encouraged by the fact that that enshrinement is encompassing the rights of solidarity in the context of problems concerning the environment, population, society, women’s issues and housing. The Government of Panama is mindful of the complex dialectic interactions between peace, human rights and development. The desire to ensure effective democratization in national life and to foster development is at the core of the activities the Panamanian Government is carrying out to benefit children, young people, women, indigenous and rural populations, the disabled and certain particularly disadvantaged urban groups. The Government’s activities relating to fulfilment of the Platform for Action adopted at the Beijing Conference on Women represent commitments strengthened by our justifiable satisfaction over Panama’s fairly encouraging indicators regarding the advancement of women. The accent is currently being placed on the sector of the female population living in unfavourable conditions of health, housing and education and having little participation in political life. In the context of this constantly renewed effort to find the best solutions to national problems, the delegation of Panama wishes to express to the Secretary-General our thanks and recognition for the cooperation activities that have been carried out in Panama by the United Nations Development Programme, as a recognized and neutral facilitator, to promote national consensus on the Panama Canal issues. The successes already achieved in this area demonstrate that the actions of the United Nations its system in Panama are effective and have an impact on the life of the nation. Three months ago Panama ratified the Convention on the Law of the Sea, the implementation of which has become more effective since the establishment of the International Seabed Authority and the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. Panama, as a maritime country, welcomes these promising developments and hopes that there will be further achievements in the application of the Convention. The Government of Panama has great expectations for its future participation as a member of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme and in the Commission on Sustainable Development. We will strive to make our contribution and to prove our commitment to overcoming environmental problems. The strategic importance of issues associated with biodiversity is such that my Government hopes that new and additional funds will be made available to promote activities in this field. We have the same hope in connection with climate change, the ozone layer, desertification and the conservation of forests. In the area of international peace and security, we reconfirm our agreement with those Governments that advocate a total ban on the production, use, trafficking in and transfer of anti-personnel land-mines. With respect to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which has been signed by Panama, we continue to hold the same view as in previous years. In this respect, we welcome Brazil’s initiative to make the southern hemisphere a zone free of nuclear weapons. This estimable initiative adds to the efforts of Latin America and the Caribbean to foster a world free of nuclear weapons, efforts that were launched with the signing and ratification of the Tlatelolco Treaty. Upon learning of the response of the International Court of Justice to the request issued by the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, my Government welcomed the backing given by that principal organ of the United Nations to the negotiations on a ban on nuclear weapons, including tests. We signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty on the understanding that implicit in it is a commitment on the part of world Powers to achieve a nuclear-weapon-free world. Panama has always supported those who believe that if a part of the funds absorbed by the arms industry could be made available to combat poverty, ignorance and disease, there would be positive changes all over the face of our Earth. Panama has already expressed in the United Nations its position and views on the problem of drugs, most recently at the high-level segment of the substantive session of the Economic and Social Council in June. We would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm our support of Mexico’s initiative, co-sponsored by the Rio Group, on convening a special session of the General Assembly in 1998, which would offer an opportunity to update the various debates, concepts, approaches and consensus positions on the issue of illicit drugs and related crimes. The Government of Panama has made significant progress in developing the proposal presented to the Rio Group to create a multilateral centre in Panama to combat drug trafficking and related crimes. 9 We are glad to announce the recent holding in our country of the first international talks on the creation of that centre, attended by Bolivia, Ecuador, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, Venezuela and Panama. We agreed at that meeting to hold another meeting in December 1996 to take decisions on the training module included in the plans for the multilateral training and research institute to combat drug trafficking and related crimes. Another meeting will take place early in 1997 to study and decide upon the operational module as a means of combatting drug trafficking and related crimes, which is essentially civilian in nature and cooperating with the military forces that will lend additional support. In a similar vein, the Panamanian Government also lends its support and solidarity to the international community’s struggle to combat terrorism. Terrorist activity, no matter what the reasoning behind it may be, is criminal and immoral, and exceeds all limits. Its sole face is that of fanaticism. Terrorism is the offspring of the apocalypse, nihilistic and gratuitous in nature, capable of crushing human freedom and claiming a terrible harvest of innocent lives. Other topics on the agenda of this session of the General Assembly are of particular interest to the Government of Panama. Negotiations on establishing an Agenda for Development oblige us not only to talk about this but to act, prompted by the universal duty to cooperate which encompasses all individuals and all communities. The common undertaking of sustainable development should be carried out through shared responsibilities. For this reason, we welcome the decision taken by Member States to politically reactivate the Economic and Social Council. Now, what is needed is the political will to equip the United Nations with an Agenda for Development which will not limit development solely to its economic component: though that is necessary, it is not enough. Development should also provide the key part of common well-being and be placed at the service of purposes consciously accepted by all, purposes that will enrich the lives of all, purposes that will enhance the creative capacity of every individual and be securely grounded in a human dimension which implies faith in oneself and paves the way for progress. Whatever approach is taken in addressing the major issues on the agenda of this fifty-first session of the General Assembly, the human being, his hopes and sufferings and the obstacles and opportunities he faces to improve the quality of his life, should always have precedence. In spite of the dazzling clarity with which we perceive this certainty, it would seem that we sometimes lose sight of the fact that the human individual is the ultimate focus of this Organization and of all the agreements and plans of actions that we arrive at within it and stemming from it. All our decisions should be designed to meet the demands, needs, requirements and interests of human beings. This requires a revitalization of the ethical side of the United Nations. My delegation appreciates the endeavours of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. He has placed his unquestioned talent and efforts at the service of the Organization. His unswerving internationalism and his commitment to world peace and development mean that Panama takes great pleasure in expressing its gratitude for his work. A year ago we were welcoming the effort made by two great men who were struggling tirelessly to consolidate peace agreements and move towards peaceful coexistence in the Middle East. Today one of those men is no longer with us. Panama wishes to express a posthumous tribute of recognition to Yitzhak Rabin, a martyr of the peace process between two peoples, Palestine and Israel, with which our people and our Government have deeply-rooted friendly relations because the children of those peoples live together on our soil and are helping us to build a better country. Now that fratricidal struggle is casting both nations into mourning, Panama reaffirms its support for all the initiatives and resolutions that will strengthen peace and promote tolerance. We are very concerned about the events which took place as a result of changes effected in the Holy Sites of Jerusalem, to which the Security Council referred in its resolution 1073 (1996) on Saturday, 28 September 1996. The Security Council called for an immediate cessation and reversal of all acts that had resulted in the aggravation of the situation and that had negative implications for the Middle East peace process. It likewise called for the safety and protection of the Palestinian civilians to be ensured. Finally, it called for the immediate resumption of negotiations within the Middle East peace process on its agreed basis and the timely implementation of the agreements reached. Another matter of concern to us relates to the Chinese people, a people with which Panama has maintained relations since very early in the last century. My country has benefitted from a continued migration which, from the building of the interoceanic railway to 10 that of the Canal, has contributed to our development and to the fashioning of our national identity. This deep-rooted and lasting relationship with the Chinese people has strengthened our nation’s and our Governments’ support for the principle of the universality of the United Nations. Panama maintains diplomatic relations with the Republic of China and feels bound to state that those relations have been fruitful and beneficial. They have always been characterized by respect and have been receptive to and incorporated the interests and needs of both sides. For this reason, we feel that our relations are exemplary in the best possible sense. On the other hand, in a few years’ time Panama will assume full responsibility for the interoceanic Canal and, in the context of that responsibility, Panama must acknowledge that the People’s Republic of China is one of the main users of the waterway both in terms of the number of vessels and in terms of the volume of cargo originating in or destined for the People’s Republic of China. We are encouraged by the fact that a significant number of Chinese citizens and companies on both sides of the Taiwan Strait live and work in harmony in Panama, where they have won the respect and affection of Panamanians because of their diligent hard work. We are convinced of the validity of the principle of one China, and we reaffirm our support for the efforts of both parties to unify the Chinese people. We reiterate our conviction that they will achieve that purpose in a framework of mutual respect that gradually helps to build trust between the two parties and create a favourable environment for Chinese reunification. The question of Security Council reform, the increase in the number of its members and other related matters is of irrefutable importance for the United Nations, as is the question of the strengthening of the role of the United Nations. It is unacceptable to try to change the membership of the Security Council solely on the basis of supposed essential features that make certain countries more suitable than others to join decision-making organs and hold seats in the Security Council. Because of the functions it performs, today’s state of affairs and a moral commitment to the future of the United Nations, we call for a reform of the Security Council that will provide regional representation, an increase in both membership categories — permanent and non-permanent — and equitable distribution. The Government of Panama regards the Italian proposal as a democratic approach that responds to the concern for representativity. We were encouraged by the willingness to negotiate, with a view to achieving consensus, voiced by the Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs last week from this rostrum. In the issues of Security Council reform and the strengthening of the role of the United Nations, the best possible ideas and loftiest purposes should come into play. We wish to see a better, more effective and more representative Security Council. We would also like to see opportunities to participate in the United Nations go hand in hand with the responsibility to act to ensure international peace and security and for these to be seen from the perspective of their relationships with democracy and development. The Panamanian Government has decided to reaffirm its support for Japan and Germany having permanent seats on the Security Council. I could not conclude without fulfilling my duty as a Panamanian to reiterate before this world Organization that Panama is ready to assume sovereign control over the Panama Canal in 1999, with all the administrative, operational and security responsibilities entailed in the full implementation of the Torrijos-Carter Treaties. Panamanians’ shouldering of the main responsibility for the Panama Canal will coincide with the advent of the twenty-first century. We shall march resolutely into the new millennium, looking forward to a promising future in which it will become clear that Panama’s universalist vocation has never wavered, and we strongly reaffirm that vocation. Panama’s universalism, I am proud to say, is an ethical one, capable of absorbing the most diverse currents of thought and human action, whether from the North, South, East or West. Our geography made us this way, and our history opened us up to the world — obviously, commercially, but above all culturally. As of 31 December 1999 Panama will be better integrated in the world because it will be able to make free use of its entire territory for the integration of its nation. We shall then have to cope with the tremendous need to make full use of our potential and abilities and to fully exercise our rights and fulfil our responsibilities. On 31 December 1999 the Panamanian nation will be at the centre of an excitement sparked by the joining in our veins and souls, of the past and the future, of the struggles of generations, of joy and suffering and of the many endeavours that all bear the same name, a name that designates a common objective, a single mission that many times engendered fervour and even heroism. In the twenty-first century, Panama will still be a small country. What will be different, I repeat, is the full integration of the Panamanian nation in its territory, the simple but intense and far-reaching meeting of a nation with the entirety of its territory. The existence of an interoceanic waterway, the Panama Canal, in that territory will prompt us to pursue, step up and deepen our efforts to establish the right approaches and institutions to complete our sovereign life as a nation and to facilitate the fulfilment of our universalist vocation. That universalism will make it possible for us to continue to participate in the realities of a globalized and interdependent world with the desire to make it a source of mutual enrichment, openness, initiative and creativity. It is a fortunate historical coincidence that on Wednesday of this week, 2 October 1996, the General Council of the World Trade Organization (WTO) decided to accept the report of its subsidiary organ concerning Panama’s accession, thus ensuring its entry as a full member of the World Trade Organization. We welcome the fact that, with the accession of Panama, all countries in the Latin American region have become members of the WTO. We all aspire to see a United Nations that will be ready to deal with present and future problems. Panama hopes to contribute to the vital consensuses and aspires to become part of the necessary renewal of the United Nations. As part of the Panamanian experience since the creation of the United Nations, I personally have taken part in the Organization’s intergovernmental machinery often enough to be able to speak of faith. With faith in the United Nations, we have often been capable of moving mountains of mistrust and misunderstanding, which have covered the world in a landscape of conflict and deadlock. Thanks to that faith in the United Nations, today we can speak of new generations of human rights and new generations of peacekeeping operations, which, in the view of men and women of my generation are proof that the United Nations represents a victory over the erosive effects of time and history. My delegation believes that the United Nations has accomplished wonderful tasks through its constructive consideration of various manifestations of human diversity and through the taking of decisions that give them a productive, secure and peaceful place on Earth.  ﻿Please allow me first of all to offer my sincere congratulations to Ambassador Razali Ismail on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its current session. I am convinced that with his outstanding ability and rich experience he will fulfil this lofty mission with distinction. I would also like to express my thanks to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral for the important contribution he made during his presidency of the last session. The 1990s are a period of momentous transition, during which international relations are undergoing the most far-reaching changes since the Second World War. The collapse and disappearance of the bipolar structure has rekindled hope that the world will become a community of countries with equal rights for all, rather than one dominated by a single big Power. Multipolarity is gaining momentum in a global as well as a regional context. Major Powers are readjusting their relationships. On the other hand, the multitude of developing countries have become increasingly aware of the need to bolster their strength through concerted efforts. The Non-Aligned Movement continues to uphold the ideals and principles of independence, independent decision-making and non-affiliation with blocs, and is vigorously pushing for a new just and democratic international order of peace and equality. Regional economic organizations, which are displaying great vitality, are expanding their role in promoting regional cooperation and development in their respective areas. Asia’s upsurge is having a significant impact on the world’s political and economic configurations. The world is deeply impressed with the vigorous economic development of Asia, East Asia in particular. The convening of the first Asia-Europe meeting highlighted the changes now being seen and marked an important new beginning for an equal, cooperative relationship between Asia and Europe. As the world moves towards multipolarity, the forces for peace are bolstered. The call for dialogue and cooperation, as against confrontation and conflict, has become louder. In the Asia-Pacific region, efforts to maintain peace and stability and promote common development through dialogue, consultation and cooperation have yielded positive results. An agreement on confidence-building in the military field along border areas has been concluded between China on the one hand, and the Russian Federation, Kazakstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan on the other; this agreement governs a boundary over 3,000 kilometres in length. The Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum has succeeded in bringing Asia-Pacific countries together to consider security issues facing the region. The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC) has become a useful mechanism for promoting trade and investment liberalization as well as economic and technological cooperation in the region. The past year has seen peace returning to a number of war-torn countries and regions. We are pleased to note that the peace accord reached between the belligerents in Bosnia and Herzegovina is being implemented, and that Yugoslavia and Croatia have normalized their relations. It is hoped that peace will soon be fully restored to the region of the former Yugoslavia in order to put an end to the prolonged conflict in that part of Europe. The impact on Africa of the drastic changes in the post-cold war international situation is waning. Africa is entering a new historical era in which it is striving for peace, stability and development. Many burning issues in Africa have already been or are in the process of being settled gradually. At the same time, however, some 14 countries and regions are still plagued by the scourge of war. We hope that the international community will continue to give attention and attach importance to African issues so as to help bring lasting peace and development to the whole African continent at an early date. But the path towards peace is tortuous. After some major gains in preceding years, the Middle East peace process has hit snags again. China is concerned at this development. We hope that all the parties concerned will strive for an early comprehensive and just settlement of this issue by strictly observing the agreements already reached and resuming negotiations and dialogue on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions. Peace should have prevailed in the post-cold-war world, in which equal members of the international community should respect each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, refrain from invading each other or interfering in each other’s internal affairs, and live in harmony with each other, in a spirit of seeking common ground and putting aside differences. However, the reality is that the world today is far from tranquil because the cold-war mentality dies hard and hegemonism has repeatedly raised its ugly head. Interference in other countries’ internal affairs under various pretexts, and indulgence in sanctions-wielding or even the use of force are trampling on the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and all accepted norms of international relations, thereby threatening and undermining world peace and stability. Recent controversies in international forums, generated by the issue of sanctions, signify that in the context of a growing trend towards multipolarity, hegemonism and power politics will become increasingly untenable. The vigorous expansion of international trade and investment and the rapid advance of science and technology have led to closer economic ties between countries and regions, thus accelerating the process of economic globalization. This presents a rare opportunity to both developed and developing countries. By riding the tide of globalization and relying on their own unremitting efforts, some developing countries have achieved sustained and rapid economic growth, thereby giving a great impetus to world economic growth. These and other changes on the world scene have widened the prospects of international cooperation. Regrettably, however, a counter-current of trade protectionism has recently arisen in the ranks of developed countries, designed to curtail the development of developing countries and exclude them from the decision-making process on major world economic issues. Any act prejudicial to developing countries will in the final analysis undermine the interests of developed countries. International economic exchanges and cooperation should be built on the basis of mutual complementarity. Facing the tide of economic globalization, neither developed nor developing countries should resort to trade protectionism. Rather, both should make the necessary readjustments and reforms in the light of their own national conditions in order to promote their welfare and keep out of harm’s way. Only by enhancing international exchanges and cooperation on the basis of equality and mutual benefit can we jointly cope with new problems arising in the course of world economic advances and achieve sustained common development and prosperity. No one should overlook the unevenness of world development and the ever widening gap between developed and developing countries. Caught in the web of relentless international competition, the least-developed countries are in distress, and the risk of marginalization is looming large. To make matters worse, the amount of official development assistance from richer countries is shrinking every year, with more stringent conditions attached. The coffers of the United Nations Capital Development Fund are drying up, and future prospects are grim indeed. The international community, and especially the developed countries, are duty-bound to take effective measures to reverse this dire situation. The promotion of economic development and the prosperity of all countries, and the elimination of poverty should always be at the top of the United Nations agenda. Strengthening international cooperation in the field of the environment and development is a vital link in global efforts to achieve sustainable development. Four years after the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the public has become increasingly aware of the importance of environmental protection. Sustainable development has become a major objective in the socio-economic development strategies of all countries. However, international cooperation in this domain is disappointingly lagging. Developed countries have failed to live up to their pledges under Agenda 21 in terms of funding and technology transfer, yet they demand that developing countries accept obligations exceeding their capability at their present level of development. It is hoped that next year’s special session on environment and development will be able to resolve these issues. 15 Poverty, unemployment, the problem of refugees, crime, over-population, environmental deterioration, drug abuse and terrorism — these scourges remain formidable and impede global stability and development. In the face of these challenges, all countries should not only carry out social development policies commensurate with their own national conditions, but should also actively cooperate with one another in line with the principles of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit. The United Nations needs to enhance its social programmes focusing on developing countries. The international community at large should press for the implementation of the follow-up actions of the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development, the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development and the Beijing Fourth World Conference on Women in favour of universal social development. Our Organization has gone through vicissitudes in the course of half a century. Enormous changes have taken place on the world scene. It is imperative for the United Nations to carry out appropriate rational reforms so that it can better perform the noble mission of the times and usher a better world into the twenty-first century. All reforms must be conducive to realizing the purposes and principles of the Charter and to improving the efficiency of the United Nations. They must also contribute to a more positive and effective United Nations role in promoting world peace and common development. They must conform to the principle of the sovereign equality of all States, and reflect the aspirations of the developing countries, which comprise more than two-thirds of the membership. Democratic consultations should be practiced throughout this process. We are confident that we will be able to achieve a broad consensus as long as all of us engage in patient deliberations in the spirit of openness and fair play, and with a readiness to consider all legitimate concerns. The United Nations continues to be plagued by a serious financial crisis. The Organization cannot function normally without firm and reliable fiscal resources. We call on the major countries whose financial contributions to the Organization are in arrears to fulfil the financial obligations set forth in the Charter by unconditionally paying up in full without further delay. Major progress has been made in the field of arms control and disarmament since the last session of the General Assembly. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty resulting from two and a half years of negotiations has finally been adopted by the General Assembly.China actively participated in the Treaty negotiations and displayed maximum flexibility, thereby contributing significantly to the final conclusion of the Treaty. We have always stood for the complete prohibition and thorough destruction of nuclear weapons. In our view, the comprehensive test-ban Treaty is only a first step in the entire process of comprehensive nuclear disarmament. There are still large stockpiles of nuclear arms in the world. Some nuclear Powers still refuse to undertake not to be the first to use such weapons. We still have a long way to go, and must continue to work strenuously in order to achieve the ultimate goal of the total elimination of nuclear weapons. In order to expedite nuclear disarmament and free ourselves from the danger of nuclear war forever, I wish to reiterate the following calls on behalf of the Chinese Government: first, the major nuclear Powers should renounce their policy of nuclear deterrence; those possessing huge nuclear arsenals should continue to cut back their stockpiles drastically. Secondly, all nuclear States should assume the obligation not to be the first to use nuclear weapons at any time or under any circumstances; they should unconditionally renounce the use or threat of use of such weapons against non-nuclear States or nuclear-free zones; and they should conclude international instruments to that effect without delay. Thirdly, those States which have deployed nuclear weapons overseas should withdraw them completely; all nuclear States should pledge support for moves to set up nuclear-free zones; they should respect the status of such zones and assume corresponding obligations. Fourthly, all States should refrain from developing or deploying weapons systems in outer space and missile defence systems that undermine strategic security and stability. Fifthly, all States should negotiate with a view to concluding an international convention on the complete prohibition and total destruction of nuclear weapons. Since mankind was able to produce nuclear weapons in the twentieth century, it is fully capable of abolishing them in the twenty-first century. The Chinese Government and people are ready to join hands with all Governments 16 and peoples of the world to strive for the realization of this lofty goal. My country continues to press forward along the road of reform, opening up and modernization. Our economy maintains a healthy momentum. The macroeconomic environment continues to improve. We anticipate a growth rate of around 10 per cent this year. Inflation will be kept below 10 per cent. Despite severe natural disasters in some parts of the country, we have still managed to gather a bumper harvest of summer crops this year. Grain output for the entire year is expected to top the previous year’s figures. The Ninth Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development and the Outline of the Long-Range Objectives to the Year 2010 were inaugurated this year. They depict a promising future for China’s modernization drive at the turn of the century. By the year 2000, when our population will have had a net increase of 300 million, we expect to quadruple our 1980 per capita gross national product. And by the year 2010 our gross national product is anticipated to be twice that of the year 2000. Then we will have put in place a viable socialist market economy. Seventeen years of reform and opening up have brought about a fourfold increase in our gross national product. Our overall national strength will grow further in another 15 years. Yet China will still be a developing country with relatively low ranking in terms of indicators such as per capita gross national product. China’s development will only help to bolster the elements making for peace. We pose no threat to anyone anywhere, but will only help to strengthen the cause of world peace, stability and development. On the other hand, if China fails to achieve economic development and its population of 1.2 billion is mired in poverty, that would indeed be ominous for world peace and stability. China will resume the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong as from 1 July 1997. This will be a milestone in the great cause of our national reunification. It is also a good example of how countries can peacefully resolve issues left over by history. Preparations are under way to put into effect our resumption of the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong. We are fully capable of ensuring a smooth transfer of government and transition in Hong Kong. After Hong Kong’s return to the embrace of the motherland, we will put into effect the policy of “one country, two systems”. As a Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, and in conformity with the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Hong Kong will be administered by the Hong Kong people. It will enjoy a high degree of autonomy. The existing social and economic system and way of life will remain unchanged, and the laws currently in force in Hong Kong will be basically maintained. Hong Kong will retain its status as an international trade, financial and shipping centre, free port and separate customs territory. Its long-term stability and prosperity will be guaranteed. Foreign economic interests in Hong Kong will be accommodated. Twenty-five years ago, at its twenty-sixth session, the General Assembly adopted the historic resolution 2758 (XXVI), solemnly declaring the restoration to the People’s Republic of China all its lawful rights in the United Nations. That resolution thoroughly settled the question of China’s representation in the United Nation in all aspects — political, legal and procedural. There is but one China in the world and Taiwan is an inalienable part of its sacred territory. “Peaceful reunification and one country with two systems” — this is our unswerving guideline for the settlement of the Taiwan question. This question involves a cardinal principle of China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and the great task of reunification. It is a purely internal affair of China which will brook no outside interference. The Chinese Government and people are determined to carry through the struggle against all attempts to split their territory or create an independent Taiwan. No force on Earth can hold back China’s great cause of reunification. The world is on the march at top speed. New contradictions and problems are constantly arising. The profound changes in the international scene have brought forth rare opportunities as well as serious challenges. Let us seize the opportunities, meet the challenges and push forward the cause of peace and development. Such is the glorious mission which our times have bestowed on us. The Chinese Government and people are ready to join with all other Governments and peoples in this endeavour. ﻿I wish to extend my delegation’s sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. It is with great pleasure that I assure you of Lesotho’s support and cooperation as you conduct the deliberations of this body. Let me also take this opportunity to pay special tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the skilful manner in which he guided the work of the historic session of the General Assembly last year. My delegation truly appreciates his leadership and his tireless dedication to the heavy responsibilities entrusted to him during the past year. I also take this opportunity to express our satisfaction with the sterling work that the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has been doing under the very difficult conditions of reduced financial resources. Were it not for his tenacity, our Organization would not have been able to hold together as it has done. The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations last year provided an opportunity for reflection about the global mission of our Organization. We retraced our past and took stock of the failures and notable successes that the United Nations had engraved in the historic record of half a century of its existence. We also looked ahead with renewed determination, resolved to create for mankind a future that would be brighter than the past, amidst the euphoria of hope and expectation in the new international order that is still emerging from the ashes of the cold war. Even as we did so, we were aware how great the potential was for a relapse to the pitfalls of past years and for the re-emergence of complacencies that could render our new hopes and expectations vain and futile. A deliberate effort is required on the part of the international community to build on the past experiences of our Organization and to identify and reinforce the positive trends that the end of the cold war era has yielded. The first half-century was characterized by cold-war conflicts, the struggle against colonialism, the constant threat of a nuclear holocaust and the fight against apartheid. All these are either behind us or considerably abated. Our attention must remain focused on how we can give the twenty-first century a United Nations equipped to serve as an effective instrument in the evolving global environment for the attainment of the noble goals enshrined in its Charter. A universal consensus for the reform and revitalization of the United Nations was highlighted in the solemn Declaration that was adopted in this very Hall a year ago by, inter alia, 128 world Heads of State and Government. The momentum for the realization of that aspiration and for the implementation of the commitments that were made by the world community should not be lost. The actions and the path that we have to take are known to all of us. We would like to see a more democratized United Nations, whose credibility and legitimacy are enhanced by the representativeness of its structures. We have identified the need for measures to ensure greater consultation between the Security Council and the General Assembly, particularly on crisis situations, and the need to restore the role and authority of the General Assembly in the decision-making processes of our Organization, without compromising the speed with which the Security Council may take its decisions. We have cautioned against regional selectivity in the attention paid by our Organization to international crisis situations and have advocated a demonstration of good faith and the upholding of the principle of the sanctity of human life in the enforcement of United Nations resolutions. We have also stood in favour of exploring a new, balanced formula for equitable burden-sharing, as well as for a renewed commitment on the part of all Member States to fulfil their financial obligations to the United Nations in full and on time, just as we have joined in the call to effect economies and improve efficiency through the transformation of the management techniques within the United Nations system. 14 The events and experiences we have witnessed since the last session of the Assembly once again present us with mixed signals. On the one hand, we have seen a steady expansion of the frontiers of peace, tolerance and democracy, while, on the other, some problems that are rooted in the past not only have persisted but have been compounded by new challenges arising from the evolving international environment. Thanks to the efforts of the international community, the carnage in the former Yugoslavia has been brought to an end. However, a conscious effort is still required to give permanence to the positive trends that are still evolving in Bosnia and to suppress the ever present risk that the peace dividends already gained can be reversed. In the Middle East uncertainty and the new obstacles that have emerged in the path of a negotiated peace have thrown new doubts over the prospects for an early restoration to the Palestinian people of their inalienable right to self-determination and statehood. We appeal to both Israel and the Palestinian Authority to adhere in good faith to the provisions of the peace agreements they have concluded and to implement them within the agreed time- frame, pursuant to the Declaration of Principles they signed in Washington in 1993. The prerequisite for peace remains the withdrawal of Israel and the cessation of the establishment of new Israeli settlements in the occupied Arab and Palestinian territories, in compliance with the resolutions of the United Nations. In Western Sahara recent developments have demonstrated that peace in that area remains elusive. How long will the will of the Saharan people for self- determination and independence be frustrated? The withdrawal of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara in May of this year due to the lack of cooperation by the parties raises a real prospect for a resumption of violence. The international community must act now to reverse the tragic trends and to persuade the parties to cooperate in the implementation of the United Nations plan for the independence of Western Sahara. In Burundi, Liberia and Somalia the situation regrettably continues to defy the efforts of the international community to restore peace and stability. We appeal to the international community to support the current initiatives spearheaded by the Organization of African Unity and the neighbouring countries of Burundi aimed at protecting democracy in that country. Lesotho shares Africa’s deep disappointment at the demonstrable lack of interest on the part of the international community in extending the necessary material support to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) countries that are engaged in the regional peacekeeping effort in Liberia. This, regrettably, calls into question the world’s commitment to the universality of the sanctity of human life. Despite the remaining hotbeds of instability, fortunately all is not doom and gloom in Africa, even in the area of conflict resolution. The major strides that have been made in southern Africa to free the subregion of conflicts is a source of great satisfaction. If the momentum for peace is kept in Angola, there is no doubt that a subregion long associated with conflicts will have established durable peace and stability. The implementation of the Lusaka Protocol — particularly the establishment of a unified army and the formation of the Government of National Unity — are within reach, and with more concerted action by the international community should soon be attained. Throughout southern Africa, political stability, peace, democracy and human rights continue to be deepened. Multiparty general elections are being held, and other political and constitutional reforms are being put in place to ensure transparency and predictability, especially in the electoral systems. The establishment by the Southern African Development Community of the Organ on Politics, Defence and Security reaffirms the region’s resolve to consolidate the gains that have been bequeathed by the demise of apartheid and to face head-on the challenges of peace and democracy. These measures have contributed to the strong performance registered by the national economies of southern Africa in 1995, as well as to the improvement in the overall investment climate of the region. We hope that the international community will continue to assist southern Africa in its reconstruction efforts, particularly by encouraging the flow of private investment as a contribution to the regional efforts for the economic recovery of the subcontinent. The past 12 months have presented the world with great opportunities for the attainment of durable peace. Yet, I regret to say, we have sometimes failed to take advantage of them. A scourge that has stalked humankind 15 for the past 50 years has been the growth in the arsenal of armaments, especially nuclear ones. Last year, in a historic achievement, the nations of the world agreed to extend indefinitely the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In doing so they undertook to achieve a comprehensive test-ban treaty by September of this year. It is with unbounded joy that we are able to stand here today and say that that goal has been attained. To be sure, it was not attained with ease, but the fact that it was achieved is a source of great encouragement that humankind is slowly but surely moving towards the total elimination of nuclear weapons. Although Lesotho shares the view that the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) that was adopted here in New York last month is not perfect, we regard it as a giant step forward that will serve to put the nuclear-weapon States on notice that the rest of the international community is serious about its aspiration to a nuclear-free world. In spite of the fact that the cold war has ended and that the START Treaties have been concluded, tens of thousands of nuclear weapons are still deployed by nuclear States, and there is a very real possibility that many more States could develop such weapons. Worldwide opposition to weapons of mass destruction has resulted in Conventions banning biological and chemical weapons, but as yet there are no concrete proposals to negotiate a similar convention to outlaw nuclear weapons. The fact that nuclear weapons are not prohibited by convention weakens the willingness of many non-nuclear States to abide by the Biological Weapons Convention and the Chemical Weapons Convention. These States perceive an imbalance in the retention of certain types of weapons of mass destruction by some States, mostly States of the North, while other weapons of mass destruction, often held by States of the South — are banned. Lesotho believes that the proliferation of nuclear- weapons technology and the manufacture of nuclear weapons constitute a very serious problem which the international community cannot and must not ignore. The fact that only a handful of people have been brought to justice for the millions of crimes against humanity and the serious violations of humanitarian law committed since the end of the Second World War has not altered the international community’s view that perpetrators of international crimes should be tried and punished for their acts. More recently, the growing global outrage against international crimes has been demonstrated by the creation of the two ad hoc International Tribunals for the prosecution of crimes in the former Yugoslavia and in Rwanda. These Tribunals were established by the Security Council to have jurisdiction over the most heinous crimes in the world: genocide, other crimes against humanity and serious violations of humanitarian law. It is therefore a matter of concern that since their inception both Tribunals have been plagued by inadequate and short-term financing and have not received adequate budgets from this Assembly. It is also a matter of concern that very few Member States have enacted legislation permitting effective cooperation with the Tribunals. The international community must send a clear message to those who commit genocide and other crimes against humanity that they cannot escape to fully account for their actions before international law. We can do this by providing the much-needed support and resources to enable the ad hoc International Tribunals to bring to justice those who are responsible for atrocities both in Bosnia and in Rwanda. Although Lesotho has not yet promulgated implementation legislation for the Tribunals, it remains committed to fully cooperating with the two Tribunals in accordance with the provisions of Security Council resolutions. We hope that the international community can build on the experiences and the already noteworthy success achieved by these Tribunals to pursue the project of the establishment of a permanent international criminal court. While we recognize the important work of the Preparatory Committee on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court, we are of the view that the General Assembly should enhance the Preparatory Committee’s work by mandating it to begin serious negotiations of a consolidated draft treaty based on the International Law Commission’s 1994 draft statute. The present momentum for the establishment of a permanent international criminal tribunal should not be lost, but should be matched by commensurate political will to ensure that the work is completed in time for a conference in 1998. Development and the promotion of international cooperation as enshrined in the Charter, will continue to be the principal objectives of the United Nations. The recently concluded mid-term review of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s 16 has shown that many of the social and economic problems which led to the adoption of the Agenda in 1991 still exist and that poverty and unemployment in Africa are expected to increase substantially. Furthermore, the estimated resource mobilization levels in the Agenda are still far from being attained. Consequently, the mid-term review recommended that African Governments should continue to promote, inter alia, economic reforms, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, good governance and administrative reform. For their part, international partners should seek to mobilize substantial new resources from all sources — public and private — and from traditional and new sources, to find a solution to Africa’s external debt problem and to enhance Africa’s recovery through trade facilitation and improved market access. The United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa, which was launched by the Secretary-General in March this year, promises to break new ground by assuring the cooperation of the whole system, including the Bretton Woods institutions, in tackling the intractable problem of accelerating the development of the African continent. While this expression of interest in our continent is appreciated, we must also stress that the implementation of the several initiatives currently on the table must be carried out in very close consultation with the African countries themselves, to avoid the duplication of efforts. The Organization of African Unity’s Cairo Plan of Action is relevant in this regard. As we engage in this introspection one year after our historic Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, it is pertinent to inquire to what extent we are all fulfilling our commitment undertaken during the various global conferences, all of which — except the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights — have a development dimension. Perhaps the one that towers above all others in its significance for alleviating the plight of citizens of least developed countries, such as mine, is last year’s Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development. In Lesotho there is a serious effort to attain the target of devoting 20 per cent of our budget to the health and education sectors, but we have not witnessed a corresponding commitment on the part of our development partners, as was agreed at Copenhagen. The Commission for Social Development has been given the primary responsibility for the follow-up and review of the implementation of the Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action. Commitment 2 of the Declaration and chapter II of the Programme of Action both deal with the goal of poverty eradication. In this connection, 1997 is a crucial year, being the first year of the United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty. By its resolution 50/161, the General Assembly decided to hold a special session in the year 2000 for an overall review and appraisal and of the implementation of the World Summit for Social Development and to consider further actions and initiatives. We support the view that, to enable this to happen, the Commission should meet annually, that the length of its sessions should be extended and that its membership should be increased. Measures to ensure that women have the same degree of access as men to economic resources and opportunities are of equal importance for the attainment of economic progress. Poverty can be eradicated only through the empowerment of the poor. United Nations efforts should therefore be coordinated in such a manner that all its activities for poverty eradication fully take into account the gender perspective. The ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women was supposed to be followed by the revision of all laws that act as an impediment to the social and economic advancement of women. In Lesotho this goal, although not yet reached, is still being actively pursued. Lesotho has joined the other countries of southern Africa in signing two Protocols to the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Treaty recently, one of which deals with politics, defence and security and the other with cooperation in combating transboundary crime, especially trafficking in narcotics and money-laundering. A central element of the Protocol establishing an Organ on Politics, Defence and Security is the commitment to work for the protection and promotion of human rights in the region. Our endeavours in this regard are intended to reinforce the United Nations own programmes. The increase in crime, particularly transnational crime, has a considerable effect on the economies of 17 many countries. New worldwide strategies are therefore urgently needed for combating this malaise. However, developing countries cannot bear the economic burden of combating transnational crime by themselves. Technical cooperation and assistance activities to develop the criminal-justice capacities of developing countries should therefore be accorded a high priority. The activities of the Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Division — particularly its training courses, seminars and workshops for criminal-justice personnel — are to be commended. Let me conclude by observing that together we have the capacity to make the United Nations of the next century a veritable instrument for meeting mankind’s aspirations for a better world in all respects. In our interdependent world, the United Nations has to become an efficient working forum for searching for universal consensus, a conscious regulator of the integration processes and a vehicle for establishing a stable world order. We have deep confidence in the potential of the joint efforts of the entire international community in its capability to enter the twenty-first century in an atmosphere of peace, development and joint creative work, and to provide comprehensive security for all, as is called for by the priority interests of humankind.﻿At the outset, I would like to congratulate the President on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. Given his talent and experience, I am confident that he will guide this session to a successful completion of the noble mission entrusted to it by the Charter of the United Nations. I would also like to express my appreciation and thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas Do Amaral, for his outstanding leadership in accomplishing the tasks of the last session. The end of the cold war has given a decisive impetus to globalization by offering former socialist economies the opportunity to assume their rightful place in the world economy. The challenges posed by extremely rapid transformation are nowhere more graphically depicted than in the current transition of the countries of Eastern and Central Europe and in the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. In addition to severe economic and social problems resulting from the extraordinary changes buffeting the country, the transition process in Armenia has been exacerbated by the transport and energy blockade by neighbouring Azerbaijan, the devastation caused by the massive earthquake of 1988, the conflict between Nagorny-Karabakh and Azerbaijan and the presence of more than 300,000 refugees. Despite such serious circumstances, economic reforms begun after the declaration of independence in 1991 have been continued and expanded over the past year. Having achieved a fair degree of economic stability, the Government of Armenia has designed a medium-term economic programme for 1996-1998. Armenia’s medium- term policy objectives are to maintain financial stability and establish the institutions and mechanisms of a market economy by the end of the programme period in order to lay the foundation for sustainable growth and a viable balance of payments. Consistent with this strategy, the main macroeconomic objectives of the programme are to raise the economic growth rate from 5 per cent in 1995 to 7 per cent in 1998; to lower inflation to 8 per cent by the end of 1998; and to narrow the current account deficit from 26 per cent of the gross domestic product in 1995 to 12 per cent in 1998. To cope with the social pressures involved in the transition process, the reorientation of social expenditures towards the most vulnerable remains a high-priority task. The programme lays emphasis on improving the targeting of the social safety net and intensifying efforts to rationalize social expenditures. While each country is responsible for its own economic policies for development, in accordance with its specific situation and conditions, the reactivation of economic growth and development in all countries requires a concerted effort of the international community. Here, particular attention should be given to the needs of the countries with economies in transition, without this affecting development assistance to the developing countries. 5 The completion of the transition process, the integration of these countries into the world economy and their effective involvement in the multilateral institutions will have a positive impact not only on these countries themselves, but also on the global economy. As we approach the twenty-first century, it is the collective responsibility of the international community to ensure that, within the multidimensional and integrated character of its mandate, the United Nations system is equipped to show leadership in the fulfilment of the commitments made to international cooperation for development. In this context, the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa exemplifies the system’s commitment to collaborative action and its renewed commitment to supporting Africa’s development. Launched last March by the Secretary-General, this Initiative is the largest coordinated action in the history of the United Nations. While it is clear that the implementation of the Initiative will be led at the country level by Governments, the United Nations agencies will hold themselves mutually accountable for achieving this Initiative’s goals. The United Nations, in cooperation with the Bretton Woods institutions, other bodies of the United Nations system, including its specialized agencies, and the World Trade Organization, has a key role in fostering greater coherence, complementarity and coordination in global economic policy-making. The General Assembly should exert greater policy leadership on development issues inasmuch as the Charter of the United Nations provides the Assembly with broad mandates concerning these issues. In accordance with relevant provisions of the Charter, the Economic and Social Council must continue to strengthen its role as the central mechanism for coordinating the policies and activities of the United Nations, its specialized agencies and funds in the economic, social and related fields. It should provide overall guidance and coordination to the United Nations development system. The Council must also promote a coordinated follow-up to the outcomes of major international conferences. Recommendations adopted by the Economic and Social Council at its 1996 substantive session on strengthening collaboration between the United Nations and Bretton Woods institutions and on new arrangements for consultations with non-governmental organizations represented a great step forward. Modern democracy is the political counterpart of the market economic system, and the two go hand in hand. The success of a democracy requires informed and civil discourse and respect for the rule of law and the democratic process, including the expression of the public will through free and fair elections. The recent, vigorously contested presidential election signalled the vitality of the democratic process in Armenia. President Levon Ter-Petrossian’s re-election demonstrates the will of the people in support of the policies pursued thus far by the Government, based on a clear programme and an achievable plan of development. Development cannot be attained in the absence of respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms. Armenia strongly supports the High Commissioner for Human Rights in his efforts to restructure the Centre for Human Rights. The Member States must continue working towards better coordination within the Centre and consolidation of human-rights functions within the United Nations system. Armenia considers self-determination in its multitude of manifestations to be an inalienable human right. In this light, the Nagorny Karabakh conflict continues to concern the Government of Armenia and its peaceful resolution remains Armenia’s top foreign-policy priority. A few months ago, on 12 May, we marked the second anniversary of the cease-fire in the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. At the same time, the parties to the conflict released all prisoners of war and hostages identified by the International Committee of the Red Cross. We consider these developments encouraging and conducive to the overall peace process and to the establishment of a favourable atmosphere for negotiations. Negotiations among the parties within the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Minsk Group on a political agreement continued during the past year. We believe that the signing of the agreement provides the best hope for consolidating the cease-fire and making the peace process irreversible. The elements of the political agreement, and most importantly the security provisions for Nagorny Karabakh, will eventually comprise an inseparable part of any settlement, regardless of the ultimate status of Nagorny Karabakh. Also this year, the parties took an extra step to establish a second negotiating track through immediate and direct contacts, as mandated by the December 1995 meeting of the OSCE Council of Ministers in Budapest. 6 Thus far, several rounds of talks have taken place between Armenia and Azerbaijan in which general aspects of key issues have been discussed. We are hopeful that the representative of Nagorny Karabakh will join in upcoming rounds, for we strongly believe that no final solution can be achieved without Karabakh’s direct participation in the deliberations. The peaceful resolution of the Karabakh conflict remains Armenia’s first priority. Armenia is committed to the talks on both tracks and will remain constructively engaged in both processes. We believe that these two tracks compliment each other and that any progress we make on either can only positively impact the other, ultimately leading to a breakthrough. During the past five years, Armenia has experienced first hand how war, armed conflict and regional instability in general can hamper economic progress and development. Thus, I would like to reiterate Armenia’s commitment to maintaining the existing cease-fire, while eagerly searching for a solution based on good will, mutual compromise and understanding. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction poses a serious threat to both global and regional security and stability. The adoption last month by the General Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty represented the international community’s determination to bring to a completion one of the most sought after non- proliferation and disarmament measures in the history of this Organization. It gave me much satisfaction to sign the Treaty earlier today on behalf of the Government and people of Armenia. Virtually all States Members of the United Nations favour an increase in the membership of the Security Council, reflecting the radical changes in the world and the increase in the Organization’s overall membership. However, during the discussions in the Open-ended Working Group, wide support has been expressed for the view that, if there is no agreement on other categories of membership, expansion should take place, for the time being, in the non-permanent category alone. Armenia favours an increase in the non-permanent membership of the Council that would incorporate the interests of all the regional Groups and correspond to the principle of equitable geographic distribution. In order to carry out its activities, the United Nations needs financial means. The financing of the Organization is the collective responsibility of all Member States and Armenia is not indifferent to the financial situation of the United Nations. I would like to assure the Assembly that Armenia will do its best to fulfil its financial obligations. However, there is an urgent need to adopt a global package of measures to solve the grave financial situation of the United Nations. These measures should contemplate, inter alia, review of the scale of assessments so that it would reflect as accurately as possible the principle of capacity to pay. Allow me to conclude by wishing the General Assembly every success in the demanding work it faces during this session, and by pledging Armenia’s most active and effective cooperation with the delegations of other States.  ﻿In this fifty-first year of the United Nations, we are particularly happy to see Mr. Razali Ismail presiding over this Assembly. This is in no small measure due to his well-deserved high reputation. In large measure, too, our joy comes from my Government’s appreciation of the deep commitment of his Government to national and international economic improvement with equity. We are grateful, too, for the excellent services rendered by his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, in a year in which, under his guidance, reform of the United Nations system truly gathered momentum. Today it is often remarked that there are many signs of the diminishing role of national sovereignty. In the sphere of human rights, the regional adjudicatory systems continue to flourish. Scrutiny is increasingly given by the regional bodies and by such other groupings as the Commonwealth of nations. We have good reason to believe that the new commonwealth of Portuguese- speaking nations will soon travel along the same path. At 21 the United Nations, the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), the Commission on Human Rights and the human rights treaty bodies all continue to scrutinize States for their rectitude in the field of human rights. It certainly seems that the High Commissioner for Human Rights, together with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other executive agencies, are performing a useful watchdog and catalytic function. While this Organization’s efforts at humanitarian intervention have not been overwhelmingly successful, they have certainly provided evidence of the probable reality that absolutist notions of State sovereignty are in decline. Thus, we witness the acknowledgement, by States, of shared interests which contribute to enhanced cooperation in joint efforts to combat the trafficking of narcotics and to preserve and regenerate the environment. Recently, too, the Organization of American States launched an initiative that points in the same direction: the inter-American convention against corruption. Corruption has been a scourge throughout our region, as it is elsewhere. In our region, therefore, we have determined drastically to reduce its impact, even if that might have implications for State sovereignty. In the same way, the flurry of conventions and new organizations on the global environment, and the outpourings of the recent global conferences and summits on social and other issues bear witness to the rapid erosion of absolutist notions of sovereignty. During the past year efforts have been to bring into being the long-awaited International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. Despite certain regrettable limitations, the Appellate Body of the World Trade Organization, the new tribunal for international trade disputes, has now issued its first judgment. We have also settled down to serious work in preparing for an international criminal court, just as the Tribunals for the prosecution of war crimes in the former Yugoslavia and in Rwanda are getting under way. These all constitute a significant development in the international system, in which the State and its citizens are increasingly made subject to international scrutiny. We must insist, however, that what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. We therefore expect that large States, as well as small States, will fully submit themselves to these new Tribunals. We also fully expect that powerful States will refrain from exerting their sovereign wills over smaller or weaker States. On a different subject, we have also witnessed a certain contraction of the public sector both within nations and international organizations. The attrition of the national budgets of capital-exporting and donor countries has had a domino effect on international organizations and capital-importing and recipient countries. So-called reductions in force and other forms of structural adjustment have therefore become a painful way of life. In this respect, this Organization and my country and many others have not been spared. At the same time, my country and many others have now established modern and rational systems for the imposition and collection of indirect taxes and other revenues. I refer especially to the value-added tax, the use of which is now virtually universal. Like most Governments, mine has had to trim several vital services. Everywhere, Governments are obliged to experiment with the privatization of many former State functions and have liquidated large chunks of State property. Even as these changes occur within many economies and Governmental structures, other actors have stepped onto the national and international stage. These actors, of course, include civil society and the non-governmental organizations, which now participate in almost every aspect of life. At the same time, we are trying to understand and cope with the novel phenomenon of globalization. Globalization has several positive aspects, especially liberalization, which it presupposes. However, globalization also seems to presuppose the universalization of mammoth private-sector enterprises and associations. This universalization is accompanied by revision or, in places, the reversal of aspects of such legal and economic doctrines as those that disapproved of excessive industrial combinations and monopolies. Nevertheless, globalization is a logical accompaniment to the reduction of the scope of sovereignty. But just as a loss of national autonomy is not an unalloyed blessing, this newfangled gigantism is too massive to be swallowed whole. For one thing, globalization as we are witnessing it today is an unprecedented phenomenon, even for the former empires. Whatever its advocates may say, it sometimes seems to contradict our very humanity, since the micro-dimension should never be neglected in the face of the macro-dimension. Both dimensions are essentially complementary. Globalization, furthermore, sometimes denies the tenets of, and the recent directions in, individual and collective human rights. This is because, 22 when it is taken to its logical extreme, as it is in several places, it seems to lead to an international euthanasia. It contributes to a “dinner-table scraps” mentality, or a “crabs- in-the-basket” attitude, whereby the disadvantaged might starve to death or destroy others in order to survive, while those who are more advantaged are enabled to gorge even more. Furthermore, certain forms of assertive globalization also fly in the face of diversity. They are anathema to cultural, social and economic pluralism, whose validity is uncontrovertible in socio-biological terms. As globalization is increasingly manifested in the electronic and communications media, these problems loom very large as, throughout the world, we see our youth taking on the mind-sets and the habiliments of corrupt, alien trend-setters who are mainly interested in purveying unnecessary products and creating false desires. As well we know, the consequences are often mindless violence and sexual and other exploitation of women, children and the weak. Surely this Organization must seek to ensure that these consequences are eradicated. Globalization and the decline of State sovereignty evidence the dramatic changes sweeping the globe, a subject on which many of us often comment from this rostrum. Change is indeed the order of the day, and change, in these specific respects, is actually part and parcel of this Organization and its Charter. After all, despite the fact that some would spin theories to the contrary, the very conception of the United Nations Charter was an enthronement of the doctrine of reduced sovereignty. Only by reducing sovereignty could the excesses that were evident before and during the Second World War be curtailed. Clearly, the very conception of the United Nations presupposes a type of essential globalization. It is therefore surprising how, in some quarters, globalization by private economic actors pursuing or motivated by the dictates of acquisitiveness, cupidity or what is referred to as “efficiency” can be applauded, while similar but much more modest behaviour by groups of sovereigns is now decried. We urge that one crucial key to meaningful reform of the United Nations must surely be enthronement of this Organization’s globalism. We must, indeed, enhance efficiency by rationalizing the managerial structure of the United Nations and the ways in which we select its executives, as was intelligently suggested in the latest edition of the important study by Urquhart and Childers, entitled A World In Need of Leadership. We must act globally by harnessing in common the shared resources of the planet. We repeat our call from previous general debates that this Organization, in keeping with its global function, must be given autonomous revenue authority in certain areas not presently in the domain of nation States. We must acknowledge the utility of the concept of a modest, truly representative and revocable trusteeship over certain ocean and aerial spaces. We may also wish to acknowledge the fact that the nuclear Powers are merely revocable trustees over nuclear weapons, even as we move towards ending all forms of nuclear testing and comply with the recent Advisory Opinion of the International Court of Justice requiring the prompt negotiation, in good faith, of nuclear disarmament. At the same time, we must eradicate everywhere the bitter arsenals of mines and other injurious weapons and noxious substances, and ensure that substances such as nuclear waste do not pass through our territorial or other waters. Responsible globalism will reap for the world the fruits of the promises made in connection with this Organization’s wartime antecedents: that economic, social and all other forms of development are the absolute heritage of under-possessed and dispossessed individuals, peoples and nations. We are under a strict obligation to keep this Organization’s Agenda for Development on the front burner. Belize has proposed that we should establish an annual special session of this Assembly immediately prior to the general debate, at which we would discuss development policy and regenerate the political will necessary continually to revise the complex Agenda for Development and the commitments made in this Assembly, as well as at the high-level global conferences of this last decade of the twentieth century. At that annual session, we could also effectively discuss certain specific portions of the Second Committee items currently discussed during the regular session. Enlightened globalism will compel us, with alacrity and dignity, to make good the humanitarian obligations of this “one world” to the least-developed countries, to Africa, to small developing islands and low-lying developing coastal areas like Belize, to land-locked countries and to other disadvantaged places. We should be happy to do so without repeating any of the recent tired, uncharitable and inaccurate nostrums about the death of the obligation to accord economic preferences to poor countries, even as we clamour that human rights and 23 humanitarianism have now been elevated to a place of honour in the international pantheon. Even as we extol the virtues of United Nations globalism, we can discern another antidote or counterpart to the gigantism of private-sector globalization. This is the phenomenon of regionalism. Regionalism is the concept that drives many current proposals — including those of Belize — for reform of the United Nations Security Council and is a suggested basis for the selection of additional so-called permanent members — privileged, although not serving indefinitely. Incidentally, such a selection could be done entirely within the region or, as is done in many cases at present, by the Assembly. Regionalism is the essence of Belize’s proposals for shared seats on the Security Council, whereby adjacent or proximate States can pool their resources to serve the international community in that rather expensive enterprise. We gratefully acknowledge the fact that Belize’s proposals have attracted some attention. Even as portions of Central Africa appear to teeter on the brink, regionalism has been relatively effective and remains the main hope for preserving peace and security in several parts of this troubled world. It acknowledges the reality that the Organization is not structured to carry out peacemaking and peacekeeping undertakings on a sustained basis. My delegation also believes that regionalism can become a critical element in the quest successfully to confront the menace of narcotics without leading to unwitting hegemonism. We now see an abundance of formal arrangements for subregional integration. These are occurring throughout the five regions of the United Nations. Informal arrangements also abound. These lead us to urge nations in all parts of the world, as well as the global body politic, to explore functional cooperation on a regional and subregional basis, as we now try to do within the Association of Caribbean States and as we have done for centuries in several sub-areas of the Caribbean. We are now witnessing much fruitful regional liberalization and the integration of labour markets, competition policy, labour standards, monetary systems, investments, technical cooperation and trade. We are happy to witness such functional regionalism in Africa, Asia, Europe and other parts of Latin America. We are also witnessing a reordering of the globe as new regions are identified and new relationships developed between regions. Thus, instead of imagining that the Pacific islands are worlds apart from the Caribbean and Central America, as we did when we looked eastward at them, we now see them as neighbouring fellow citizens of the tropics as we look westward at them over our fragile isthmus of Central America. From this geopolitical vantage point as well, we see East Asia as a partner to the Caribbean and Central America. This helps us appreciate that the contemporary approach to statehood fully justifies the aspirations of a democratic Asian country that is one of the most substantial players in the global economy for a greater measure of political participation in the system of international organizations. That country is Taiwan. In the view of my delegation, such participation would be quite consistent with prevailing notions of sovereignty. At the same time, it is assumed that the territorial integrity of the People’s Republic of China would be completely unimpaired. We believe that the statehood and dignity of the latter ancient, honourable and global Power should and would be safeguarded in any situation we have posited. Without meaning to interfere, we would hope that, in this connection, as has been stated in other contexts in these remarks, noblesse oblige. Turning to another region, we must reiterate our concern about the recent retardation of the peace process between Israel and its neighbours. Again, we call for improvement of conditions in southern Lebanon and elsewhere and for the genuine autonomy that is the birthright of the Palestinians. Finally, we wish to suggest that regionalism, including functional cooperation, will contribute significantly to the fulfilment of the millennial dreams of the architects of this great global Organization.  ﻿Once again the United Nations General Assembly is meeting to take stock of the global situation and of the role that the Organization plays in that context. I am confident that the experience, talent and diplomatic skills of our President, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, will play a decisive role in this complex undertaking. I wish him every success in his sensitive work. I wish also to express my delegation’s gratitude for the excellent job done by Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Portugal, in the course of 17 the last General Assembly session, which commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of this Organization. My country has been observing very closely the administrative activities of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali in his capacity as Secretary-General, and we feel bound to express our recognition of the poise with which he has guided the United Nations during these difficult times for the Organization and for the whole world. His undeniable qualities of statesmanship have averted crises, and his strength of character has succeeded in upholding the ideals on which this Organization is founded. I wish to convey to him, on my own behalf and on behalf of my Government, my sincere respect and admiration. Honduras reiterates its conviction that international conflicts must be settled by peaceful and diplomatic means. For this reason, we recognize the importance and value of the 1995 Dayton peace agreement, the 1996 Paris agreements and the subsequent international agreements and commitments for which the international community prepared the way. These have led to a cessation of hostilities, the resumption of political talks, international recognition between Belgrade and Zagreb, and the establishment of relations between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. In the Americas, Haiti is an example of the results that can be achieved through concerted action and political will on the part of the international community in establishing, through the United Nations, operations designed to achieve, maintain and consolidate peace. My country wishes to express its satisfaction at having taken part in those operations, as well as in those carried out in Western Sahara. In the same vein, we cannot overlook the problems of the subregion. Honduras has always viewed with concern the problems besetting its sister republics in Central America. For this reason, we acknowledge and support all efforts in this regard, in particular the agreements reached between the Government of Guatemala and the URNG. At the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, my country secured unanimous support in this body to occupy a seat in the Security Council as a non-permanent member. We believe that we have fully lived up to the trust vested in us, since we have worked in the Council in strict adherence to the principles and norms of international law enshrined in the United Nations Charter and in keeping with the foreign policy pursued by the President of the Republic, Mr. Carlos Roberto Reina. Throughout our first term of presidency of the Council, in July last year, we succeeded in maintaining the necessary equanimity and balance to steer the work and the debates on the various issues brought before the presidency of the Council. These included humanitarian operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Rwanda and Burundi, as well as peace operations in Haiti, Angola and Liberia. Tomorrow we will assume the presidency of the Security Council for the second time, and we shall work in the same spirit of cooperation and with genuine resolve to help bring about solutions to problems that arise in the area of international peace and security. Central America has now returned to the world scene with a new, integrational approach that promotes joint action and allows it to speed up its development process. Our approach, grounded in history, tradition, solidarity and, above all, our awareness of a shared destiny, has made it possible for us to pool our efforts in seeking to achieve a higher level of economic development in all areas. In the framework of the integration process in our subregion, since 1986 we have held a series of presidential summits, the first six of which were highly political in nature, fulfilling the purpose of securing peace and democratization in the region. The following ones, focusing on economic topics, led to the formation of the Central American Integration System (SICA) and defined our current agenda: alliance for sustainable development. I would like to take this opportunity to thank this Assembly for the support it gave our System last year by granting it the status of observer, which will make it possible to achieve greater cooperation between the United Nations System and the Central American Integration System. As we stand on the threshold of a new millennium, my Government is strongly committed to the responsibilities imposed by the world around us. In this respect, Honduras is in favour of greater democratization of the principal organs of the United Nations. We take the view that an increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent Members of the Security Council should be carried out in accordance with the principles of sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical 18 distribution, and that it should reflect the expansion in the membership of the United Nations in recent decades so as to transform the Security Council into a more democratic and representative organ, that would thus be a more credible and effective instrument in fulfilling its primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security without affecting its efficiency or the speed of its decision-making processes. Genuine democratization and real representativity in the Security Council should be the principal basis for the expansion of twenty-first-century world government. We would all like to see a more competent, responsive and responsible United Nations. We should all like it to be better administered and more consolidated and to yield tangible results. To this end, it is essential to undertake meaningful reform in order to enhance its efficiency and to ensure that the United Nations can have a secure financial footing, robust administration and structural capacity, and a clear sense of purpose in tackling its tasks. The General Assembly should play the role now played by costly world conferences, and it should be the forum for sustained thematic debates on important and topical issues held at regular intervals. At the same time, the traditional agenda of the Assembly should be cut back radically. Recurring items should be considered less frequently. We should impose a time limit on our statements, and we need to reform the structure of the committees and auxiliary bodies so as to avoid overlapping and duplication. My country, Honduras, is continuing to work vigorously to strengthen, among other things, its democratic system of government, to bolster judicial power, to organize the national police under civilian rule, to modernize the State, in addition to striving to create a new frame of reference to promote development on the basis of full participation by all sectors of society. Honduras, like all other developing countries, is deeply committed to processes designed to combat poverty and underdevelopment and to mobilize the potential of its peoples and resources in order to attain speedy, fair and sustained growth, working jointly to enhance the effect of national efforts through solidarity, cooperation and mutual confidence. However, there are still many economic and financial obligations that need to be met in the short- and medium- term. International cooperation is steadily declining, and poverty indicators are becoming worse. We wish to see a world where countries, mindful of their diversity, act together to attain common goals, a world in which peace, security and dignity will be the common heritage of all peoples, a world in which the advances of science will serve to benefit humankind and, in short, a world in which existing resources are used rationally in order to meet everyone’s needs. This is our understanding of what, in essence, North-South cooperation should mean. As the United Nations enters its second half-century, we have an opportunity to work towards the objective of its Charter — world cooperation in deterring and halting aggression — and to foster peaceful, productive and sustainable human progress. In this respect, “An Agenda for Development” offers a unique opportunity to make the issue of economic and social development a central priority of the multilateral system. Promotion of sustained economic growth and eradication of poverty in the developing countries, as well as the legitimate leadership that the United Nations should show in this field, must also be key objectives of the Agenda. My country hopes that the negotiations on the Agenda for Development being held by the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group of the General Assembly on An Agenda for Development will conclude promptly and successfully in the course of the fifty-first session of the Assembly. The completion of this work will be a point of departure because it will give rise to firm commitments and mark the beginning of the task of putting the actions agreed upon into practice. Honduras, as a peace-loving country, reaffirms its total support for the principles and objectives seeking the complete elimination of nuclear weapons and to establish a universal, verifiable, multilateral and effective machinery that will help to promote nuclear disarmament and to prevent proliferation of such weapons in all its aspects. Consistent with these principles, I am pleased to announce that Honduras has signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty at this session of the General Assembly, and I would venture to appeal to all States Members of the United Nations to sign it as soon as possible. We would also urge all States possessing nuclear weapons to take resolute steps to reduce them with a view to their elimination. The existence of landmines and other undetonated explosive devices in various regions of the world is a 19 tremendous humanitarian problem and a grave threat to the security, health and survival of the local population where these deadly devices have been scattered. These devices prevent the return of refugees and displaced persons to their homes in the States affected by this ongoing menace and impede humanitarian operations and programmes, national reconstruction and economic development activities and peacekeeping operations. For this reason, we urge Member States, particularly those that have the capacity to do so, to lend their assistance to the affected countries, including those of the Central American region, with a view to establishing and refining national mine-clearance mechanisms. We also appeal to the international community finally to agree on the total prohibition of the production, exportation, sale and use of anti-personnel mines. My delegation wishes once again to place on record its interest in seeing the Republic of China in Taiwan admitted as a Member of the United Nations. At this moment in time, when democratic systems of government and the rule of law are gaining ground in most of the nations that make up this Organization, it seems contradictory to continue excluding the Republic of China in Taiwan from participation. This is a country which struggled determinedly for democracy and succeeded in establishing it this year with the election of a Government by the direct vote of the majority of its people. This is a nation that respects human rights, possesses one of the strongest economies on earth and has been constantly struggling to eradicate poverty, and whose population of 21 million people enjoys an enviable cultural level. In short, the Republic of China in Taiwan fully meets the requirements established in the Charter for membership of the United Nations. For the developing countries, its participation in the various international forums would be extremely beneficial, since we would be able to draw on its valuable experience in cooperation programmes, as demonstrated when it occupied a seat in this General Assembly from the day it signed the Charter until 1971. In this respect, my Government supports the resolution adopted on 19 July 1996 by the European Parliament entitled the “Role of Taiwan in International Organizations”, which explicitly states its support for the idea that the Republic of China in Taiwan should have a greater level of recognition and representation in international agencies. It also urges the United Nations to establish a working group to study the possibility of its participation in the activities of the United Nations and its international agencies. The problem of drug production is not as severe in the Central American region as it is elsewhere, although our countries are not unaffected by drug use. For this reason, on 21 June, the Ministers of the Interior of our region agreed to develop a plan of cooperation to fight this evil. In this regard, we support the initiative of convening a special session of the United Nations General Assembly in 1998 in order to strengthen the international strategy to combat narcotic drugs. With a view to beginning to address the problem of the efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations system, 1996 could be a year of meditation and reflection. Calls have been made for a redefinition of the purposes of the Organization and, in particular, of the tasks of the Security Council. In order to achieve this important task, we must work on the basis of a shared and balanced vision of the future of the Organization. The construction of a culture of international peace, security and prosperity should be the ultimate goal in this redefinition of tasks. This is something that the United Nations must accomplish in response to the needs of our peoples. As we approach the end of the century and the millennium, the globality of economies and the grouping of countries into systems of integration are becoming irreversible facts. One consequence of this will be the resurgence of mega-States in which smaller States will remain submerged. We are concerned for the future of weaker and less developed nations which, like ours, require great external and internal efforts to retain the identity that distinguishes them from the rest of the world. The right of peoples to decide their own destiny on the basis of sovereignty is enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. This right must be observed in the new world order if we wish to preserve, as is our duty, peace and cultural plurality among nations.  ﻿I should like, first of all, to extend my warmest compliments to His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, Permanent Representative of Malaysia to the United Nations, on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly last week. I also pay tribute to the efforts of His Excellency Mr. Diego Freitas do Amaral, who demonstrated great skill in presiding over the historic fiftieth-anniversary session. Last year commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. This year marks the fortieth anniversary of Japan’s admission to the United Nations. Over the past four decades, Japan has consistently made its commitment to the United Nations one of the main pillars of its foreign policy and has steadfastly supported the United Nations. At the same time, Japan has benefited immensely from the international system, including the United Nations. I should like to take this opportunity to express my sincere gratitude for the support Japan has received from the international community in building the stability and prosperity it enjoys today. In addition, as the role of the United Nations grows in importance in the new post-cold- war environment, I hereby affirm that Japan is resolved to play a more active role by further strengthening the cooperation it extends to the Organization for the sake of world peace and prosperity. My ultimate foreign policy goal is the creation of a better world for future generations, a world free of poverty and conflict. I intend to achieve this goal through change and creation, which is the mission of my Cabinet. Children who can talk vividly about their dreams of the future are the world’s treasure. Is it not our grave responsibility, as leaders of the international community, to build an environment in which the children of the next generation can flourish? Efforts towards the creation of a better world for future generations must be based on the following three pillars: first, securing world peace and stability; secondly, promoting development so as to bring growth and stability to developing countries; and thirdly, ensuring the well-being of each and every citizen throughout global society. These three pillars are interrelated, and we will be unable to achieve a world free of poverty and conflict if any one of the three is missing, or if only one of them is in place. Since taking office, I have pursued foreign policies based on the strong belief that Japan should be a nation that works for world peace and stability on its own initiative. In accordance with this position, Japan intends to play a leading role in the building of each of these three pillars, as I shall subsequently explain. These are precisely the areas which the United Nations of the twenty-first century will be expected to address. The first pillar is securing world peace and stability. This is surely of the utmost importance, because unless this is achieved, future generations will be left with nothing but confusion and destruction. At this time of ever greater interdependence, world peace is indivisible. Instability in one region can readily lead to the instability of other regions and, in turn, to the instability of the world as a whole. It is Japan’s intention not simply to secure its own peace and stability but, consonant with the philosophy embodied in the Constitution of Japan, it will strive to secure global peace and stability and make greater efforts, commensurate with its political and economic status, for the prevention and resolution of conflicts in various regions of the world. It goes without saying that, as a nation in Asia, Japan will spare no effort in securing peace and stability in the region. The recent incident of infiltration by a North Korean submarine makes us all the more aware of the importance of easing tensions on the Korean peninsula. Realization of the four-party meeting, which was proposed by the leaders of the United States and the Republic of Korea last April, is very important, and I should like on this occasion to reiterate Japan’s support for that proposal. In an effort to further strengthen the achievements of the Cambodian peace process, which has proved to be a successful example of the international community’s peace-building efforts, and looking ahead to the elections that Cambodia will hold on its own for the first time beginning next year, Japan intends to continue to extend assistance to that country. Japan welcomes the fact that Russia, also located in the Asian region, is continuing its reform process in the light of the results of the recent presidential election. Moreover, by actively participating in political and security dialogue, for example in the context of the ASEAN Regional Forum, Japan is endeavouring to further promote confidence- building in the region. 8 At the same time, Japan is actively engaged in addressing issues in other regions, for example by cooperating with United Nations activities to foster global peace. During the latter part of August I visited five countries in Latin America where I witnessed at first hand the success of the democratization process and steady progress in economic reform. Japan intends to strengthen its assistance for the stable development of this region. In the former Yugoslavia, Japan has contributed both personnel and financing to the local and national elections recently held in Bosnia in view of their importance in the formation of a democratic political system. As a member of the Steering Board of the Peace Implementation Council, Japan will continue to participate actively in the civilian aspects of international efforts towards the implementation of the peace process. On the occasion of Foreign Minister Ikeda’s visit to the Middle East in August, and Chairman Arafat’s visit to Tokyo in mid-September, Japan called for continued negotiations among the parties to the Middle East peace process. Japan is determined to continue to contribute to the creation of an environment conducive to the advancement of the peace process by extending assistance to the parties concerned, including assistance to the Palestinian people, and by participating in multilateral talks. Japan is gravely concerned about the current situation in Iraq. It strongly hopes that Iraq will listen to the opinion of the international community and comply in good faith with the relevant Security Council resolutions so that the situation will be settled as soon as possible. In order to resolve the Afghanistan issue it is important that foreign interference cease and that the success of the peace and reconciliation efforts of the United Nations is ensured. Toward that end, Japan is providing an expert on that region to serve as a political counsellor at the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan. The ongoing regional conflicts in Africa, including the situations in Burundi, Liberia and Angola, are of grave concern. The international community must actively support the conflict-prevention and conflict-resolution efforts of African countries as well as the strengthening of their capabilities in this regard. In addition to extending financial contributions to the Organization of African Unity and the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, Japan is extending assistance to peacekeeping operations, refugee assistance, rehabilitation assistance, and assistance for democratization in the form of personnel and intellectual input. Peacekeeping operations are an effective complement to the collective security function as originally envisaged in the United Nations Charter, and they supplement the conflict-resolution efforts of the parties themselves. It is important that the international community should continue to support peacekeeping operations but also that it should seek their further reform. Experiences in recent years have reaffirmed the effectiveness of traditional peacekeeping operations. Their role in preventing conflicts, as exemplified by the success of the United Nations Preventive Deployment Force (UNPREDEP), is likely to become increasingly important. Japan will continue to participate in the discussions that are now under way among interested Member States on measures to improve the rapid reaction capabilities of the peacekeeping operations. Japan is participating in the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) in the Golan Heights and intends hereafter to cooperate actively and as much as possible in peacekeeping operations. I believe that, as it responds to regional conflicts, the United Nations has the potential to fulfil, in a practical manner, an extremely effective function through preventive diplomacy. I should like to propose that a meeting of eminent persons be convened to explore means of enhancing the Organization’s preventive diplomacy capability. In order to maintain international peace and stability, it is essential to further promote disarmament efforts and to strengthen the regime for the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In particular, Japan would vigorously emphasize the importance for the international community of promoting realistic and steady efforts for nuclear disarmament with the aim of realizing a world free of nuclear weapons. As the only country to have suffered nuclear devastation, Japan has been making precisely this appeal to the international community as a top priority in accordance with its own philosophy. Thus I am deeply gratified by the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty by the General Assembly with the support of many Member States; this indeed marks a historic step towards a world free of nuclear weapons. Having the opportunity just this morning to sign the Treaty gave me great personal satisfaction. In order to realize the early entry into force of the Treaty, Japan would like to call upon those 9 countries which have expressed opposition to the Treaty to accede to it at the earliest possible date from the broader perspective of promoting nuclear disarmament. For its part, Japan will continue to make contributions in the field of verification of nuclear testing, by such means as expanding the technical cooperation on seismic technologies that it extends to concerned developing countries. As a next step towards the elimination of nuclear weapons, I should like to call for the early commencement of negotiations on a cut-off treaty which would prohibit the production of fissile materials for nuclear weapons. Japan takes the problems posed by landmines very seriously. Japan supports international efforts toward a total, worldwide ban on anti-personnel landmines. Furthermore, in order to reinforce international support for measures to deal with anti-personnel landmines, Japan is preparing to host a meeting at the senior official level in Tokyo early next year. The promotion of development to bring about the growth and stability of developing countries is the second pillar required for the creation of a better world for future generations. Development is a prerequisite for peace; at the same time, the maintenance of peace is a precondition for development. As a leading donor, Japan will work to further enhance its official development assistance; at the same time, it is keenly aware of its responsibility to lead the discussion on issues relating to the proper form and provision of such assistance. Based on this recognition, Japan has been calling for a new development strategy. The central ideas in this strategy are an emphasis on the ownership by developing countries of the development process and on the establishment of a new global partnership in which developed and developing countries, released from the North-South confrontational mind-set, cooperate with each other. Moreover, it is important to address development not simply with official development assistance, but also by organically combining various elements including trade, investment, economic policy, debt relief, technology transfer, and the development of social infrastructure. It is also important to extend assistance that is most appropriate to the circumstances of the particular country while paying adequate attention to the efforts made by developing countries in the promotion of democratization and the introduction of market-oriented economies. Furthermore, Japan attaches importance to the setting of development targets and the reinvestment in development activities of savings resulting from reforms, as well as to promoting coordination between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions. We have witnessed the development of various forms of regional cooperation, such as the Southern African Development Community, MERCOSUR, and the South Pacific Forum; such regional cooperation is an important element for development. Emphasizing the significance of South-South cooperation, Japan is utilizing the Japanese Human Resources Development Fund in the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in order to support South-South cooperation. In the context of developing countries, Japan attaches particular importance to the development of Africa, where poverty and conflict are particularly acute. Japan will actively promote its initiatives on assistance to African countries, which Foreign Minister Ikeda presented during the general debate of the Ninth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, convened in South Africa this past spring. In order to give new momentum to African development, Japan is hoping to convene the second meeting of the Tokyo International Conference on African Development in 1998, which would follow a preparatory meeting that will take place, also in Tokyo, in 1997. The third pillar to which I would like to refer is the guarantee of the well-being of every citizen of the global community. It is important to embrace the global community as a whole, and to give heed to the importance of each and every one of its members. Indeed, the peace of mind of individuals contributes to the peace and stability of the world. Japan intends to address more actively various social problems such as the environment, population, AIDS, drugs, terrorism, organized crime, refugees and the status of women, as well as problems relating to food and energy, which may become more acute in the years to come. Concerned about environmental issues, Japan will host the third conference of the parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Kyoto in December next year. Japan will make every effort toward the adoption at that conference of an effective and practical document prescribing an international framework to prevent global warming after the year 2000. I should like to call for the valuable cooperation of every Member State and international organization concerned for the success of that conference. 10 Recognizing that it is important that each and every human being be cared for, throughout more than 30 years of political activity, I have focused my attention on the protection of the most vulnerable among us and to the elimination of poverty. The Initiative for a Caring World which I proposed on the occasion of the Lyons summit of the Group of Seven is an extension of this endeavour. Under this initiative, Japan intends, first of all, to share with developing countries its experiences in the field of social security, including health care, hygiene and social welfare services so that they can develop more effective services in these areas, and secondly, to exchange experiences and knowledge with other developed countries with respect to issues that they commonly confront. As I stated at the outset, I should like to urge world leaders to join hands and strengthen their efforts particularly on behalf of the well-being of children. Ever since the Japan Committee for the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) was established in 1955, my mother has been dedicating herself to promoting its activities. This has had a profound influence on me, and I too have been actively engaged in its activities. Japan has been contributing approximately $30 million to UNICEF annually and it intends hereafter to strengthen its cooperation. As part of its initiatives on assistance to Africa which I mentioned earlier, Japan announced that it would provide assistance for the expansion of education and the eradication of polio on that continent. It also intends to enhance its assistance for the protection of the health of very young children in developing countries. The protection and promotion of human rights is the foundation of world peace and prosperity. Japan is determined to support the democratic development of developing countries and at the same time hopes that the United Nations will further enhance its activities in the field of human rights. As we approach the twenty-first century, it is essential that the United Nations itself play a role that responds adequately to the growing expectations of the international community based on the three pillars to which I have been referring. Towards that end, reforms that strengthen the functions of the Organization are necessary. There is a consensus among the United Nations membership regarding the importance of the new role envisaged for the Organization as well as the urgent need for comprehensive United Nations reform. However, when it comes to concrete measures for reform, a convergence of views among Member States is yet to emerge. With the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we witnessed an increase in the momentum for reform. It should be the aim of this fifty-first session of the General Assembly to maintain this momentum so that a general agreement on the major elements of reform can be reached before the session ends. The entire United Nations membership should then make every effort to reach an agreement on concrete measures to realize United Nations reform in the near future. If the United Nations simply engages in repetitious debate and proves incapable of reforming itself to adapt to the changing times, its very credibility could be severely undermined. It is thus incumbent upon the membership as a whole to be tenacious in its efforts to achieve reform. Security Council reform, and reforms in administrative and financial areas and in economic and social areas comprise the threefold centrepiece of United Nations reform. I should like to point out the importance, above all, of carrying out these reforms as a whole in a balanced manner. For example, even though there may be a financial crisis, if we were to carry out reforms in that area alone, separately from reforms in the other two areas, it would not correspond to the original basic concept of United Nations reform, which was to seek to strengthen the functions of the Organization as a whole. Permit me to present the views of Japan regarding reforms in these three areas. I should like first of all to discuss the reform of the Security Council. Inasmuch as the Security Council bears the primary responsibility for carrying out the major purpose of the United Nations, namely, the achievement and maintenance of world peace and stability, its importance is obvious. As it has indicated on previous occasions, Japan, with the endorsement of many other countries, is prepared to discharge its responsibilities as a permanent member of the Security Council in accordance with its basic philosophy of the non-resort to the use of force prohibited by its Constitution. Until the reform of the Security Council is realized, Japan is determined to contribute to the work of the Security Council for the sake of international peace and security, and has presented its candidature for non- permanent membership on the Council in this session of the General Assembly. Responding to the strong support and confidence that have already been expressed with respect to its candidature, Japan will continue to make every effort so that it can play an active role on the Security Council. As I stated earlier, Japan attaches great importance to development. More than two thirds of United Nations Member States are developing countries. If the United Nations is to aim at achieving a world free of poverty and conflicts, it is crucial that discussions on development be further promoted within the Organization. In this, the functions and role of the Economic and Social Council should be strengthened and the integration of the various development issues with which the United Nations is engaged should be ensured. Japan is the second largest financial contributor to the United Nations; its assessment for the regular budget has increased to 15.65 per cent for next year, and is likely to increase further. Japan will not shirk the tremendous responsibility it bears in financially supporting the United Nations. However, with respect to the scale of assessment, I wish to reiterate that Japan attaches importance not only to the concept of capacity to pay but also to the responsibility to pay. Japan also welcomes the endeavours of the Secretariat towards administrative streamlining and rationalizing. Throughout the four decades since it joined the United Nations Japan has faithfully upheld the purposes and principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. It has consistently attached importance to the United Nations, and it is proud to be among the countries that have made the greatest contributions to its overall activities. Disarmament, initiatives in the area of nuclear non-proliferation, an appeal for a new strategy on development issues, an active addressing of global issues, as well as considerable financial contributions to the United Nations — these are the issues to which Japan has attached profound importance in recent years. I wish to conclude my statement in this general debate by reemphasizing Japan’s readiness to participate in the Security Council, which is at the centre of United Nations activity, as well as to engage more actively and more constructively in the aforementioned areas of endeavour in order to discharge its responsibility with regard to world peace and prosperity.  ﻿One year ago, representatives of Member States gathered in this hallowed Hall and sang songs of praise in honour of the fiftieth anniversary of this venerable Organization. One year ago, we faced the challenges of a changing international system and the dawn of the new millennium with courage and hope and in the belief that its noble ideals would guide the actions of States, great and small, in their relations with their fellow Members. But now that the cheering and shouting have died and the vivid memories of the fiftieth anniversary celebrations have started to wane, small countries like ours, Saint Lucia, are forced to face the realities of survival — realities far harsher than what the bliss of that anniversary promised. It will be difficult to forget the lofty principles expounded during the anniversary or the excitement of celebrating the historic liquidation of apartheid in South Africa and the restoration of democracy in Haiti. But the speeches of this Assembly had hardly faded, the lights of this Hall hardly dimmed, when my country Saint Lucia and its sister islands of the Caribbean began to feel the full blast of international hostility towards the arrangements for the marketing of our main export commodity, the banana, in the European Union, arrangements which are enshrined in the treaty establishing the Fourth Lomé Convention between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific States. The reality of size and vulnerability always creates an awareness, a perception and a kind of resilience in small States that make them philosophical about adversity. Consequently, we will continue to support the high ideals of this institution, but today we must focus on the hard options presented to us by the myopia of some large trading nations. At the historic fiftieth session of this Assembly, Saint Lucia took the opportunity to spell out to the nations of the world the very serious consequences which would befall our small Caribbean economies if certain countries pursued their intention to challenge the European banana regime by invoking Section 301 action at the World Trade Organization (WTO). The United States of America itself is now pursuing this action in response to an application by certain American multinational companies involved in the trade, and other large banana-producing countries have followed their lead. The battle is now fully engaged within the World Trade Organization, but the conditions of war are anything but equal and the playing field is anything but even. For example, at the behest of the complainants, the small countries of the Caribbean have been denied full participation in the hearings of the WTO panel, despite the fact that we are the ones who will be most affected by the WTO ruling, whatever that may be. The diplomatic war being waged against the marketing arrangements of our main export commodity in the name of free trade emphasizes to small nations the monumental insensitivity of some of those participating in the process of globalization and trade liberalization now sweeping the international community. In a process that ignores the special circumstances of the small and the vulnerable, nations like Saint Lucia and regions like the Caribbean can quickly become marginalized. 6 Let it be understood that we are not against the process of change in world trade, the globalization of the world economy or the economic integration of continents, a process currently under way. We do not wish to be Luddites in our view of the evolving international system and thus we welcome these directions. But, on behalf of the peoples whom we represent, on behalf of the peoples of all small States, we have the right to point out the dangers these trends pose for small, developing economies if compensating mechanisms are not put in place. We need to tell the world that these trends, these changes in international economic affairs, have not lessened the vulnerability of small developing States, but have in some respects accentuated them. We need to remind this body that, as the international community seeks to fashion a new global economic system, it is imperative that it not lose sight of the special needs of small States, particularly small island developing countries. The untrammelled pursuit of free trade for the sake of free trade cannot be the guiding philosophy of our Member States. Unbridled free trade which relegates some Member States, and in particular those with small open economies, to the position of suffering spectators cannot be acceptable. It is even less acceptable when we realize that some of the very nations that are championing the case of unrestricted trade liberalization do not themselves scrupulously observe that philosophy. Some of them grant huge subsidies to their farmers in order to allow them to continue in production, yet they complain that our small farmers are not efficient producers. Consequently, it is incumbent on the international community to make provisions for the special needs of small States in this rapidly changing international system. In the creation of free-trade areas that span continents and integrate hemispheres, there must be special provisions for the very small economies of our countries, particularly in regions where there are small island developing States. In that regard, we welcome the fact that, in the discussions on the proposed free-trade area of the Americas, a working group on smaller economies has been established to facilitate the participation of the small economies in that process. For despite the changing features of the international system, the forces that threaten the existence of these States have not altered. Small island States are still very vulnerable, for example, to natural disasters. Some of the economies of our fellow Member States from the Caribbean have yet to recover from the effects of the ravages of last year’s hurricanes. And in the island of Montserrat, we have a classic example of the magnitude of the damage which a natural disaster — in this case persistent volcanic activity — can wreak on small island developing economies. The plight of that small Territory is an extreme but tragically powerful symbol of why the special needs of small island developing States cannot be ignored as the international community seeks to define new rules and economic relationships for the next millennium. The international community and international economic institutions must therefore bear in mind that, while they have categorized some of us as middle-income developing countries and therefore as no longer requiring concessionary aid flows, the economic indices utilized to arrive at these classifications cannot mask the continuing reality of the vulnerability of these countries. We will, however, continue within the severe limitations of size and resources to diversify and restructure our economies, to increase efficiency and productivity and to adapt to the new realities. We will rely on the support of States Members of this Organization in this regard. There are other States in the Caribbean whose particular situation also deserves the special attention of this body. Saint Lucia once again urges the international community to increase its technical, economic and financial assistance to Haiti to foster development and stability in that sister country of ours. The end of the United Nations Mission should not diminish international development support for Haiti. This is even more urgently needed now to maintain and strengthen the gains achieved in the restoration of what is still a fledgling democracy and to enhance its fragile stability. Again, Saint Lucia joins its Caribbean colleagues in calling for an end to the economic blockade of Cuba. Three decades of denial have not achieved democracy. The economic embargo against Cuba is a policy which can hardly be called relevant in this era and it is therefore time to try the more effective alternative of dialogue, discourse and openness. In the wider international community, we are heartened by the new impetus given to the revitalization and development of Africa and encourage Member States to continue to support this initiative. But we are saddened by the persistence of ethnic disturbances in some areas of that continent — ethnic troubles which only serve to impede the very development process which Member 7 States are trying to promote. We therefore urge the United Nations and regional organizations in Africa to develop mechanisms for conciliation with regard to these conflicts. Saint Lucia also wishes to express its deep concern at the recent revival of conflict in the Middle East. Is it not time to end the anguish, to stop the pain? Is it not time to halt the shedding of the blood of the ordinary people of these lands? Is it not time to bring a permanent peace to a land that means so much to so much of mankind? But the path to true peace can only be through dialogue and conciliation and we urge all parties to return to this road, for anything which is not built on that foundation will not stand. While Saint Lucia continues to promote the unification of China, we still hold the view that Taiwan should be given the opportunity to participate in and contribute to the work of the United Nations. Taiwan is a vibrant and growing democracy, capable of meeting its obligations to this institution. As a highly developed economy, Taiwan is also capable of contributing to the growth of other smaller, less developed economies of the world. At a time when the Powers that have traditionally assisted the economic development of our countries have significantly reduced the level and quality of their support, new sources of assistance should not be ignored. We are confident that this body can find a creative mechanism through which Taiwan can be involved in the programmes of the Organization. That involvement in the work of the United Nations should in no way preclude unification. We hope that this fifty-first session will not conclude without significant progress in correcting the inequitable composition of the Security Council. Saint Lucia will continue to work within our regional and other groups to achieve the goal of strengthening the relationship between the General Assembly and the Security Council, institutionalizing the process of briefing and consultation and developing greater transparency and predictability. As a small nation caught up in the dynamics of globalization and trade liberalization, Saint Lucia looks eagerly and hopefully to the principles and ideals of the United Nations to offer some comfort, some protection and some measure of security in our uncertain entry into the new century. All the indications that herald the approach of this new age seem to tell us that small nations should find their path to development through the process of integration. We as a nation have a solid track record in attempting to forge deep and meaningful links between all States members of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States and the Caribbean Community. In both organizations, we continue to build viable mechanisms and institutions which will achieve a meaningful consolidation of the various units of the Caribbean Community. We have progressed even further and participated in the launching of a brave initiative, the Association of Caribbean States. This Association ignores the barriers of race, language and culture and seeks to unify all countries which border and are part of the Caribbean Sea. We urge this Organization, through its various agencies, to continue to provide support for the regional integration efforts of developing countries. On many occasions in the past, it has been the work of some of the United Nations agencies which has helped sustain some of these regional economic integration schemes and given them the impetus to move forward. For its part, Saint Lucia will continue to toil in the cause of the closer union of the peoples and States of the Caribbean because this is the only logic for our survival. This is the path to the enhancement of the quality of life of our peoples. The plight which our country faces as a result of the manipulation of the European banana market regime and of the unconscionable pressures exerted by the activities of some States on that market, is desperate. We wish to remind the Assembly that we are relying on the principles and ideals of this body to stand firmly in the corner of the small and vulnerable and to frustrate the designs of some multinational corporations which threaten our livelihood. We reiterate our call to the United Nations to develop a framework of international review and regulations regarding the activities and policies of transnational corporations, which are assuming leviathan proportions in world trade. I commend you, Sir, on your elevation to the presidency of the General Assembly at fifty-first session and pledge Saint Lucia’s support for the successful execution of your enormous responsibilities. My country also pledges with customary diligence to assist the United Nations in implementing the goals of the Charter and fostering the spirit of freedom and independence which the fiftieth anniversary year of the Organization emphasized. Our small size will not be a deterrent in our pursuit of democracy and peace. 8  ﻿I join my colleague, Minister Dick Spring of Ireland, who spoke on behalf of the European Union, in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. As a representative with a long and distinguished career in United Nations affairs, you are especially qualified to guide our work in the coming year. As the present century draws to a close, we need to ask ourselves what shape the United Nations is in. Is it ready to face the world that lies ahead? Is it ready to meet the needs of generations that are still to be born? The realities confronting us today may still be the realities of tomorrow, and they are formidable. We are witnessing increasing poverty, a growing rift between rich and poor, migration, population pressure, dwindling food stocks, hazards to public health and the environment, drugs, terrorism, internal conflicts and wholesale violations of human rights: a daunting litany. In the face of these realities, to argue in favour of reform of this Organization would be stating the obvious. Of course we need reform. Clearly, the United Nations, over the years, has turned into an institutional jungle where outsiders do not venture, an organization which for that reason alone has lost much of its credibility and which is badly in need of revitalization. We have to reform. There is no alternative. We need reforms to get back what we have lost; that is, not power, but authority. Power is wielded on many different levels, and by some States more than by others. There is not very much the United Nations can do to influence Member States to make use of their power, and the power of the United Nations itself is rather limited. But what the United Nations was given a lot of 51 years ago, was authority: moral authority as well as legal authority, the kind of authority that comes with speaking on behalf of the world community, with voicing the public conscience and transcending vested interests. Indeed, if this Organization is to approach the future from a position of strength and of confidence, and if we expect the nations of the world to rally behind the flag of the United Nations, its authority needs to be intact. In fact, it needs to be growing. Well, is it growing? Here a sobering note is due. At this critical juncture in its history, the United Nations is seeing its authority, the one commodity it can never have too much of, compromised and weakened; this is also the one commodity it cannot afford to have too little of. I would wish to highlight some of the manifestations of how the authority of the United Nations is on the wane and offer some prospects for shoring it up again. First, multilateralism, as such, is under pressure. Many States no longer regard multilateral cooperation as a separate goal of their foreign policy, but instead as one of many policy instruments which they can choose to apply or not to apply in accordance with their national interests. Alterative sources of international leadership have sprung up, and ad hoc coalitions are formed as the need arises. The United Nations is regarded more and more as a vehicle for safeguarding a nation’s particular interests, even in the short term, rather than as the preferred avenue for solving pressing world-wide problems. This shopping-mall attitude towards the United Nations is in stark contrast with the lofty principles the founding fathers signed their names to. 16 Gradual loss of authority is also caused by disappointment and frustration. The United Nations was once established as an ideal form of international cooperation. Particularly after the end of the cold war, expectations rose as never before. For decades, the world had been dominated and the United Nations paralysed by two power blocs at loggerheads. The United Nations could now finally begin to play the role originally laid out for it. Unfortunately, this did not happen. Success stories such as the United Nations involvement in Namibia, in El Salvador and Mozambique were overshadowed by disappointment over the outcome of Missions Impossible such as Somalia, Rwanda and Bosnia. That the Member States themselves had decided to send the United Nations on those missions could not stem the erosion of authority that came with them. Frustration has mounted over effectiveness and efficiency, two qualities that have eluded the United Nations for a long time. It would be facile to blame the lack of them on the Secretariat alone. The grinding manner in which the intergovernmental machinery of this Organization works is a major factor as well. Criticism abounds. The track record of the United Nations is in many ways impressive, to be sure, and even more so when we look at the broad spectrum of the entire United Nations system. Its achievements in the fields of international law, human rights, development, the population crisis, health care, the position of women, labour conditions and disarmament are just random examples. In reality, the list is long. Yet somehow United Nations- bashing has become the craze these days and even a tool of campaign rhetoric, or else it serves to distract attention from internal problems. Nevertheless, the United Nations moral authority is sapped by the real and the imagined and by criticism justified or unjustified. Then there is the financial situation. From the early days, payment or non-payment of contributions has been indicative of the United Nations approval rating. The level of arrears we are now facing is, however, without precedent. Sadly, it is in large part a reflection of declining confidence and belief in the Organization’s potential. The present financial turmoil is not primarily the cause of the United Nations predicament, but rather a consequence of it, a symptom. Of course, empty coffers will lead to less output eventually. Less output would undermine authority even further. Less authority in turn leads to fewer payments, which again would exacerbate the financial crisis. And so we may see the United Nations caught in a downward spiral. The current payment habits of some Member States amount to a self-fulfilling prophecy. Worse, they betray the very principles on which the United Nations was founded. The absence of full, prompt and unconditional payments will further erode the United Nations authority, the same authority those very States helped to bestow on the Organization 50 years ago. If there is one policy area in which the United Nations has lost much of its authority and stands to loose even more, it is peace and security. Take Burundi. Today, the humanitarian and political situation there is alarming. We are witnessing a creeping genocide. Terror prevails. In the past few months alone, thousands of innocent men, women and children have lost their lives. An explosion of genocide is still a real threat. We cannot allow the occurrence of another disaster such as that which took place in Rwanda in 1994. In that year, we claimed that we could hardly have seen it coming. In the case of Burundi, there will be no such excuse. The writing is clearly on the wall. If we fail once again and a second genocide does take place, the United Nations will suffer its most dramatic loss of authority ever. What can we do to enhance the effectiveness of the United Nations and hence to help it regain the authority it needs in order to fulfil its mandate? How can we reverse the downward spiral? If the United Nations is to be effective, the various instruments at the disposal of the international community have to be used in an integrated manner. This holds true particularly in the area of peace and security. In this area, political, military, socio-economic, electoral and humanitarian assistance, as well as reconstruction and development, will have to be applied in harmony. Hence, an integrated approach is the only way effectively to prevent and combat conflicts. The United Nations needs to be on the ground when it matters and where it matters. This is the lesson that can be drawn from recent crises in Africa — such as in Rwanda and Somalia — where the international response to tragic violence became ineffective through lack of coherence. Preventive diplomacy, on the one hand, and post- conflict peace-building, on the other, require increased attention. More than ever, the United Nations should focus on the prevention of conflicts and, when conflicts do occur nevertheless, on defusing them at an early stage. When I addressed this Assembly two years ago, I drew attention to the United Nations capability, or rather 17 the lack of it, to respond adequately and in a timely manner to acute situations of conflict. Some progress has been made since then — progress in the form of modest intermediate steps that would in the longer run lead to a United Nations better equipped to maintain peace and security. Today, there is a growing number of countries that take part in the United Nations standby-arrangements system and in the efforts of a group of nations to establish a United Nations high-readiness brigade under this system. The transparency of the Security Council’s decision-making concerning peace-operations has improved. A rapidly deployable headquarters will soon be added to the United Nations peace-keeping capacity. The future of conflict prevention is linked to the United Nations power to combat yet another threat to its authority: impunity. Does the world community actually have sufficient means to bring to justice those guilty of war crimes or crimes against humanity? As the cases of Burundi and Liberia sadly illustrate, the prospect of impunity provides an open invitation to commit crimes without fear of retribution and stands in the way of future reconciliation and reconstruction. The Tribunals on the former Yugoslavia and on Rwanda represent the single most important endeavour of the international community since Nuremberg to adjudicate war crimes and crimes against humanity. We cannot let it fail. Yet the Yugoslavia Tribunal will face a serious problem so long as it cannot gain custody of more of the many people it has indicted. Soon, the present circumstances will erode its authority and, indeed, that of the United Nations as a whole. My country feels that the establishment of ad hoc Tribunals once again underlines the need for the speedy creation of a permanent international criminal court. Once this Court has been established, it will become even more imperative that those accused of such crimes actually be brought to trial. The United Nations should enhance its capacity to ensure the apprehension, extradition and trial of those so accused. If there is one area of the United Nations where moral and legal authority play crucial roles, it is that of human rights. Here, the record of the Organization is impressive, but still more can and should be done and new challenges lie in store. Increased attention for human rights will increase the moral authority of the United Nations. In this regard, its authority should rest firmly on the Universal Declaration, adopted by this Organization in 1948 “as a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations” (resolution 217 A (III), eighth preambular para.) — in other words, a universal framework. Forty-five years later, in Vienna, the universality of human rights was once again expounded by the United Nations membership as we know it today. Yet, universality of human rights is under pressure. Ever since Vienna, the discussion of what is called cultural particularities seems to have chipped away at it. Some Governments claim that their nation’s human-rights performance cannot be held up to the same standards as other nations’ due to differences in their historical, cultural and religious backgrounds. Let us make no mistake. There are differences in the way people look at human rights in the various regions of the world and the ongoing dialogue in the United Nations would be ill-served if we chose to deny that there were any differences at all. True, religious and ethical values, cultural backgrounds and philosophical convictions should be borne in mind at all times and, by themselves, are even protected by the Universal Declaration. But their link to human rights as such and to the concept of universality is a very particular one. The international community has expressed it nowhere more accurately than in the Platform for Action adopted in Beijing one year ago. As we agreed in Beijing, rather than detracting from the ambit of universality, cultural differences should contribute to the full enjoyment of human rights. The States Members of this Organization agreed in Vienna that, regardless of their political, economic and cultural systems, it is their duty to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms. Increased emphasis calls for more financial resources. A larger part of the United Nations budget should be devoted to human rights. This, in turn, will enhance the moral authority of the Organization in the eyes of the multitudes who are still deprived of their human rights today. Letting the programme wither away will produce the opposite effect. The General Assembly, being the only plenary organ of the United Nations, is the most conspicuous. Credibility and authority are very much tied to the Assembly’s performance. Sadly, this body sees many of 18 its resolutions ignored. We should vigorously seek to infuse new vitality into the Assembly’s proceedings and in the relevance of its achievements. Two weeks ago, the Assembly effectively lived up to its responsibility by adopting the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty by an overwhelming majority. The adoption of the Treaty by this world body lends authority to the new norm outlawing nuclear testing. My country feels privileged that it was called upon to preside over the negotiations. Adoption of the Treaty contributes to the ultimate elimination of all nuclear weapons, a goal to which my country remains fully committed. We aim for a propitious entry into force. But even in the absence of entry into force, the authority of the United Nations will make it more difficult for any State to act against the Treaty. Increased attention should be given to those activities of the United Nations which are not of a strictly political nature or concerned with security, namely, the socio- economic aspects and the strengthening of those parts of the United Nations system dealing with such matters as poverty, population, food security, urbanization, equality of women and the environment. These areas are crucial for the future of the world and for the quality of life on this planet. These are also areas where the Organization is especially qualified to identify and debate the problems and where it has set up an impressive array of operational activities. A series of world conferences in recent years has helped to upgrade the authority of the United Nations system. They have set an agenda for the United Nations and the Member States to follow during the coming decades. The World Food Summit in November should do the same. The Summit faces the awesome problem of a world that may have to feed 10 billion people by the time the United Nations is 100 years old. There is, of course, a risk that expectations have been raised too high once more and that disappointment will lead once more to loss of authority. The United Nations and its Member States have to make sure this does not happen. The United Nations will play a major role in the fields of advocacy, coordination and monitoring. Although the United Nations itself contributes to implementation through its field operations, the Member States bear the primary responsibility for full implementation at the national level. Together, they can succeed in ensuring that the world community reaches the goals it has set for itself. The authority of the United Nations is at stake. It will not disappear in a clap of thunder. It will die with a whimper. It stands to fade away gradually, without at any time making alarm bells ring, and with it, the Organization may well slide into the margins of the world scene. The United Nations needs a new sense of direction and purpose to become, once again, a beacon for mankind as intended by the authors of the Charter. That requires a sustained effort of all Members of this Organization. There is little time left. Let us use it well.  ﻿At the outset, I wish to express my pleasure at seeing you, Sir, assume the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Your election to this very responsible post attests to the important role of your country, Malaysia, a country with which the Lao People’s Democratic Republic has excellent relations of friendship and cooperation in many areas. Aware of your outstanding 4 competence and your qualities as an experienced diplomat, I am convinced that this session’s proceedings will be crowned with brilliant success. I also wish on this occasion to express my sincere appreciation to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the outstanding work he has accomplished during his five years in office in the service of the nations and peoples of the world. The strengthening of cooperation for development among peoples that we have seen in recent years reflects the general trend throughout the world. In various regions, however, we must sadly note the persistence of complex situations and tensions arising from bloody ethnic conflicts and religious differences. Even more serious, we are witnessing interference in the internal affairs of States. Hegemonic policies are targeted against small States through arbitrary economic blockades, which constitute new forms of racism and slavery. This threatens and could destroy harmonious coexistence among States and peoples. The entire international community must work even harder to find ways and means to solve these problems as soon as possible. This is no easy task. We must all be patient and resolute. If we work together, keeping equity and justice in our sights as we have done many times, we believe that we can reach our ultimate goals. In Europe, the Dayton Peace Agreement signed on 14 December 1995 to address the problems of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the recent ensuing elections, marked an important stage in the search for a solution to the distressing and destructive conflict in that country. We appeal to all parties concerned to show maximum restraint and objectivity in their sincere and rigorous implementation of the commitments made, in order to restore peace, stability and cooperation in that region. In South Africa, under the resolute guidance of President Mandela, the South African people are trying to overcome the aftermath of apartheid and rebuild the beloved country. We pay tribute to the new South African authorities for their determination and courage, and hope that South Africa and its courageous people will enjoy every success in these difficult undertakings. In the countries of the Caribbean, economic cooperation and cultural and other relations have continued to develop in accordance with the current international climate, thereby enhancing peace and security in that part of the world. Given this logical course of events, we hope that the United States of America will adopt a more reasonable position in its efforts to solve the ongoing problem with the Republic of Cuba through sincere dialogue in order to respond to the legitimate interests of the two peoples and help promote understanding between the two countries. In the Middle East, following the establishment of the Palestinian Authority in accordance with the Washington peace accord signed in 1993, the peace process was a source of great hope. But recently it has run into difficulties. Events last week in Jerusalem further compound the situation. We are deeply concerned at the situation and the Government of Laos hopes that the coming meeting between leaders of the parties to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict will help normalize the situation so that the commitments they made can be respected in the interest of peace and cooperation in the region and throughout the world. On the Korean peninsula, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States are rightly continuing to implement agreements reached, thereby helping consolidate peace in the region. We welcome this situation, and the Government and the people of Laos express their full support for the deep-seated aspirations of the Korean people for a situation in which a new war becomes impossible and the peaceful reunification of Korea can take place on the basis of dialogue and new, suitable mechanisms that can turn aims into reality. In South-East Asia, a movement towards peace and cooperation has gathered strength. Recently, in Malaysia, representatives of the countries of the region discussed a planned railroad from Asia to Europe, from Singapore towards China via Laos. This project would enhance cooperation in the region. With this in mind, the countries of the region are trying to work together to solve their problems by peaceful means in accordance with regional realities. By remaining true to their policies of peaceful coexistence and security in the interests of development, these countries, including the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, have signed a treaty on the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free-zone in South-East Asia. This historic event is their major contribution. The Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic believes that the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty by the fiftieth session of the General Assembly is a sign of the immeasurable success of efforts made by the international community to bring about the gradual elimination of nuclear weapons throughout the world. 5 In the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, the economic reform that began in 1986 has borne its first fruits for our people. Average annual economic growth over the past five years, from 1991 to 1995, stands at approximately 6.4 per cent. The inflation rate is generally stable, thereby helping gradually to raise the living standards of the multi-ethnic Lao populations. What we have accomplished has helped maintain political stability and social harmony. This was why, during its congress last March, the Lao People’s Revolutionary Party gave an exhaustive account of socio-economic development and decided to continue reform unremittingly on the basis of a market economy. It also decided to aim for average annual national economic growth of 8 to 8.5 per cent and a per capita income of $500 per year by the year 2000. Currently, our Government is encouraging the various economic sectors to develop and is helping foreigners invest in the potential of the country with a view to laying down material and technical foundations that can help the country say goodbye to underdevelopment by the year 2020. This is a major and arduous task which the Government will work hard to fulfil. In its foreign relations, the Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic intends to continue its policy of peace, independence, friendship and cooperation with all countries and international and non-governmental organizations. For now, it will focus its efforts on preparing the conditions necessary for us to be able to join the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) in 1997. This will enable the country to develop along the general lines of other countries in the region and throughout the world. We are pleased that Cambodia and Myanmar have indicated that they too wish to join ASEAN. Positive developments are taking place in the international economic situation. Some countries are showing signs of progress. However, there have been no indications that the world economy will make a speedy and lasting recovery. Increased interdependence and globalization in the international economy have both provided new opportunities and caused new tensions and imbalances, and have, in particular, increased the marginalization of developing countries. The entire international community must act together to ensure that there will be a more favourable and more equitable international economic environment in which developing countries can effectively wage their struggle against poverty in order to achieve progress throughout their societies. The right to decent housing for all is essential in guaranteeing stability and sound development in the socio- economic sphere. We are therefore pleased to note the accomplishments of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, held in June at Istanbul. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic is also pleased to note the positive results achieved at the ninth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which took place last May in Midrand, South Africa. Recently, the World Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children, held in Stockholm, Sweden, seriously considered the troubling situation in which every year, more than a million children throughout the world are victims of abusers of all sorts, and presented various measures to the international community to combat this new danger which threatens the future of the new generation. The Lao Government supports these efforts and is determined to implement them in every manner possible. The problem of drug abuse continues to weigh heavily on the international community. Because of its globalization, this problem can be solved only through effective international cooperation founded on the principle of shared responsibility. In recent years, the Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic has formulated a comprehensive programme for drug control through the year 2000, which consists in a gradual reduction in poppy cultivation through the implementation of integrated rural development projects. Given the seriousness of drugs in our society, we have recently amended our penal code and laid down more severe sentences for such offenses. We have achieved a certain number of satisfying results in implementing this programme, although a great deal remains to be done. With the cooperation and assistance of friendly countries and international and non-governmental organizations, we hope to be able to make even greater progress in the future, which will contribute to the international community’s effort to eradicate this scourge from the face of the Earth. The environment is one of the issues to which the international community attaches great importance. Developed and developing countries alike have a sovereign, sacred right to exploit their natural resources. In exercising this fundamental right, sustained, economic growth must go hand in hand with environment protection, and vice versa. Environmental protection should in no way imply a rejection of economic development out of fear of damaging the environment. As the two pillars of lasting development in all countries, these concepts must be mutually reinforcing. It would be 6 unwise, in our view, to emphasize one at the expense of the other. Only equal regard for these two aspects will guarantee the success of any development effort. We live in a complex and still uncertain world. In this context, nations and peoples throughout the world accord great importance to the United Nations, the only universal multilateral forum for the consideration of world problems. In order to ensure that it can discharge its great duties, the institution needs to adapt itself to new world realities. In this vein, it is essential to affirm the role of the General Assembly, where all States are represented, as the United Nations system’s principal organ for deliberation and decision-making. As for the Security Council, the Lao delegation believes that it should be restructured and made more democratic, and that there should be a limited expansion in the number of its permanent and non- permanent members according to equitable geographic distribution and taking into account the relative importance of the various countries. In an effort to achieve this goal, certain countries, such as Japan, Germany and India in particular, should become permanent members of the Security Council. The Security Council would thus be in a position to meet the legitimate aspirations of Member States, and particularly of the developing countries, which constitute the vast majority of nations on our planet. In this vein, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, in cooperation with other delegations, will spare no effort to positively contribute to the current efforts to strengthen our universal Organization. ﻿My delegation and I are pleased, Sir, to see you presiding over the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Your great experience of multilateral diplomacy, along with the apt initiatives which your great country, Malaysia, and you yourself have taken in many focal areas of international relations make you the right person to guide us and to ensure the success of this important session. I extend my sincere congratulations to your predecessor, Ambassador Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the outstanding work he did in heading the General Assembly at a difficult time, marked by a financial crisis unprecedented in the history of our Organization. Thanks to his abilities and diplomacy, he helped to preserve the founding roles of this institution, namely the maintenance of peace and of economic and social development, and to guide it towards new areas. We are particularly grateful to him for his excellent work at the last session, which marked the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization. The delegation of Côte d’Ivoire would also like to thank the Secretary-General for the active and determined part that he has always played in heading the Secretariat, particularly in the areas of peacekeeping and economic and social development. Accordingly, the Côte d’Ivoire endorses the Declaration of African Heads of State or Government, who, at the thirty-second Summit of the Organization of African Unity, held at Yaoundé, reaffirmed Africa’s right to a second term and 4 recommended the candidature of Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali. Nearly a year ago, on 22 October 1995, a Special Commemorative Meeting of the General Assembly took place, involving 129 Heads of State or Government who had come here solemnly to reconfirm their belief in the ideals of the Charter of the United Nations, namely peace, development, international cooperation, equality and justice, and also to demonstrate their commitment to the reform and modernization of our Organization so that it can take up the challenges of the future. In the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, adopted on 24 October last, we committed ourselves to assuring that we: “will give to the twenty-first century a United Nations equipped, financed and structured to serve effectively the peoples in whose name it was established.” (resolution 50/6) Encouraged by Ambassador Diogo Freitas do Amaral over the past year, the General Assembly and the Secretariat have advanced on the path of reform for the United Nations and clarification of its objectives and missions. The open-ended working groups of the General Assembly responsible for examining “An Agenda for Peace”, the Agenda for Development, Security Council reform, the financial situation of the United Nations, and the strengthening of the United Nations system, have sufficiently progressed in their considerations to allow the greatest hopes as to the restructuring of our Organization, its revitalization with an eye to greater effectiveness adapted to contemporary needs and challenges. I would add that after a decade of study and reflection on United Nations reform, it is now imperative to proceed with such reform so that we can focus on what constitutes the raison d’être of our Organization: its essential missions, namely, the maintenance of peace and security, the promotion of economic and social development, the struggle against poverty, humanitarian assistance, the protection of human rights and democracy, the protection of the environment, dialogue among cultures and respect for diversity. Concomitant with this progress by Member State towards reform, there has been an equally commendable effort by the Secretariat to correct the Organization’s disfunctions, particularly those relating to fragmentation within the United Nations system and the inadequacy of certain coordinating mechanisms, as well as, in some cases, the absence of a rational division of labour, which has led to overlapping and duplication. I would particularly like to mention, among other things, the progress that has been made towards the restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields pursuant to resolution 50/227. On the basis of that resolution, the Economic and Social Council will carry out its work within a rationalized framework that should enable it to attain the objectives assigned to it under the Charter. Its working methods will also be adapted to the necessity of better time management and greater budgetary savings, operating on the basis of a rational reduction in the many outputs of this body, with a view to assuring greater effectiveness. Thanks to this resolution, we should be able slowly to move away from the heavy and spendthrift bureaucracy associated with our Organization. It is in this spirit that, in anticipation, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) was able to reform its working methods, redeploy its people in the field and develop its activities thanks to a fruitful partnership within and beyond the United Nations system, notably with representatives of civil society. This truly remarkable transformation of UNDP over the past two years has enabled it to regain a central role in operational activities for development on all continents, particularly in Africa, where it is steering the United Nations System- wide Special Initiative for Africa. Reform is an act of the will that plays itself out over time. It must be carried out from the inside and under the impetus of Member States. In this regard, we may welcome the evaluation of the Efficiency Board chaired by Under-Secretary-General Joseph Connor, whose work is highly encouraging as to the rational management of the United Nations system. Thus, all the sectors where overlapping and duplication were most obvious have now been singled out with a view to proper management that will generate substantial economies in the budgetary performance of the Secretariat. Here we would like to say how pleased we are that the Secretary-General was able to hold the United Nations budget for 1996-1997 within the strict limits defined by the General Assembly. The $150 million in savings are the result of a set of measures aimed at rationalizing and maximizing the cost-effectiveness ratio of the work of the Secretariat, as can be seen in the first report of the United Nations Efficiency Board, which was made public last month. 5 The new spirit of budgetary strictness and administrative efficiency that is becoming prevalent within the Secretariat and among those in charge of the agencies and programmes of the United Nations system seems to have given us a new awareness of the need for self- examination and for concrete responses to the needs of Member States. With close links between thinking and operational activities, and with an increasing presence on the ground, the United Nations will be closer to the people, and thus better able to take into account their needs in a number of areas, such as employment, education, health, humanitarian assistance and environment. Specifically on the question of humanitarian assistance, we should highlight the remarkable way in which the United Nations has adapted in dealing with the refugee problems resulting from internal conflicts in various parts of the world. There are millions of displaced persons, and this situation is without precedent since 1945. The Department of Humanitarian Affairs, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the World Food Programme (WFP) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) have been particularly effective in this area. I think these examples are enough to rehabilitate the United Nations in the minds of some. If we were to believe its detractors, our Organization would be bureaucratic, behind the times, ineffective and yet extravagant. While some of these criticisms were perhaps justified to some extent in the past, today we can say that our Organization is moving resolutely towards reform and a structural and functional transformation that started a decade ago. Last year in San Francisco, 50 years after the founding of the United Nations, the international community reaffirmed at the highest level of leadership the relevance to today’s world of the Charter and its purposes and principles. Through this important act, the international community enshrined its commitment to attaining the objectives set out in the Charter. The Declaration of 24 October 1995 also confirmed the essential tasks of the United Nations for the year 2000: promoting peace, development, equality, justice and understanding among peoples. It also gave a special place to the advancement of women and the protection of children. In order to carry out these tasks, in the last few years Member States have worked out careful strategies through the cycle, ending this year, of thematic conferences that began in New York in 1990 with the World Summit for Children, continued in Rio with the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, in Vienna with the World Conference on Human Rights, in Cairo with the International Conference on Population and Development, in Copenhagen with the World Summit for Social Development, in Beijing with the Fourth World Conference on Women and in Istanbul with the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II). In this connection, we should also emphasize the importance of the upcoming World Food Summit, to be held under the auspices of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Rome in November 1996. Complementing these initiatives, the Agenda for Peace and the Agenda for Development provide an appropriate framework for thinking about the important interrelationship and interaction between peace and development. Along the same lines, and without being exhaustive in my list, I would like to recall the progress made last year in the areas of peace and disarmament with the signing on 24 September 1996 of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. The establishment of new nuclear-weapon-free zones in South-East Asia, the South Pacific and Africa, and measures relating to nuclear safety and security are also positive achievements in this area. In conflict prevention, on the initiative of Canada and the Netherlands excellent progress has been made in developing the rapid-reaction capability of the United Nations to respond to threats to peace and security. Other initiatives from various sources also bear witness to the growing concern over preventing conflicts and acting in advance, particularly in the area of development, so as to create conditions for consolidating social peace in Member States. With regard to human rights and fundamental freedoms, I would underline the specific, dynamic and publicly visible results of some recent United Nations decisions, such as the establishment of a High Commissioner for Human Rights, the establishment and effective functioning of International Tribunals to prosecute and judge persons accused of serious violations of human rights in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, and measures taken, or scheduled to be taken, in combating terrorism and organized crime. For these reasons, I think we can say that the United Nations is now a much more coherent instrument vis-à-vis its objectives, its missions and its strategies. However, we 6 must complete the renewal that is now under way. I have already stressed that the Secretariat’s efforts to adapt, carried out through austerity measures, are healthy, but the dividends should be used to strengthen operational activities for development. The other central organs — the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council — must make continued, deeper-going transformations to update their structures, their functioning and their working methods and adapt them to special circumstances that are unlike the post-world-conflict circumstances of 1945. In this connection, and with particular regard to the General Assembly, I should say, as I did when I presided over the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, that this body, within the context of the institutional balances provided for in the Charter, should continue to play its full part in the reform process under way. The General Assembly, because of its unique form of legitimacy, is still the best guarantor of the common interests of the Member States. As this fifty-first session begins, we find ourselves at a crossroads. Last October we resoundingly reaffirmed the irreplaceable nature of the United Nations. Today, showing political will and above all a spirit of solidarity, we must now translate that commitment into action. Without this reaffirmation of solidarity, the values on which the international community rests will become rather meaningless. Our Organization must tirelessly continue to seek ways of strengthening this solidarity. We do not see it as much as we would like to, and the frustration of developing countries is growing because of situations in which international cooperation targets are simply disregarded and many promises remain unkept. It is one thing to establish aid programmes and time- frames, but it is another to move ahead and actually do what the international community has committed itself to do. Of course, the United Nations is often judged by international public opinion on the basis of its ability to consolidate peace. But its credibility also depends on its ability to act firmly in order to fill the increasingly wide gap between the rich and the developing countries. It is high time that development aid found its place in an effort to mobilize, in which the actors, the industrialized countries and the developing countries all get their fair share. One cannot talk simultaneously about the existence of universal values, such as democracy or human rights, and still feel satisfied with a situation in which poverty and the AIDS epidemic are steadily gaining ground, thus exacerbating the divisions within the international community and thwarting national efforts. In this context, the effort to combat AIDS must be a subject of particular concern because of its devastating world-wide effects, especially in developing countries, where 90 per cent of HIV-positive individuals are located — 60 per cent in Africa alone — but which do not have the resources to deal with this pandemic. On the question of access to medicines, particularly anti- retrovirus agents, it seems unacceptable to us that such preventive medicines are available to only 10 per cent of those suffering from AIDS/HIV. However, also within the context of international cooperation to combat AIDS, we welcome some strong action that has been taken. For example, we welcome the Economic and Social Council resolution making the question of AIDS as one of the topics for its 1997 high- level segment. We would also place great hope in the commitments made to provide the Secretariat with an appropriate structure and relevant resources to support the United Nations AIDS Programme. I would like to speak more about Africa, as many representatives already have, because the picture painted is often very far from the reality. There is little in common between the usual cliches about the wretched situation in Africa and the velvet revolution which our countries are engaged in carrying out. We have suffered from the scourge of the economic crisis which has spared no continent. We have suffered from the globalization of the economy, in which we have been marginalized. We in Africa are now beginning to reverse this trend. All the specialists agree that Africa has set forth on the path to economic recovery, with an average growth rate last year of 5 per cent. For my own country, Côte d’Ivoire, I can say that after the l980s, which were marked by a difficult economic and financial crisis, the Government adopted a coherent economic policy, backed by thorough sectoral strategies to obtain viable, strong, self-sustaining growth. Stabilization and adjustment programmes begun in 1993 enabled the Côte d’Ivoire to meet the conditions in 1994 for a recovery with greater diversification in our economy, greater weight being given to the private sector and careful management of public finances, and a re- centering of State control in the areas of regulation monitoring and in the environment of economic activities. This policy enabled us to achieve a 7-per-cent growth rate 7 in 1995, and suggests that we can achieve double-digit growth in 1998, which is the goal of President Henri Konan-Bédié, whose plan is to make Côte d’Ivoire a truly industrialized nation. Along with efforts to win the fight for development, African countries have also committed themselves to democratization, as can be seen, inter alia, in the organization of multi-party elections, the establishment of the rule of law and the emergence of a responsible civil society. Backed up by true legitimacy, political leaders are about to succeed in building modern States with the primary purpose of ensuring national cohesion and progress. The advances that we see here and there on our continent must be backed up by more sustained action by the industrialized countries. Time is running out, and we must move quickly from speeches, promises and good intentions to concrete action. The adoption of the Agenda for Development ought, therefore, to be an opportunity for re-thinking the philosophy underlying development assistance, its mechanisms and its modalities, so that socio- economic activities can be placed at the centre of the work of the United Nations. ﻿It is an honour for me, on behalf of Paraguay, its people and its Government, to wish the President of the General Assembly, Ambassador Razali Ismail, every success in his endeavours. We wish also to emphasize the excellent work accomplished by President Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who tirelessly led the proceedings of the past session. For Paraguay, the United Nations is a form that has guaranteed the free debate of ideas and the participation of all without discrimination or exclusion. For a long time, the United Nations has been the mandatory beacon of our nations when their essential rights were threatened. For Paraguayans, the fundamental rights of men and women, one of the pillars of the United Nations, are today vital — and not just rhetoric — in the search for world peace, freedom and security, which only democratic civilian Governments can guarantee. The new historical reality we face — knowing immediately what happens elsewhere in the world and within or countries — means that we all must share a greater responsibility and solidarity. The globalization of today’s world is such that a problem besetting one nation is not an isolated matter, but rather one that must be considered by all. This is why we will have to rethink the age-old question of what path all men and women should take. While we belong to diverse ideologies and cultures, we must nevertheless secure equality, rights and freedoms. Our contributions and suggestions for strengthening the Organization and adapting it to the new realities of today’s world therefore are made in the spirit of cooperation. This is why we request that the reforms to be adopted in the framework of the United Nations be aimed at reducing its fragmentation in order to make it a more functionally integrated structure. Such reform will make possible more fluid communication and much more efficient coordination. This is why we insist on reform to eliminate unnecessary costs through the consolidation of the programmes aimed at the harmonious development of our peoples, and to rationalize and optimize existing resources in order to avoid the duplication of human or economic efforts. The Government of Paraguay, aware of its international commitments, has made enormous efforts to fulfil its financial obligations to the United Nations. In this regard, we send out an appeal for payments of assessed contributions to be made within established deadlines in order to ensure the operation of the Organization. The principle of equity so requires this. We must also state that Paraguay’s position on the reform of the United Nations is clear with respect to the General Assembly. We consider this body not only a model of democratic decision-making, but also — given its high degree of universality and free exchange of ideas — the most important organ of the system. We support the expansion of the Security Council, which requires a larger number of permanent and non-permanent members on the basis of equitable geographic distribution. In this connection, we support the view that Latin America should be represented among the permanent members, in addition to countries such as Germany and Japan. Paraguay maintains that the exercise of the veto should evolve towards innovative mechanisms that would be used more objectively. Programmes that make sustainable economic development possible constitute another aspect the system must take into account. Our country is promoting a social 13 market economy, free and respectful of private initiative, but without disregarding the share of responsibility borne by the Government. We therefore view with satisfaction the leading role of the United Nations in the field of sustainable human development. In this connection, we wish to underscore the binding conventions on the environment, the commitment made by 118 Heads of State and Government to put an end to poverty, unemployment and social marginalization, the important results achieved at Habitat II and the Midrand Declaration of the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. We particularly endorse paragraph 17 of that Declaration, which states that “The lack of territorial access to the sea, aggravated by remoteness and isolation from world markets, imposes serious constraints on the overall socio-economic development efforts of the land-locked developing countries.” (TD/377, para. 17) As such, those countries require sufficient international cooperation to maintain and improve their transportation and commercial-exchange infrastructure. Having signed the aforementioned conventions and having participated in the aforementioned conference, the Paraguayan national Government adopted concrete measures to implement the provisions of the plans of action that emerged from those meetings. Thus, following the mandate of the World Summit for Social Development, a secretariat for social action was established at the ministerial level, reporting to the presidency of the Republic. Its fundamental purpose will be to prepare public policy on social projects and to coordinate the actions of the Government and civil society in order to improve our people's standard of living. We have also prepared a strategic plan to improve education, in conjunction with the educational reform currently being implemented by the national Government. We have also devised a map of basic needs — which is also known as poverty mapping. We have carried out a household survey covering not only urban, but also rural areas. We are at the moment preparing a system of social indicators and social expenditures. Furthermore, a year after the holding of the Fourth World Conference on Women, the public and private sectors at large have been made keenly aware of its Platform for Action, thus fortifying policies relating to gender. I wish to express my Government's deep gratitude to the United Nations system, and particularly to its Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has constantly and tirelessly helped us work towards the well- being of the people of Paraguay. We are aware that our age is marked by unusual characteristics. Contemporary history defines us differently. Concepts have changed. Today we speak more positively and effectively about integration, cooperation and complementarity. The time of sterile confrontation is behind us. This is a time of solidarity and of reciprocal and diverse cooperation; constructive and creative interdependence is the key to our daily coexistence. Today's world needs not only a new economic order, but also a new international cultural order. Science, knowledge and technology must be our universal heritage. An awareness of solidarity is the way for which human beings to understand themselves and others. We should see that without this understanding of others we are insufficient, incomplete and lacking in humanity. Genuine comprehensive development requires the cooperation of all the men and women who inhabit this world. Only in that way will development as a human right, with the blessing of the Organization and with our strong support, find its full meaning and its place in history. Either we remedy our circumstances or we sink in them. However, the disappearance of the rivalries of a bipolar world has, unfortunately, not meant the end of conflict. Throughout this year, we have seen ethnic and nationalistic confrontations that have given rise to overwhelming human crises that have cut down innocent lives, destroyed property and — still more seriously — brought about the loss of the value of coexistence. In this state of affairs, Paraguay hopes that the military confrontations that spill the blood of nations and violate the right to live will very soon come to an end. We encourage the consolidation of the peace process in the former Yugoslavia and the resumption of the peace process in the Middle East in order to find a just and lasting solution in that region. Our country also hopes that efforts will continue towards the resolution of conflicts in Rwanda and Burundi in order to bring about peace and stability in the Great Lakes region. Paraguay views with satisfaction the achievements made in Angola, and we hope that the Organization of African Unity will continue to play an important role in the prevention and settlement of conflicts in Africa. 14 Paraguay notes with great satisfaction the results achieved by the United Nations through its peace-keeping Missions in Haiti, its observers in Nicaragua and El Salvador and its verification Mission in Guatemala, which has achieved major success recently. Paraguay is in favour of continuing increasingly to promote the mechanisms of preventive diplomacy and, above all, of peace-keeping. Similarly, the Republic of Paraguay welcomes the spirit of reconciliation manifested by the Government of the Republic of China. We hope that a dialogue will be established to resolve the situation with the People’s Republic of China. Now more than ever before, stability and peace are the challenge. It is imperative to build a multipolar world to guarantee the equitable development of nations and peoples. Equity should be the cornerstone of universal harmony. In this spirit, we trust that our Organization’s actions for disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons will prove effective and will strengthen our battle against all threats to peace and world security. Faithful to this purpose, Paraguay co-sponsored the resolution on the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which was adopted by the General Assembly last 10 September. We encourage all Member States of this great Organization to sign the Treaty, as I did a few days ago as Minister for Foreign Affairs of Paraguay. We urge that the Treaty be promptly ratified so that it may enter into force. Almost 50 years ago, on 10 December 1948, the General Assembly adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Thus did mankind achieve one of its most precious goals: a Declaration of rights for which peoples and nations, individuals and societies, had always fought. In Paraguay today, we firmly believe that we have learned the hard lesson of living in peace, democracy and pluralism. The era of oppression and of a lack of basic freedoms, economic backwardness and cultural isolation is past. It is part of a sad history that we will remember only so as not to repeat it. The democracy we are building today, with the active participation of our citizens and the solidarity of the international community, is part of an irreversible process. Of course, barely four months ago, a small group, nostalgic for authoritarianism, tried to turn back the clock. But thanks to the prompt support of friendly nations and to the spontaneous and courageous action of young people who took to the streets to defend the democratic process, we were able to abort a military adventure that could have caused irreparable damage to our country. Fortunately, our country is today moving straight towards a strengthening of all its freedoms and towards democratic stability in its political system. We are greatly pleased that Paraguay was able to overcome its institutional crisis with the weapons of democracy. The threat of force against our institutions was combated with our democratic beliefs. The Government averted the danger without resorting to any measures in violation of the Constitution or our laws. Even at the most difficult times, we maintained freedom of the press. No citizen was imprisoned and no emergency laws were decreed. Our victory was based on our belief in political pluralism and the right of dissent. Thus, the calm and decisive action of the President of the Republic of Paraguay, Juan Carlos Wasmosy, restored the autonomy of civilian rule. We stopped being a democracy under the protection of military power and became a civilian democracy, free from interference or pressure from outside forces. Having made this historic, political step, the Government and the people of Paraguay are deeply grateful to the Member States of this Organization for their support during that delicate crisis. In particular, we are grateful to the Security Council for its clear and unflinching support of Paraguayan democracy. This support further strengthened our faith in the United Nations efforts to maintain democratic political institutions, freedom, peace and international security. Paraguay's foreign policy is based primarily on regional economic integration, at the centre of which is the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR). We are convinced that the Latin American integration process is the key to our country’s integration into the world economy and to the consolidation of our democracy. Following this policy, we have undertaken many activities with a view to expanding the links between our internal market and international economic processes. Another important element has been the frontal attack on international organized crime. The task is not easy. For years political and economic corruption were the modus operandi of the dictatorship. None the less, the Government of Paraguay is committed to fighting the scourge of drug trafficking and money-laundering. We encourage the public, national and foreign alike, to report irregularities worthy of investigation, inspection or review so as to eliminate the sources of corruption. With its new attitude of political transparency, the Government has sent a draft bill to the National Congress which defines and aims to suppress the crime of money-laundering, 15 including the laundering of profits from the illicit sale of narcotics, psychotropic substances and dangerous drugs. A national drug-control plan is also being drawn up. Fifty years after the establishment of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, my country — fulfilling the promise President Wasmosy made last year to the General Assembly — yesterday deposited with the Secretary- General of the United Nations the instruments of acceptance of the jurisdiction of the Court. This decision is one further commitment on my country’s part to the universal society in which we believe. As Minister for Foreign Affairs of my nation, I will always remember having been the vessel of this historic decision. We also reiterate, as a land-locked country, the importance of the Convention and the reforms to the Convention on the Law of the Sea. We express our faith in the principle of the universal heritage of mankind through our presence as a member of the council of the International Seabed Authority. Here at the beginning of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, as Minister for Foreign Affairs I would like to take the liberty of making a declaration of faith. Too young to have known the founding, the first achievements, the main crises, the changes and the development of the institutions of the United Nations, I belong to a generation destined to play a role in the twenty-first century. When I was born, the human rights covenants had already been written, the environment was already a concern for all peoples, and the universal diplomatic conventions and legal system of treaties were already in place. Such is our world at the end of the century. Thus, in supporting reform, Paraguay believes that it is necessary to mention through me that there is one thing that we will not be able to change: our purposes and goals, which we must preserve for future generations. We will reaffirm time and time again the equality of nations, large and small, and the importance of creating conditions for the rule of international law. Here in the General Assembly, the soul of the United Nations, representing a young nation which has yet enjoyed 200 years of independence and speaking before age-old peoples and cultures, I reaffirm mankind’s utopia: a common belief renewed that we can affirm this forever to be our home.  ﻿We are glad to see the General Assembly, the key organ in the reform process of the Organization, meet under a President who combines profound knowledge of the United Nations with a reputation for strong leadership. My colleague from Ireland has already outlined the positions of the European Union, which we fully endorse. I will elaborate on a few points to which Austria attaches particular importance. When discussing the need for reform a year ago, Heads of State and Government expressed their political will to give the twenty-first century a United Nations equipped, financed and structured to serve effectively the peoples in whose name it was established. However, insufficient progress has been made so far in implementing this commitment. While the Secretary-General, to whose spirited leadership of the Organization I should like to pay a warm personal tribute, has undertaken a number of important reform initiatives, the Working Groups of the General Assembly have made only limited progress. Much more needs to be done. And we must always bear in mind that reform is not mere downsizing, but pursuing our goals effectively and efficiently. Four principles should, in our view, guide our reform agenda. As the first priority and as a precondition for reform, we must fulfil our financial obligations in accordance with the United Nations Charter; we must give clear mandates and provide the necessary resources; we must ensure the competitiveness of the United Nations system; and we must eliminate duplication, waste and mismanagement. We should like to see strong United Nations leadership in the following areas. As regards human rights, the results of the World Conference on Human Rights form an integral part of the coordinated follow-up to recent United Nations conferences. Austria will play an active role in preparations for the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the five-year review of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action in 1998. Today, our main task is not to elaborate new international standards in the field of human rights but to ensure full respect for the broad body of existing norms and rules in all parts of the world. This requires the active involvement of the entire United Nations system. This includes United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) projects on governance; the United Nations Children’s Fund’s efforts in the field of juvenile justice; programmes of the Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Branch of the Secretariat for the strengthening of criminal justice systems; and the integration of human rights elements into United Nations field missions. In the run-up to 1998, system-wide cooperation and integration in the field of human rights have to be improved. Austria pays particular attention to the promotion and protection of minorities as a means both to prevent and to resolve conflicts. Respecting the rights of minorities is crucial for peaceful development and good neighbourly relations. The case of South Tyrol is an excellent example. Half a century after the conclusion of the 1946 Treaty of Paris between Austria and Italy — of fundamental importance for the survival of the Austrian minority — the South Tyroleans enjoy the protection of a carefully regulated autonomy, which increasingly serves as an inspiration in comparable situations elsewhere. Turning next to drug control and organized crime, it is estimated that drug sales generate more than $120 billion annually, thus exceeding the gross domestic product of many United Nations Member States. This economic power of drug traffickers is a serious threat to the stability and the democratic and legal institutions of many countries. Drug abuse also has severe social consequences for societies and individuals. Therefore, drug control must remain a top priority for the United Nations. Austria will welcome the holding of a special session of the General Assembly in 1998 devoted to this question. In order to make that session a success, we should soon start our preparations at the national, regional and international levels. Trafficking in illicit drugs goes hand in hand with transnational organized crime and money laundering, which can be fought only through intensified international cooperation. In this regard, we encourage closer cooperation between the United Nations International 8 Drug Control Programme and the Secretariat’s crime Division. I turn now to fight against the sexual exploitation of children. A phenomenon closely linked to organized crime is the sexual exploitation of children; this contemporary form of slavery can result in serious, life-long, even life- threatening consequences for the physical, psychological and social development of children. The rights of children and women being at the very heart of our concern, we would like in this respect to reiterate the importance we attach to the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action as well as to the recommendations of the recent Stockholm World Congress on Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children. We are convinced that only a global partnership uniting Governments, non-governmental organizations and relevant United Nations agencies can bring an end to the trafficking and exploitation of children and women for sexual purposes. Peace-keeping remains the international community's major tool to assist parties to a conflict in the implementation of peace agreements or to provide a rapid response to complex emergencies. In view of lessons learned from previous missions, we actively support the improvement of the rapid deployment capability of the Organization, including the establishment of a rapidly deployable headquarters. Currently, some 1,200 Austrians — troop contingents, military observers, civilian police and civilians — are serving in United Nations missions and in the Implementation Force (IFOR) in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We will continue to participate in such operations. In this context, I am pleased to announce that my country will participate in the system of stand-by arrangements. We will also continue to assist the United Nations in its efforts to improve the quality of peace-keeping personnel through our participation in the United Nations training assistance team programme. International training centres in Austria offer training programmes for military as well as civilian personnel. We have joined forces with the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in the strengthening of conflict prevention and peace-keeping capacities in Africa. As regards preventive diplomacy, over the last few years, we have witnessed an increase in the deployment of small political field missions. They play an important role in the preventive diplomacy efforts of the Secretary-General and his Special Representatives, and in the coordination of peace-building initiatives. Austria encourages the Secretary- General to make more use of this cost-effective instrument. We therefore support his proposal to establish clear budgetary procedures ensuring a sound and predictable financial basis for such missions. The United Nations took the lead in developing the concept of post-conflict peace-building. Today, not only the United Nations but also the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) are elaborating concepts of how to assist in the consolidation of peace and the prevention of the recurrence of conflicts. The objective of peace-building is political, but it often requires action in the economic, social, humanitarian or human rights fields. The broad variety of available instruments is amply demonstrated by a recent survey of the United Nations system’s capabilities in post-conflict reconstruction compiled by the Vienna-based Reconstruction and Development Support Unit of the Secretariat. The ability of the United Nations system to act in an integrated manner in peace-building represents a test for its overall ability to reform and to modernize. We call upon the Secretary-General to develop comprehensive criteria and operational guidelines, including on the question of leadership for peace-building activities. We also encourage the Secretary-General to intensify his cooperation with international financial institutions and other relevant actors in this field. As regards regional conflicts, time constraints prevent me from addressing in detail the many situations in all parts of the world where the international community, often under the leadership of the United Nations, has attempted to bring conflicts and human suffering to an end — as in the Great Lakes region of Africa, Liberia and Afghanistan. I will limit myself to a conflict in our immediate neighbourhood, namely the situation in the Balkans: in the former Yugoslavia. My country follows developments there with both great hope and great concern. The implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement lags behind our expectations, especially in the civilian field. However, we must not overlook the foremost achievement of this Agreement: the fact that a very brutal and bloody war was stopped and that the road for Bosnia and Herzegovina’s return to normalcy was paved. It is an encouraging sign that ballots, and no longer bullets, are in place. 9 The elections held on 14 September represent a vital step forward and indicate the Bosnian people’s determination to continue with the peace process. The setting up of common institutions, as foreseen by the Dayton Agreement, is now the number-one task. Notwithstanding the primary responsibility of the parties themselves to fully implement the Dayton peace accords, it is indispensable that the international community not abandon the country after the expiration of the IFOR mandate by the end of this year. We will have to continue to assist the people and authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina in their efforts to rebuild a civil society and to strengthen reconciliation among ethnic groups. Sustainable management of environmental resources to ensure both human progress and human survival poses a major challenge at the outset of the twenty-first century. At present, we are compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. The United Nations has a crucial role to play in achieving a common understanding of sustainability and in promoting its implementation. We therefore attach great importance to next year’s special session of the General Assembly on the overall review and appraisal of Agenda 21. The special session should not only assess the implementation of the Rio commitments, but should also elaborate a global consensus on new important areas such as sustainable consumption, production patterns, energy and transport. The process of globalization also profoundly changes the parameters of social development in all countries. The World Summit for Social Development took up this challenge and agreed on a set of principles, goals and commitments to enhance the benefits and mitigate the negative effects of this process. We welcome the determination of the United Nations system to translate the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit into its operational work for the benefit of all people. We are striving nationally to meet our commitments even in times of budgetary cuts. I avail myself of this opportunity to recall the Austrian invitation to hold a regional follow-up conference to the social Summit in Vienna at the end of 1997 or the beginning of 1998. My next point is disarmament. A more cooperative approach to security is to provide a setting conducive to giving new impetus to international disarmament and arms control. Serious efforts must be undertaken to eliminate weapons of mass destruction and to strengthen the various arms control and non-proliferation regimes. At the same time, more attention should be devoted to areas of conventional disarmament, such as the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms, small arms and arms transfers, as well as to the further development of universal regimes of transparency in armaments. The Wassenaar Arrangement, recently established in Vienna, will make an important contribution to international peace and security. In response to the human tragedy of civilian landmine victims, Austria has been one of the first countries to establish a total moratorium on anti-personnel landmines, and is aiming for an agreement on a worldwide total ban on this scourge of humanity. The approval of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty (CTBT) constitutes a milestone on our path towards a more secure future, leaving behind the nuclear weapons competition that defined the cold war. Austria welcomes the test moratoriums announced by all five declared nuclear-weapon States, and we call on all States to work on the rapid ratification of the CTBT in order to foster nuclear non-proliferation and to spare this planet further ecological damage. The organization for the CTBT and, pending entry into force, its preparatory commission, will play a vital role in verifying the implementation of the test ban. Austria considers it an honour to host such an important international organization and will contribute its share to creating favourable working conditions. The position of Vienna, which already hosts the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), as the centre of global nuclear non-proliferation is further strengthened by the addition of crucial nuclear verification facilities. This fight can be won only by pursuing a double- tracked approach: on one track, non-proliferation is a precondition for ridding ourselves of the risk of nuclear destruction. On the other track, the nuclear-weapon States are called upon to honour their obligation under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to disarm their nuclear arsenals with the ultimate goal of the complete elimination of these weapons. The United Nations should continue to play a leading role in the progressive development of international law. Austria highly esteems the work of the International Law Commission. Currently the elaboration of a statute for an international criminal court is of utmost importance. Austria strongly supports the early establishment of the court, to end the widespread culture of impunity. 10 Finally, I would like to mention the United Nations Office at Vienna: our strong commitment to the United Nations also manifests itself in Austria’s role as one of the headquarters of the Organization. United Nations programmes and agencies based in Vienna represent highly important instruments in international efforts to meet new threats to peace, security and development. I am referring to the key role of the International Atomic Energy Agency in preventing nuclear proliferation; that of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and the United Nations crime Division, which fight against drug abuse, money laundering, organized crime and corruption; of the Office for Outer Space Affairs, the principal United Nations body for international cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space; of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the central coordinating agency for information, analysis, advice and assistance in the field of sustainable industrial development; and of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL), the international centre for the promotion, harmonization and unification of the law of international trade. We would like to pay tribute to UNCITRAL for the able manner in which it is carrying out its task. The Austrian Government is looking forward to celebrating the Commission’s thirtieth anniversary on the occasion of its next meeting, in spring 1997 in Vienna. Over the years, the IAEA and the United Nations Office at Vienna have understood the importance of building a solid reputation for good and lean management. UNIDO has undergone drastic reforms, streamlining its secretariat and clearly defining its priorities and areas of concern. As one of the host countries of the United Nations, we are particularly committed to the reform efforts being undertaken by these organizations and by the United Nations system as a whole. We shall support all efforts to fulfil the commitments we all agreed on last year, to make the United Nations fit for the twenty-first century. ﻿It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his election as President of this session of the General Assembly. His assumption of that high post is a tribute to him personally and to his country, Malaysia, with which my country has good relations and close ties enhanced by bonds of friendship and cooperation. My delegation is confident that his political experience and diplomatic skill will help us in achieving a successful session. He has taken over the presidency from his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diego Freitas do Amaral of Portugal. I should like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to him for the way he conducted the affairs of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali has shown great skill in conducting the affairs of the Organization by virtue of his long experience, his wide knowledge of world affairs and his grasp of the substance of regional conflicts. That is why he enjoys our full support in continuing at the helm of the Organization. Since he enjoys worldwide support, as expressed by several regional organizations, we are confident that the Assembly will support his reelection to the post of Secretary-General of the Organization so that 19 he may continue the process he started in the field of restructuring and strengthening the United Nations and enhancing its role to enable it fully to shoulder its responsibilities in realizing the purposes of the Charter, namely, the establishment of peace, justice and equality and the promotion of development. This session is convened in the aftermath of important events and in the midst of vast developments. The Fourth World Conference on Women achieved good results. Attempts are being made to overcome economic difficulties, promote development, and eliminate phenomena that threaten the environment. It is a good omen that this session is starting at a time when optimism is rising as a result of the progress achieved in settling the dispute in the Balkans. But if satisfaction at such happy developments has been widespread, concern has deepened over the persistence of chronic disturbances and the eruption of destructive civil wars. To confront these events, which threaten international peace and security, the international community must exert greater effort to contain such disturbances and wars. In this context, it is essential to remove the obstacles hampering the implementation of peace agreements in Angola and Liberia. A definitive solution must be implemented for the ethnic disputes in Rwanda and Burundi. The brotherly people of Somalia continue to suffer from long-standing problems. They expect our support for a reconciliation that would meet the needs of all Somalis and respond to their hopes and aspirations. An end should be put to the suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq by lifting the sanctions, maintaining the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq and desisting from premeditated attempts to impinge on its sovereignty and its freedom in decision- making. My country is extremely concerned at the latest developments in Iraq. The United States aggression against Iraq is a violation of its sovereignty and an interference in its internal affairs. We have confirmed and confirm again today that Iraq has the right to territorial integrity and to exercise sovereignty over its entire territory. For the United States of America to consider that Iraq’s exercise of its sovereign rights constitutes aggression, at a time when Iraq is being subjected to United States aggression, is reverse logic that must be denounced and condemned by the international community. The conflict in the Middle East, with the question of Palestine at its core, has been among the priority issues at the United Nations for more than half a century. Now, despite all the talk about the peace process, the fact remains that the Palestinian people continue to be displaced from their homeland. Those who remain are oppressed by the Israelis by collective siege and random deportation, in total disregard of international denunciation of such practices and in complete defiance of the international will, which supports the legitimate struggle of the Palestinian people and calls for respect for international decisions calling for the full realization of all the rights of the Palestinian people, in particular their right to return to their homeland and their right to self- determination. As we have seen ever since the usurpation of the land of Palestine by the Israelis, the fact is that occupation and expansion have always been a constant policy to realize israeli ambitions. Their settlement activities increase daily. Their jails are filled with thousands of prisoners. Houses are demolished for no reason. Rash Israeli statements that the Palestinians have no right to a State of their own are often repeated, along with acts of aggression against southern Lebanon. The Israelis are also perpetuating their occupation of the Syrian Golan. They persevere in the judaization of Jerusalem, including their designs to demolish the most important Islamic shrine, namely, the Holy Al-Aqsa Mosque. These Israeli actions prove that the Israelis do not want peace. Their joining the so-called peace process is nothing more than a smoke screen to hide their attempts to impose their will on the Arab nation and make it bow in submission, thus setting a seal on their occupation and their sense of superiority. My country has publicly declared that the current so-called peace arrangements will not lead to a genuine and lasting solution. Events have proved the validity of our analysis and the depth of our vision. Just, true and comprehensive peace will not be achieved so long as the Israelis are shedding the blood of the Palestinian people. Peace will not be sustainable under the shadow of Israel’s nuclear terrorism and its obstinate denial of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people. Peace can come only through the return of the Palestinians to their homeland and the establishment of an independent, democratic State in Palestine, with Holy Jerusalem as its capital and where Palestinian Arabs and Jews would live on an equal footing — similar to what has happened in South Africa. Anything other than that solution would ignore historical facts and lack realism, and would only lead to more 20 bloodshed and keep the area as a pocket of tension where nobody enjoys peace or security. Five years ago, three western countries — the United States of America, Britain and France — accused Libyan citizens of involvement in the Pan American flight 103 accident and the incident involving the French union de tranports aérens (UTA) flight 772. Despite the fact that those who unleashed those accusations never submitted any proof or evidence to support their claims, my country has declared its readiness to uncover all the facts related to the two incidents. We started an investigation of those whom the American and the British authorities claim are involved in the Pan American flight 103 incident. My country has also called on the authorities in these countries to assist with the investigation. Instead of responding to this request, which falls within the legal framework of the dispute, the three countries have fully politicized the problem, resorted to the Security Council and imposed Council resolution 731 (1992). Despite all this, and out of our keen desire to settle all aspects of the dispute, the Jamahiriya announced its acceptance of that resolution and took practical measures in response to it. The Jamahiriya has condemned international terrorism in all its forms and has declared its commitment to any measures to be decided by the international community to combat terrorism. Libya’s vehement determination to secure the total eradication of terrorism is reflected in the civilized proposal contained in document A/46/840, which calls for the convening of a special session of the General Assembly to study the causes and dimensions of this phenomenon and devise the means that would eliminate it. The Jamahiriya has also cooperated with the Government of the United Kingdom in uncovering the elements accused by Britain of involvement in terrorist acts. In the statement, circulated in document S/1995/973 of 20 November 1995, the British informed the Security Council that Libya’s answers to their queries about the relationship with the provisional Irish Republic Army were satisfactory and conformed with their expectations. Furthermore, Libya has cooperated with the French investigating magistrate who visited Libya during the period 5 to 16 July 1996. During that visit, the Libyan authorities provided him with all the facilities he needed to conclude his mission. Later, French statements paid tribute to the positive cooperation of the Libyan authorities with the French magistrate. The Jamahiriya has proposed several solutions for the trial of the two Libyans suspected of involvement in the United States plane’s accident. It has proposed that the two stand trial before a court whose venue should be agreed upon. Libya has also proposed recourse to the International Court of Justice after the United States and Britain refused to apply the Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of Civil Aviation of 1971, despite the fact that both countries are parties to the Convention. Libya has also accepted the proposal submitted by the League of Arab States, which calls for trying the two suspects at the headquarters of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, before Scottish judges and under Scottish law. These proposed solutions which were either submitted or accepted by the Jamahiriya have been confirmed on more than one occasion and before several forums, including this Assembly. This is a sufficient response to those who claim that Libya refuses to permit the trial of the two suspects, and especially to President Clinton, who said in his statement on 23 September that Libya refuses to surrender the persons responsible for the explosion of Pan American flight 103. Libya has no objection to the two suspects standing trial. The only thing that Libya wants is to guarantee them a neutral and fair trial, free from any media or political influences. We ask this especially because officials in both Britain and the United States, in their statements, have claimed that the two Libyan citizens are guilty and should be punished, indicating that a conviction is pre-ordained before any investigation and before any court appearance. The Jamahiriya’s handling of the dispute has been widely supported internationally and by Arab and African countries. The Organization of the Islamic Conference has declared its solidarity with our position. The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries supported it at Jakarta and reaffirmed that support at Cartagena. It was also strongly supported by the Arab Summit at Cairo. The Organization of African Unity has repeatedly supported it, from the 1993 Cairo Summit through the latest Summit at Yaoundé. When the three countries were confronted by these positions, which confirmed the firm conviction that Libya has indeed responded to the requirements of Security Council resolutions, they started to drag other issues far removed from the dispute and its context. Both Britain and the United States are trying to evade responsibility for fabricating the problem. They have been attempting to depict the dispute as one between Libya and the 21 international community. Is this not a reversal of the facts? How can the dispute be one between Libya and the international community, when international support is increasing daily for the Libyan position? This support is embodied in the support of regional and international organizations, the population of whose members exceeds two thirds of the world’s population. Those two Governments have now come up with a new lie. They say that Libya is defying international legality. The facts totally refute this. Libya is one of the countries most committed to international law. Proof of this is its implementation of the verdict of the International Court of Justice in its territorial dispute with Chad, even though this was not in our favour. Furthermore, officials in those two countries claim that Libya is not a peace-loving State. This is another lie. The Jamahiriya is a peace-loving country. It believes in peace and practices it. Its role in the peaceful settlement of disputes between States has been embodied in its active role in trying to achieve reconciliation between Sudan and Uganda. It has also been reflected in its successful efforts at reconciling the Philippines and the Moro National Liberation Front. Raising what has become known as the Lockerbie crisis falls within the context of these false allegations and fabricated accusations. It confirms a fact that we have stated right from the beginning: that this is a premeditated, fabricated problem aimed at punishing the Libyan people for certain principles in which they believe and certain positions they defend. It is as if those who created this crisis were not content with the difficulties and pains which the Libyan people have already suffered at the hands of the colonialists and the fascists who, on our territory, fought a war that killed and displaced hundreds of thousands of Libyans, and planted in their farms and under their homes millions of land mines which still kill innocent people and impede Libya’s efforts to protect the environment, combat desertification, and expand in the fields of economic and social development. If the aim behind the fabrication of the crisis was not to punish us for certain principles we uphold and certain positions we defend, why did the two countries refuse from the start to apply the relevant international convention — the Montreal Convention? Why did they drag the Security Council into this legal problem, which has nothing whatsoever to do with its functions? Why did they hasten to impose sanctions on us only two months after the start of this crisis? How did these countries accord themselves the right to participate in the voting on Security Council resolution 731 (1992), in contravention of Article 27 (3) of the Charter? Why do the British and American Governments reject any initiative to settle the dispute by dialogue and negotiation? What is the justification for their intransigence in rejecting the proposal of the League of Arab States that was accepted by Libya? Why do these States insist on accusing our citizens when new facts have been uncovered and published in several books and newspapers refuting their claims and confirming that the incident was planned by professional intelligence services to coverup certain suspicious activities? Also, why did these States push the Security Council to adopt a double standard, imposing sanctions on Libya under Chapter VII of the Charter when it did not threaten anybody or in any way compromise international peace and security. At the same time, these countries prevented the Security Council from applying the same Chapter to a major power that sent hundreds of its war planes to attack our country and bomb our cities while their residents lay sleeping in their beds? This same big Power still practises State terrorism against us, freezing our financial assets and imposing unilateral sanctions on us, refusing to respond to General Assembly resolution 41/38, which calls on it to compensate our people for the losses they suffered as a result of its brutal aggression against us in April 1986. The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya has sought to settle the dispute. All it has asked for is that it be settled in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the rules of international law. My country is satisfied because its handling of this crisis was supported by most countries of the world. And here I would like to pay tribute to the members of the Non- Aligned Movement, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the Organization of African Unity and the League of Arab States for their appreciation of our position and their understanding of our earnestness in seeking a quick and just solution. In particular, we would like to thank members of the Security Council who appreciated our response, tried to do us justice and sought to lift the unjust sanctions imposed on us. The magnitude of the suffering of the Libyan people under the sanctions has been detailed in document S/1996/717. Suffice it to say that the sanctions have so far resulted in the deaths of 3,340 persons in road accidents. More than 12,000 persons have suffered serious permanent injuries because of these accidents. Moreover, the sanctions have cost more than $18 billion in material losses. There is no excuse for condoning such injustice, and the continuation of this injustice is wrong. Most countries 22 of the world have repeated their calls for an accelerated solution of the Lockerbie crisis, in accordance with international laws and conventions. The Jamahiriya has accepted that. The obstacle lies in the blind intransigence and illogical demands of the American and British Governments. Should the two Governments persist in their uncompromising positions, refuse to settle the dispute in a spirit of justice and fairness, and relieve the suffering our people have endured for more than four years, the only thing left to the Libyan people would be to appeal to those in this forum with clean consciences to intensify their efforts in order to expose the unjust practices exercised by the United States and Britain to extend the duration of the blockade imposed on a small people. Members of this Assembly should implement the decisions taken by the Heads of State and Government of the Non-Aligned Movement in Cartagena, by the Arab Heads of State at the Cairo summit and by the African Heads of State in the Yaoundé summit not to continue compliance with the sanctions resolutions. They should also consider possible ways of sparing the Libyan people more losses if the western countries persist in rejecting initiatives for a peaceful solution. The Libyan Arab Jamahiriya attaches the utmost importance to the establishment of security and the enhancement of cooperation in the Mediterranean region. It reaffirms its conviction that stability in this area will be realized only through an end to military exercises in the Mediterranean, the closure of foreign military bases, the withdrawal of foreign fleets and the development of a sound formula, refuting the policy of exclusion, that would enable the Mediterranean countries to contribute to the enhancement of their security and the promotion of cooperation. By virtue of its distinct location in that region and the stability it enjoys, the Jamahiriya can play an important role in strengthening security in the Mediterranean by reducing migration from the southern coastal States to the North and the elimination of destructive movements that exploit and have been repudiated by Islam for undermining the stability of a number of littoral countries of the Mediterranean. The Jamahiriya would be able to play a bigger role in these fields if the sanctions imposed on it were lifted and external attempts to undermine its security and stability were to stop. My country supports the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons as a prelude to prohibiting and destroying all weapons of mass destruction. We welcome the international treaties and conventions concluded with a view to controlling these destructive weapons and their ultimate elimination. In particular, my country welcomes the conclusion of the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty. However, we believe that other measures should be taken to guarantee the total eradication of weapons of mass destruction, including a timetable for the destruction of these weapons. It is necessary to take drastic and punitive measures with regard to a major nuclear power that transported nuclear material to its own territory and still procrastinates in disposing of it under international supervision. It is also highly important to formulate an international instrument guaranteeing the security and safety of non-nuclear States. The Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty recently approved by the General Assembly falls short of the aspirations of the peoples of the world to a total ban on all nuclear tests. As formulated, the Treaty merely perpetuates the status quo. It could even pre-empt efforts aimed at achieving a world totally free from nuclear terror. In the context of other steps that should be taken to eliminate nuclear weapons, it is essential to take serious international measures to guarantee the universality of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The Jamahiriya has a special interest in this question because the region in which we live is greatly threatened by the fact that the Israelis possess terrifying nuclear weapons with over 200 nuclear warheads. They also have nuclear facilities that they refuse to place under international control. What adds to our concern is the fact that, in addition to the Israeli nuclear terror which threatens the lives of the residents of Arab cities and villages every day, a major nuclear Power not only turns a blind eye to this terror, but even works to develop and enhance it. This same major Power threatens any Arab country, even if it was merely building a pharmaceutical product factory under the pretext of saving the world from chemical weapons. The existence of the Israeli nuclear arsenal cannot be taken lightly or condoned. If the international community is truly keen to ensure the security and stability of our region, it should take measures to guarantee Israel’s accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the placing of their nuclear facilities under the International Atomic Energy Agency’s safeguards system. There must also be a timetable for dismantling their nuclear stockpiles. Should the failure to force Israel to do that continue, it would be legitimate for the countries in the area to acquire, in self-defence, means to guarantee their safety and enable them to face the Israeli nuclear threat to their very existence. 23 The world has witnessed colossal changes. If we are to adapt to these changes, we must restructure the United Nations to make it better able to respond to international needs and to meet the interests and wishes of Member States. My country has followed the negotiations aimed at strengthening the United Nations system and at reforming the Security Council. We believe that this process, pursued by Member States for some time now, should be accelerated and concluded, resulting in measures that could enhance the powers of the General Assembly, including on matters of international peace and security. We urge that the negotiations lead to steps that would enable the Security Council better to carry out its mandate, in conformity with the principles and purposes of the Charter. Any increase in the membership of the Security Council should be based not on a selective approach, but on the principles of the sovereign equality of States and equitable geographic distribution, taking into consideration the interests of the developing countries that constitute the majority of United Nations Member States. The veto privilege, which has become the focus of interest of most countries, should be at the core of the reform process. There is no longer any justification for maintaining this privilege. The new international arena needs a democratic Security Council, not one in which the few enjoy discriminatory rights. My country, which has been in the forefront of those calling for the abrogation of the veto power, once again urges that the measures aimed at reforming the Security Council include arrangements ultimately leading to the elimination of this privilege, which contradicts the principle of sovereign equality of States and also runs counter to democracy. Preserving it would impede the Organizations’s efforts to maintain and preserve international peace and security. The world cannot be secure until its economic problems and development are addressed. Looking at the international scene, we find that the economies and level of growth of most developing countries continue to languish. It is no exaggeration to state that these conditions may deteriorate further if effective measures are not taken to reverse them. The Charter of the United Nations is anchored on two basic pillars: the maintenance of international peace and security and international cooperation for economic and social development. The close connection between the two pillars requires the United Nations to strive to achieve both equally. We believe that no sound international economic environment can be possible without a true world partnership for development. This requires that North- South dialogue be resumed and that the developing countries be enabled to participate effectively in making decisions affecting international economic conditions. In this context, commitments for promoting development in developing countries should be undertaken in a realistic manner that would end trade protectionism against the exports of developing countries, lift restrictions on the transfer of technology to them and ensure the payment of remunerative prices for their commodities. It is essential that special priority be given to the economic situation in Africa and to the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. The western countries have a moral duty to help end underdevelopment in Africa, given the continent’s suffering under colonialism, when its wealth was plundered by these countries, which stole its natural resources and denied it opportunities for development and progress. As part of the efforts of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya in the areas of economic development, environmental protection, expansion of agrarian reform and the provision of drinking water, the Libyan people, in the midst of their joy at the start of the twenty-eighth year of the 1 September revolution, have celebrated the conclusion of the second phase of the Great Man-Made River Project, whose waters have reached the city of Tripoli, where there is a dense population and arable land. The Libyan people have realized this achievement despite the ongoing embargo and the coercive economic practices imposed on it for over a decade. These measures were recently tightened by a law whose provisions are applicable to the companies of States that deal with us. This constitutes a flagrant violation of the purposes of the Charter of the United Nations and an intentional disregard for the rules of international law. It is also a clear contradiction of the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organization. My country has followed with keen interest the reactions of anger and denunciation following the enactment of that law. We would like to express our satisfaction at the inclusion of an item on this matter on the General Assembly’s agenda for this session. We hope that member States will discuss this question, study it carefully and ultimately adopt a measure to thwart this law, through which the United States of America is attempting to impose its laws on the international community. This Assembly should take the necessary 24 effective measures to end all coercive economic arrangements being imposed on a number of developing countries, in implementation of the General Assembly resolutions prohibiting any country from enacting extra- territorial laws or resorting to coercive measures to force another country to relinquish the exercise of its sovereign rights. The next century is but a few years away. Before it begins, all the members of the international community should use the remaining time to eliminate all remnants of recent decades, which were characterized by tension and confrontation. As we enter the third millennium, we should live in a world governed by a system based on justice, equality and respect for the political and economic choices of peoples. Such a system should embody full commitment to international law and the principles and purposes of the United Nations. It must protect and enhance human rights and strengthen efforts aimed at eradicating poverty, suffering, discord, conflicts, disputes and wars. It should be a system in which no country can aspire to hegemony or abuse its influence, a system that supports the peaceful settlement of disputes. It should give all peoples the opportunity to look to the future with optimism. The United Nations remains the most valid forum and the best tool for building a world consensus in this respect. Let us reform and strengthen this Organization so that it will be able to meet these requirements, all of which emanate from its aims and purposes — the establishment of peace and security, and the promotion of economic and social development in the interests of progress, welfare and prosperity for future generations. ﻿First of all, I would like to express to the President my sincere and warm congratulations upon his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. My delegation is convinced that his skills, his perfect mastery of international issues and his unstinting efforts will bring the work of our session to a satisfactory conclusion. In the same context, I would like to assure him of my delegation’s readiness to cooperate with him in the discharge of his lofty mission. It is also a pleasure for me to commend the remarkable work done by his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who stamped the fiftieth session with the seal of his effectiveness and dedication. I pay tribute to him on behalf of my delegation. I would also like to congratulate Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for the noteworthy way in which he has devoted his energies to the achievement of the objectives of our Organization and to enhancing day by day its credibility. He has all the respect of the Togolese delegation. The economic, political and social context of this session hardly seems to differ from that of previous years: the ongoing conflicts continue to take many victims. Moreover, terrorism continues to have a great impact on the world, and the burden of debt, with all its implications, holds in check the development of many countries, particularly those of Africa. All these phenomena cast a shadow over the international landscape and prompt concerns regarding the genuine advent of peace, security and prosperity, to which all of humanity legitimately aspires. It is in this context that Togo has endeavoured to consolidate the basis of a state of law and to confront the imperatives of sustainable human development to ensure the social well-being of its people. Togo has begun the process of democratizing national political life, and the process has had a normal and encouraging development, particularly in the last three years. The calm, orderly and transparent holding of partial legislative elections on 4 and 18 August 1996 illustrates the resolve of the Togolese people, with the impetus of the Head of State, Mr. Gnassingbe Eyadema, 16 to move forward along the road to democracy, peace and political stability, which guarantee social and economic development. Having learned the lessons of a difficult democratic transition, which ripped the social fabric and cast into doubt the achievements of its development process, the population of Togo is more aware than ever before of the need to preserve and strengthen its unity. By doing so it will be able to effectively meet present and future challenges, ensure its prosperity and make its modest contribution to the building of a better world. The President of the Republic and the Government of Togo intend to continue to work tirelessly in this direction, in concert with other members of the international community. They are satisfied to note today that the people of Togo, through the hardships that they have endured, have acquired a clear awareness of self-responsibility. Thus, having supported the efforts of their leaders for several months, they more and more firmly reject political formulas and organization approaches designed in other climes that have proved unsuitable in the context of their history and culture. In the view of many observers, the Togolese people, through the countless manifestations of its political will, is cultivating the authentic African democracy that we all desire. Last year the United Nations commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of its founding. On that occasion, the General Assembly observed in its Declaration: “The determination, enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war' is as vital today as it was fifty years ago.” (resolution 50/6, first para.) The many ethnic or religious armed conflicts that still scar the international landscape confirm this view of the General Assembly and demonstrate the magnitude of the task still facing the Organization. Africa remains one of the world’s regions of tension, and our continent has been sorely tested by cruel conflicts persisting in a number of States. The Government of Togo deplores the fact that conflicts such as those in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Burundi and Angola have not yet been definitively resolved. The huge numbers of victims, refugees, displaced persons and the massive destruction caused by these conflicts should be enough to convince the parties concerned of the need to put an end to their disputes, which could tire the patience and perseverance of the international community in its efforts. Concerned over the deteriorating situation in these countries, the Togolese Government urges the various actors to seek a peaceful solution to their disputes, through dialogue and cooperation, so that their peoples can at last find the peace and stability necessary for their development. With respect more specifically to Liberia, my delegation welcomes the bold measures taken by the Committee of Nine of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) at its meeting in Abuja last August, aimed at successfully concluding the peace process begun many years ago. These measures, accompanied by sanctions, attest to the determination of the ECOWAS countries to do their utmost to find a definitive and lasting solution to this fratricidal and seemingly endless conflict. At this new stage of the process, it is important for our Liberian brothers to recognize the tremendous efforts made by the ECOWAS States, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations, and to show good will in order to facilitate the effective implementation of the Abuja Agreement of 19 August 1995, which provides the means to end this conflict and to return to peace and to constitutional normalcy. With respect to the dispute over the Bakassi peninsula, my country would like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General’s efforts towards a peaceful settlement. These efforts, which recently took the form of the dispatch of a good-offices mission to Cameroon, Nigeria, Bakassi and Togo, may help strengthen the interim measures aimed at reducing tensions, while waiting for a judgement to be handed down by the International Court of Justice. Togo is determined to work towards resolving all conflicts by peaceful means and to safeguard peace and security on the African continent. Thus my country and its President are prepared to contribute to the restoration of peace on the peninsula and to the normalization of relations between the two countries. In the same spirit, the Government of Togo hopes that the good will shown by the two parties during the visit of the Secretary-General’s good-offices mission will continue to prevail, so that the desired goal may be achieved as soon as possible. The persistence of these conflicts, which deeply undermine our continent’s development efforts, compels me to recall the proposal made at the thirtieth session of the OAU conference of Heads of State and Government 17 by President Gnassingbe Eyadema of Togo aimed at establishing an inter-African force charged with keeping the peace wherever it is threatened or breached. We welcome the various initiatives undertaken to that end to make this idea a reality, so that Africa, with the support of the international community, might better manage conflict situations, which divert the efforts of the African peoples from the priorities of economic and social development. Along the same lines, given the numerous conflicts the OAU Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution will have to face and in light of the illicit trafficking in small arms and light weapons, it is important to strengthen the activities of the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, headquartered in Togo. To that end, it would be appropriate if the Centre, established pursuant to resolution 40/151 G of 16 December 1985 by the General Assembly at the request of OAU Heads of State and Government, could benefit from adequate and appropriate resources so that it could fully discharge its duties. In that context, I should like to reaffirm that the Government of Togo, which attaches great importance to this Centre, will do its utmost to honour its commitments as the host country. The 1991 Madrid Peace Conference on the Middle East and the Washington agreements of 13 September 1993, inter alia, have sparked hopes regarding a negotiated settlement of the question of Palestine and the conflict in the Middle East as a whole. The evacuation of certain occupied territories of Palestine, the establishment of the Palestinian Authority, the repeal of anti-Israel provisions from the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) charter, and the peace treaty between Israel and Jordan, are positive occurrences that bear witness to the progress achieved in the context of the Middle East peace process. Togo welcomes this progress. However, the difficulties that have confronted this process in the last few days, jeopardizing its normal development, are a source of grave concern for my delegation. The delegation of Togo is particularly concerned at the tragic events that took place last week in Jerusalem, which claimed many Palestinian and Israeli victims. Togo, which endorses Security Council resolution 1073 (1996), adopted on 28 September 1996, calls for greater energy in the continuation of the process until it achieves concrete results. It urges the evacuation of all occupied Arab territories, the existence of Israel within secure and internationally recognized borders, and the establishment of an independent Palestinian state. At any rate, it is important to achieve a just and comprehensive peace benefiting all countries of the region, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. With respect to the war in the former Yugoslavia, I should like on behalf of the Togolese Government to heartily congratulate the architects of the Dayton Agreement, signed in Paris on 14 December 1995, and to express our appreciation at the acceptable development of the situation in the light of the implementation of that Agreement. We would like to encourage the main actors in that conflict to continue to seek a negotiated settlement aimed at a definitive return to peace and stability in that part of Europe. Aside from hotbeds of tension, we must note that terrorism, which we condemn, is, because of its pernicious objectives and criminal acts, one of the gravest threats today to international peace and security. We welcome the holding of the Summit for Peacemakers in Sharm el-Sheikh and the recent meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Group of 7 major industrialized countries and of the Russian Federation in Paris. The Government of Togo welcomes the various measures advocated at these two meetings in order to energetically thwart the activities of transnational criminal organizations and their agents. With respect to the safeguarding of peace through disarmament, Togo reiterates its firm commitment to general and complete disarmament, and supports unreservedly the efforts of the international community to achieve that objective. In this connection, my delegation considers that the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), opened for signature by States on 24 September 1996, and which I have just signed on behalf of the Government of Togo, will undoubtedly contribute, if it is accepted and applied by all, to a reduction of the nuclear threat. This would allow the international community to make headway towards the definitive elimination of nuclear weapons, which is one of the most ardent wishes of humanity. As the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations states: “A dynamic, vigorous, free and equitable international economic environment is essential to the well-being of humankind and to 18 international peace, security and stability.” (resolution 50/6, para. 2) This unanimous recognition of the positive effects that a sound international economic climate can have on world stability is absolutely accurate. The growing indifference of a large part of the international community to the search for appropriate solutions to the current economic crisis is becoming increasingly disturbing. Indeed, while in the industrialized countries the overall socio-economic situation is experiencing positive developments and while the disparities in their economic performances are decreasing, we note with regret that the developing countries, particularly in those of Africa, still languish under the debt burden and have great difficulty in extricating themselves from the situation they have been in for several years. As has been repeatedly pointed out, the solution to the economic problems of the developing countries requires radical and innovative solutions, inter alia, the cancellation or appreciable reduction of their debts and the implementation of bold measures aimed at promoting their progress. My delegation welcomes the efforts made so far by creditors to resolve the debt problem. It appreciates the resolve expressed by the seven major industrialized countries at the G-7 Lyons Summit to take additional action to reduce the debt burden of the poorest countries vis-à-vis multilateral institutions and bilateral creditors that are not members of the Paris Club. It welcomes in particular the recent decision of the Ministers for Finance of the seven major industrialized countries, at their meeting in Washington, to alleviate the debt burden of the poorest countries, up to a limit of 80 per cent. Aside from the question of debt, my delegation is also concerned with other problems of development. Aware that they are primarily responsible for promoting their own development through sound and consistent economic and social policies, the developing countries involved in structural adjustment programmes have made enormous sacrifices, which, unfortunately, have not yet achieved the desired results. Thus most of these countries face serious social problems, including endemic disease, hunger, unemployment, a high number of unemployed graduates, strident claims by its citizens and poverty. To confront and resolve these various ills in a lasting manner, the international community must show greater solidarity and mobilize, together with these countries, to render them the necessary assistance. Moreover, in order for it to take off economically, Africa must stop being viewed as just a reservoir of raw materials. At this time of globalization of the economy and the liberalization of markets, it is imperative that African States become competitive in international trade. To this end, they must meet the challenges of industrial development through sustained technical and financial cooperation with the industrialized countries. Moreover, it is important that Africa not become dependent on the exploitation of raw materials, whose prices are constantly deteriorating. The pace of its industrialization must be encouraged to accelerate through international cooperation based on partnership and the support of developed countries, development-related bodies and the relevant multilateral financial institutions. In that connection, the Government of Togo, which created and continues to strengthen conditions that favour foreign investment in its free zone, inter alia, would like to express its gratitude to both its public and private partners and to the industrial development institutions that, through their investments and various forms of assistance, have supported its initiatives in this domain. The World Food Summit will be held in Rome next November. The Government of Togo hopes that the work of the Summit will meet with success and that the recommendations that will be adopted there will help to improve the food and agricultural situation so that the needs of peoples in this sphere can be met. Togo welcomes the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa, launched on 15 March 1996 by the Secretary-General. We see in this initiative a confirmation of the commitment of the Secretary-General and the United Nations system to give concrete reality to the objectives of the San Francisco Charter in order, inter alia, to support development in Africa. At a time when the economic and social situation of Africa is constantly deteriorating, it is important to duly appreciate this Special Initiative promoting a partnership between political and economic institutions and African Governments. One of the Initiative’s good points is that it deals substantively with problems and focuses primarily on action towards peace, political stability and development on the continent. However, in order for it to achieve its objectives, the international community must become effectively involved in its implementation by making a decisive contribution to the mobilization of the necessary financial resources, so that it does not become 19 simply just another initiative for Africa. My Government will devote the necessary attention to it in order to turn the situation to best account. In today’s world, where nations are confronted with the paradox of fragmentation and globalization, the United Nations, more than ever before, has a key role to play. Thus, in connection with the severe lack of resources that has brought the United Nations to the brink of bankruptcy, my Government is among those which believes that no reform of the Organization can succeed if the Organization has to fight for its own survival. It is therefore urgent that drastic measures be taken to ensure a stable financial base for the Organization and to put a definitive end to this payments crisis, which has paralysed it. The principal States in arrears should show the political will to help resolve the crisis. In the view of my delegation, improved effectiveness of the United Nations is a must; but it is also important to promote its democratization. We believe, therefore, that the Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council is proceeding in the right direction. Given the present configuration of the United Nations, and as noted by the Working Group, it is necessary to contemplate an equitable and responsible increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent members of the Council and to strengthen its links with the main organs of the United Nations and with the Member States, so as to enhance transparency. For many decades, thanks to the sustained efforts of the United Nations, multilateralism has clearly been the most appropriate framework for resolving problems relating to international peace and security and to development. The balance sheet drawn up last year, on the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, was encouraging despite certain shortcomings. Nevertheless, much remains to be done. Greater efforts are required on the part of Member States, as well as greater resources, so that a reformed and revitalized United Nations, better adapted to current realities, can respond effectively to the expectations of humanity as a whole. In the discharge of the lofty mission assigned to the Organization, Togo, for its part, will associate itself without reservation to any initiative aimed at safeguarding international peace and security and promoting justice, human rights and progress for the benefit of all nations. ﻿Allow me, at the outset, to warmly congratulate His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, on behalf of the Cambodian delegation, on his election to the post of President of this Assembly. His election is a tribute to his professionalism, as well as to his country, Malaysia, with which Cambodia has traditionally entertained close and cordial relations. My delegation is convinced that with his competence and experience, Ambassador Ismail will guide our session with wisdom and perspicacity to a successful conclusion. My delegation would also like to congratulate and thank His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal for his successful presidency of the General Assembly’s fiftieth session. I wish also to take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation to an individual to whom the Royal Kingdom of Cambodia owes profound gratitude for the role he has played in the peace process in our country — the Secretary- General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali — for his performance and sincere dedication in accomplishing this lofty mission. (spoke in English) The forthcoming 23 October will be the fifth anniversary of the signing of the Agreement on a Comprehensive Political Settlement of the Cambodia Conflict. The Royal Government and people of Cambodia will mark this historic event with a nationwide celebration. The Agreement was forged “to maintain, preserve and defend the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and inviolability, neutrality and national unity of Cambodia” (Agreement on a Comprehensive Political Settlement of the Cambodia Conflict, DPI/1180-92077, p. 8, para. 3) through the restoration of peace and the promotion of national reconciliation in the country. The Cambodian people will always remember the sacrifices made by the international community on their behalf, especially those eminent persons who dedicated themselves to the cause of peace and democracy in our country. We are indeed indebted to them all and remain deeply grateful for their continued contribution to the reconstruction and development of Cambodia, allowing it once more to take its proper place in the concert of nations. The Royal Government of Cambodia, presided over by His Royal Highness Samdech Krom Preah Norodom Ranariddh and His Excellency Samdech Hun Sen, was born of a free and fair election organized and supervised by the United Nations in May 1993. It is now barely three years old, but thanks to the determination of the Cambodian people and the invaluable assistance and support given by this world body and its agencies, other international organizations and friendly countries, the rebuilding of Cambodia has proceeded apace. In “An Agenda for Peace”, His Excellency the Secretary-General Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali spoke of the need for the United Nations to give careful consideration to the requirements of post-conflict peace-building. As can be seen from the Cambodian experience, this is a complex and multifaceted process. The Secretary- General’s Representative in Cambodia The Honourable Benny Widyono commented in a recent article that “post-conflict peace-building is not just a collection of disjointed activities. It requires a holistic concept encompassing political, institutional, legal, economic and social objectives.” This holistic approach has also been very rapidly recognized by the Royal Government. Nine months after the general elections, it launched the National Programme for the Rehabilitation and the Development of Cambodia, in February 1994. At the same time, it was able to ensure political stability, improve security and engineer a rapid economic recovery, as reflected by a strong gross domestic product growth of 7.6 per cent, an inflation rate kept at 3.5 per cent and a stable exchange rate of the national currency throughout 1995. These figures, combined with a liberal investment law and a low gross domestic product of $287 per capita, are providing strong incentives for foreign direct investment, in particular now 13 that Cambodia enjoys most-favoured-nation status with the United States, the European Union and other important countries in the world. Soon Cambodia hopes to obtain Generalized System of Preferences status. In pursuing its aims of structural reforms and development while seeking to improve the quality of life of its citizens, the Royal Government is conscious of the need for environmental protection. Cambodia has become a signatory of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity and the Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification. The Government is ever mindful of its responsibility to protect Cambodia’s rich natural heritage, in the interests both of its people and of the world at large. Therefore, as stated by the First Prime Minister at the First Consultative Group Meeting, held last July in Tokyo, the Royal Government is committed to implementing a sustainable and transparent forest policy in line with the recommendations put forward in a joint study made by the World Bank, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). Being profoundly conscious that development requires security, problems linked with the Khmer Rouge have to be addressed through their reintegration into the national fold, and through the long-term policy of development of rural areas. Military operations near the northwestern border are designed to gradually reduce the nuisance they pose and to convince them to join the national community. National unity remains the target of the Cambodian Government. The recent massive breakaway of the core groups of the Khmer Rouge testifies to the correctness of the Royal Government’s approach. Recognizing that Cambodia’s tragic recent history requires special measures to assure the protection of human rights and the non-return to the policies and practices of the past, the Royal Government has pursued an active policy to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all in Cambodia without discrimination as to race, sex or religion. In these efforts, it has received the technical assistance of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights, for which the Royal Government is greatly appreciative. In particular, Cambodia acknowledges the valued contribution of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Human Rights, Ambassador Thomas Hammarberg. Mindful that human rights encompass political rights, the Kingdom of Cambodia adopted a policy of liberal democracy and pluralism, as stated in article 51 of the Constitution of the Kingdom, in 1993. This includes the free exercise of political choice. In respect of its solemn commitment to the Constitution, the Royal Government is making preparations for the holding of local elections in 1997 and national elections in 1998. To this end, it welcomes international technical and financial assistance, as well as international observers. The achievements of the Royal Government in a short period of time have given it the confidence to pursue efforts towards the declared aims of building a State governed by the rule of law, a market system that secures social benefits and ensuring the long term and sustainable development of the national economy within the framework of regional integration. Hence, last April, Cambodia submitted its official request for full membership in the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) by July 1997, in the recognition that ASEAN is the vehicle for peace, security, stability, shared opportunities and common prosperity in the region of South-East Asia and the Asia-Pacific region at large. Cambodia also takes note that the ASEAN Regional Forum is an invaluable setting to discuss in a frank and friendly manner security issues of common concern and interest to all participants in the Forum, whether large or small countries around the world. The ASEAN Regional Forum has in fact already provided a sense of mutual confidence, as reflected in the comfort felt by all the senior officials and high representatives of the participating countries. It can be viewed as a first step in preventive, quiet diplomacy, thereby paving the way for agreements on substantive issues in the coming years based on the traditional consensus principle, which characterizes ASEAN. Cambodia is particularly proud to be able to associate itself with all the countries in the region and to substantially contribute to regional and world peace through the signing of the South-East Asia Nuclear- Weapon-Free Zone Treaty on 15 December 1995. This marks real progress towards the creation of a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality in South-East Asia. Through the review of the Protocol to the Treaty, it is our earnest hope that all nuclear-weapon States will accede to the Treaty, in line with the aspirations of the peoples of South-East Asia for a nuclear-weapon-free zone in this part of the world. Cambodia’s position on the question of nuclear weapons has been and remains that a complete prohibition of nuclear weapons and their destruction are basic to 14 world peace. Thus, a complete test ban will lead towards the ultimate objective of complete nuclear disarmament. The Kingdom of Cambodia is proud to have been able to co-sponsor and sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, considered a significant step towards promoting nuclear disarmament. This will be the greatest service that our generation can perform to free future generations from the terrible prospect of a world holocaust. While we are addressing the issue of the CTBT and the ban on weapons of mass destruction, we should not overlook the issue of landmines in various parts of the world. Cambodia is the hardest hit nation in the world. The Royal Government and the people of Cambodia pay great tribute to all the generous donor countries that have assisted us in our efforts to rid the country of the scourge of landmines. But how many millions of these cold, cruel and silent enemies still await our unsuspecting and innocent civilian population in remote areas of the country near the western border? Banning them is an easy job. We need international support to fully eradicate them. In his message to the Review Conference of the States Parties to the 1980 Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons last April, His Majesty Preah Bat Samdech Preah Norodom Sihanouk Varman, King of Cambodia, appealed to all countries and peoples, international organizations, States and Governments to take, in a universal consensus, concrete measures towards definitively outlawing, as soon as possible, the production, export, utilization and sale of mines. The Kingdom of Cambodia is therefore gratified by the recent Chairman’s statement for the Third ASEAN Regional Forum held last July in Jakarta. On the issue of the global elimination of anti-personnel mines, the Forum welcomed the decisions of several States to impose moratoria and bans on the production, export and operational use of these weapons. It recognized the need, following conflict, for reinforcing international support for efforts to detect and remove landmines and to assist victims. Cambodia welcomes the initiatives of the Federal Republic of Germany and of Canada in this General Assembly and gives its full support to the proposed resolutions. Permit me to inform you, Sir, and all distinguished delegates that my country is presently facing severe floods affecting 1.3 million people, or one tenth of our population. On behalf of the Royal Government of Cambodia and on my own behalf, I would like to sincerely and deeply thank the friendly Governments that have immediately given generous humanitarian assistance to our afflicted people. I would also like to take this opportunity to appeal to our other friends to help relieve this blight. The Kingdom of Cambodia recognizes the need to focus attention on such issues as the trafficking in narcotics and other criminal behaviour, which transcend national borders and which can so intimately affect the lives of each one of our citizens and undermine our social structures. Such transnational issues do not appear amenable to resolution other than by immediate ongoing management through shared information and coordination. Of particularly urgent concern is the issue of drug trafficking. The Kingdom of Cambodia is a victim of a rapid escalation in the traffic of drugs transiting through its territory. Unfortunately, Cambodia at present lacks the appropriate legal, technical and financial means to deal effectively with this problem. It nevertheless affirms its strong commitment to drug control through effective international cooperation. The Royal Government wishes sincerely to thank the United States of America for its strong support under the United States-Cambodia Agreement to Counter Narcotics. Cambodia is pleased with the decision taken by the Third ASEAN Regional Forum to consider at the next meeting the question of drug trafficking and other related transnational issues such as economic crimes, including money laundering, which could constitute threats to the security of the countries of the region. Through the good offices of the United Nations, multilateral approaches to problems have provided useful sources of information and highlighted issues close to the hearts of many of our citizens. The past summit conferences in Cairo, Copenhagen, Beijing and Istanbul have contributed to the promotion of gender equality, and have given recognition to the role of women and children, the improvement of the quality of life through health care and adequate housing, respect for human rights, and protection of the environment. A further vital, and perhaps fundamental, issue for the attention of every member of the international community must be that of the widening gap between rich and poor nations. This gap and its effects on the quality of life of the citizens of the developing world is directly related to the nature, organization and health of the world economy. Vital decisions determining the shape and nature of the world economy are, however, well outside 15 the control of a vast majority of nations, particularly those in the third world. Since the Non-Aligned Summit in Jakarta in 1992, no indications have been observed of a rapid and solid recovery in the world economy. Instabilities spread more quickly from one country to another, particularly to developing countries, which are now more vulnerable and sensitive to external factors. The continuing trend towards a global economy, with the increasingly free flow of capital throughout the world without reference to national borders, means that the ebbs and flows of the world economy have an almost immediate effect around the world. For many poorer nations, this has resulted in an increased national debt burden with the consequence of greater instability in the daily lives of their citizens. Notions of competition are not realistic for countries that from the outset have a mammoth burden of debt, limited access to technology, and populations ill-equipped to meet the challenges of the global economy. It is Cambodia’s strong hope that through the United Nations we can go a long way towards ameliorating this situation, which is already at a crisis point for many nations in the world community. Therefore, the democratization of international economic relations is essential to ensure that the development interests of developing countries will be taken fully into account. In this regard, it is also essential to place development cooperation at the centre of the United Nations mandate, role and functions. To do this, the United Nations itself needs to begin the process of reform so that it is better able to deal with the conditions of the new global economy. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization should play a key role as focal points of the United Nations system in the areas of trade and development of developing countries. UNCTAD, in particular, needs to study trends and issues in the world economy, especially those that have an impact on developing countries, and propose policies and measures that can address projected problems. For instance, Generalized Special Preference (GSP) donors should simplify and harmonize the rules of origin. By the same token, all political conditions attached to international trade, development assistance and investment should cease. They represent, in fact, a new wave of protectionism. (spoke in French) The delegation of Cambodia is deeply concerned at the financial crisis in the United Nations today. With its modest resources, Cambodia intends to meet its responsibilities to do what it can to ease the financial crisis. But if this Organization is to continue to exist true to the spirit of its Charter, an equitable and fair solution must be found, taking into account the need for sweeping reform in United Nations structures which must reflect the rapid changes in various parts of the world that have taken place since the end of the cold war. The broad reforms and restructuring of the United Nations must also extend to the Security Council to ensure that its work is both democratic and more effective. In particular, Cambodia supports closer relations between the Security Council and the General Assembly through greater accountability of the Council to the Assembly. Priority must be given to reform in economic, social and other areas so as better to meet the challenges and take account of the economic priorities of developing countries against the backdrop of globalization. As one of the founding members of the Non-Aligned Movement in 1956 in Brioni, Yugoslavia, Cambodia has consistently worked to promote solidarity among Members and cooperate in the search for lasting peace in the world and economic development that goes hand in hand with social justice for all humankind. As His Majesty the King emphasized in his message on the thirty-fifth anniversary of its creation, the Non- Aligned Movement is currently meeting challenges unlike those that existed when it was established. Many lofty aspirations for national independence and freedom have become fact, but as His Majesty said: “The majority of our members still have to deal with huge problems caused by unemployment, poverty, famine, drought, landmines, illiteracy, deforestation, racial discrimination and terrorism. We must therefore try to reduce military expenditure and the production of landmines in order to devote our national resources to the economic and social development of our peoples.” In recent years, the world has seen several developments regarding the strengthening of regional security and political stability. First of all, the Kingdom of Cambodia wishes sincerely to welcome the establishment of the Southern Philippines Council for Peace and Development and the peace process in Mindanao. It fully supports the peace agreements 16 concluded between the Government of the Philippines and the Moro National Liberation Front on 2 September 1996. These agreements will undoubtedly contribute to an end to the conflict in the southern Philippines, bringing both lasting peace to Mindanao and prosperity and national harmony to the fraternal people of the Philippines. Cambodia welcomes the Dayton Peace Agreement and the signing on 14 December 1995 in Paris of the General Framework for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Framework Agreement) between the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and other concerned parties. Cambodia welcomes the announcement of the end of the war in Chechnya, thereby ending the suffering of the warring parties, and particularly the innocent civilian population. Cambodia welcomes progress made since August 1995 in the Middle East peace process, particularly the implementation of the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government Arrangements between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel, the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip of 28 September 1995, the first Palestinian elections on 20 January 1996, as well as the beginning of negotiations on the final status between the Palestinians and Israelis in Taba in May 1996. Cambodia calls for the continuation of the peace talks, bearing in mind the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and to an independent State on its national territory with the support of the international community. My country is deeply concerned at the recent situation in Afghanistan where war continues to bring death and devastation. We hope that our Afghan brothers will be able to overcome their differences and will soon find the path to dialogue. With regard to the situation on the Korean peninsula, Cambodia supports the reunification efforts of the Korean peoples on the basis of the principles set forth in the Joint Declaration on Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula of 4 July 1972 and the accord of February 1992. We also welcome initiatives to formulate a definitive peace agreement promoting solid peace and security on the peninsula. In respect of Africa, the Royal Government of Cambodia welcomes the adoption by the General Assembly of resolution 49/142. We are aware of the tremendous difficulties facing African States in bringing development and prosperity to their respective peoples. Cambodia calls for the speedy implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the consolidation of efforts to diversify the African economy. We hope that with the helping hand of the international community, particularly the donor countries, this great continent will profit from the opportunities available to it and join in the efforts to achieve sustainable development, a major challenge facing all the countries of the world.  It is my pleasure to congratulate Ambassador Razali on his election as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. The Barbados delegation shares fully the confidence expressed in his leadership and assures him of its cooperation in the work of this Assembly. Let me also warmly commend his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his outstanding stewardship of the fiftieth session, including the Special Commemorative Meeting on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. That celebration, which brought together 128 Heads of State or Government, stands as a fitting memorial to the historic event. My country’s knowledge of and appreciation for the United Nations system has deepened since we had the honour to host the United Nations Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in 1994. The Barbados Declaration and Programme 14 General Assembly 20th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 3 October 1996 of Action outlined the way forward for the relationship between small island developing States and the international community. The Barbados Conference was the first and to date the only follow-up Global Conference to the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, because it was recognized that small island developing States have a critical role to play in sustainable development. Barbados and other members of the Alliance of Small Island States will unremittingly pursue the follow-up to the Programme of Action because our survival depends on it. We have, however, been disappointed to note that so much of the promise of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States has as yet gone unfulfilled, and we will engage the international community further to ensure that our concerns are addressed. Barbados welcomes the coming into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the establishment of the International Seabed Authority and the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. This new regime for the world’s oceans is of particular interest to us and to small island developing States in general, because of the critical link between the maritime environment and our land mass. Small island developing States are in some ways just coastal zones, and as such have a particularly intimate relationship with the oceans, upon which we depend for food and which are pivotal to our tourism industry. It is in this context that we view with apprehension the use of the Caribbean Sea for the trans-shipment of nuclear and other hazardous materials. While we understand the needs of countries to dispose of and reprocess waste materials, and we recognize their right to do so under Law of the Sea, International Maritime Organization and International Atomic Energy Agency regulations, we fear the consequences of accidents for an environment which is so highly fragile. The Caribbean presents a unique combination of factors which demand that it be treated with special care: large numbers of small island developing States, a semi-enclosed sea subject to violent seasonal storms, and the presence of one of the most intensively used shipping passages, the Panama Canal. The Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community have repeatedly declared their opposition to the use of the Caribbean Sea for trans-shipment of nuclear materials. We look forward to deepened dialogue with flag States and other concerned States and organizations to ensure that we are all aware of what is being shipped, when and where, and how best to manage it. The vulnerability of Caribbean micro-States is further increased by narco-trafficking. This illicit trade threatens the very existence of our democracies, a point that was reinforced earlier this year when the United Nations International Drug Control Programme held a conference in Barbados on drug enforcement and rehabilitation cooperation in the Caribbean. Regional cooperation is the responsible and effective means for implementing international agreements dealing with this matter. The response of the international community to our peculiar set of problems has been encouraging, but it must continue to be upgraded. We suffer not so much because we are major end-users, but because of our strategic location in this traffic. We will continue in our efforts, with the limited resources we have at our disposal, to ensure that the drug traffic does not undermine the foundations of our democracies. We will not stand accused of not cooperating with our partners, but neither will we allow our hard-fought sovereignty to be sacrificed in the tug-of-war between the moral and societal imperative to curtail demand and the need to reduce supply. As we herald the International Decade for the Eradication of Poverty, this delegation is appalled that in 1996, despite the advances in technology and the new wealth being generated by the forces of globalization, millions of children still do not have access to the most basic necessities. Just as we argued at the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) that humankind has a right to housing, Barbados fully supports the notion that individuals have a right to adequate nourishment. We look forward to the World Food Summit later this year in Rome as being the catalyst for major change towards alleviating hunger. Women are among the most impoverished groups in our societies, and gender equality is a major vehicle for achieving sustainable human development. Although Barbados ranks high on the human development index, particularly as it relates to gender equality, the Beijing Platform for Action remains for us a critical policy and action framework. The landmark fiftieth session was an occasion for solemn reflection on the mission and performance of the United Nations and for a constructive assessment of the challenges which confront the Organization in the post- cold-war world. Member States have left no doubt about 15 General Assembly 20th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 3 October 1996 the critical role that the United Nations must continue to play in fostering global peace and security and promoting sustainable development. They have recognized that, notwithstanding its shortcomings, this Organization remains the only universal mechanism which offers the hope of achieving the goals for humanity enshrined in its Charter. The task with which we have been charged is to revitalize the United Nations and to strengthen its capacity to meet the new demands of rapid global change. My delegation therefore attaches the greatest importance to the Working Groups established by the General Assembly to advance the reform process, in order to make the world a more peaceful place and to improve the Organization’s effectiveness in promoting economic and social development. Reform is now the order of the day. No country or institution can neglect the reality of globalization or the technological revolution that drives this process. It poses major challenges for countries and societies, particularly small developing countries. We recognize only too well our own vulnerability to marginalization, stemming from intense global competition and reform of major global institutions, including the United Nations. Barbados therefore follows with special interest the consultations taking place in the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and other Matters Related to the Security Council. The question of equitable representation of small States is of particular concern, and we are studying closely those proposals which take this concept into account. At the same time, we note with satisfaction the broad convergence of views on enlargement of the Council, and the importance being given to measures to improve its working methods and procedures, to enhance its democratic and representative character, and to foster greater transparency. We also recognize the important consultations which are proceeding in the other Working Groups. When this task is successfully completed, we envisage a United Nations restructured and re-energized, to accelerate economic and social development in a world where absolute poverty still afflicts over one billion people who exist on less than one dollar a day. Commitment to reform notwithstanding, the capacity of the Organization to support this global agenda is being hampered by recurring financial crises. The United Nations now finds itself at the crossroads. In April 1996, the Secretary-General cautioned that the United Nations was on the brink of financial disaster. Regrettably, this outlook has not markedly improved to date. Given this prospect, it is clear that resolute action to address this crisis can no longer be postponed if the integrity of the Organization and the viability of its mandates are to be preserved. In our view, we have debated far too long obligations which are so clearly spelt out in the United Nations Charter. Barbados holds firmly to the position advanced by the Group of 77 and China that the crisis derives essentially from the Organization’s cash flow problem, created by the failure of major Member States to pay their contributions in full and on time. More generally, we support the principle of periodic review of the scale of assessments, designed to ensure the long-term financial viability of the United Nations, based on the principle of capacity to pay; but we do not believe that this should be linked conditionally to the issue of arrears as we search for a solution to the present crisis. This Assembly will once again review the many unresolved problems which dominate the global political scene. The world still awaits the dawn of the new era of peace envisaged at the end of the cold war. As a small developing country, Barbados is ever conscious of the peaceful domestic climate it has enjoyed since independence in 1966, which has fostered its economic and social development. We therefore share the anguish of the international community for those countries where internal strife and regional conflict, and their attendant human suffering, continue to deny economic and social progress to millions of their people. My delegation therefore welcomes the peace process which is being implemented in Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Dayton accords. Though still fragile, this Agreement, we think, offers the best prospects for peace so far, and we hope for an end to a conflict which has threatened the very credibility of the United Nations. We hope that the recent elections will be a further major step in the building of the confidence and trust so crucial to long-term reconciliation. Recent outbreaks of violence in the Middle East have renewed our anxieties about peace in that region. The international community yearns for the day when a full and lasting peace is consolidated in this entire region, bringing to an end the long cycle of violence. We urge all the parties to re-embark on this journey and redouble their efforts to recapture the momentum of the peace process, which has so far brokered agreements between Israel and Egypt, Jordan and Palestine. 16 General Assembly 20th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 3 October 1996 In Africa, a number of countries remain locked in prolonged conflict, which has smothered the democratic process and stalled the development effort. We urge the international community to do all it can to stem the explosive situation in the Great Lakes region. Without peace there can be no development, and without development there can be no lasting peace. We therefore hope for an early breakthrough for peace in affected countries, not only in Africa but also in other regions of the world, so that the urgent task of development can be resumed. In our own hemisphere, the situation in Haiti continues to be of special concern to countries of the Latin American and Caribbean region. Thanks to the resolve of the Haitian people and the support of the international community, a viable political and development infrastructure has begun to take root. It holds the promise of nurturing the still-fragile democracy and accelerating economic and social progress which has eluded the majority of the Haitian people for too long. Speaking on behalf of member States of the Caribbean Community during consideration of this question at the fiftieth session, Barbados cautioned that the road ahead for Haiti would be long and difficult, that progress would be uneven, and that sustained support from the international community would continue to be crucial. We believe that this view is still valid. My delegation therefore welcomes the adoption of Security Council resolution 1063 (1996) of 28 June 1996, which established the United Nations Support Mission in Haiti until 30 November 1996. It will provide continuing support to secure and maintain a stable environment that will buttress the democratic and development process. However, come next month, the international community cannot wash its hands of Haiti, declare victory and leave. As recent events have shown, stability, to say nothing of democracy, remains a fragile sapling that will continue to require care and protection. We urge that Haitians, who were among the first in this hemisphere to attempt to define their own post- colonial political system, not be forgotten in the post-cold- war world. Developing countries look to a reformed United Nations to play a major role in shaping the global society of the twenty-first century. It must build on the considerable policy consensus that already exists on the broad priorities of its agenda, including the link between peace and development, poverty eradication, sustainable development, social justice and democracy, issues of governance, and women. It must continue to nurture the participatory impulse of civil society, which has emerged as a major influence on the work of the Organization and on national public policy. It must propel this heightened concern with the human condition in all its dimensions to the top of the global agenda. Barbados shares these priorities for full human development by fostering the empowerment of all its people as it expands its economic and social development. At the same time, it has taken steps to review and deepen its democratic and human rights traditions through the establishment of Commissions on Social Justice and Reform of the Constitution, respectively. These inquiries will assess the extent to which the promise of a good and just society has been fulfilled after 30 years of independence. They reflect the fact that we assign the highest priority to social policy and to the cause of human rights and democracy. The United Nations faces many challenges, but these are not insurmountable if we renew our faith in its mission. Barbados believes that this Organization is still our best hope for fostering peace and social justice and for coordinating the management of global problems. Given the agenda before us, we believe this is a time for more, not less, intensive global cooperation — cooperation that only the United Nations can foster. We remain committed to its principles and will do our part to help fulfil the promise of the Charter.﻿Your election, Mr. President, represents a fitting tribute to you personally for your well-known qualities as a consummate diplomat and to Malaysia for its constructive role in world affairs and remarkable success in economic development and social integration at home. I cannot forget the skilful and decisive role you played as President of the Security Council, in defence of our interests, against attempts aimed at weakening the effectiveness of the United Nations Transition Assistance Group in Namibia. Our two countries have since joined hands in cooperative relations, which are growing from strength to strength. I congratulate you and wish you every success in your challenging task. Your Prime Minister, Mr. Mahathir Mohamad, is a great friend of the Namibian people. His eloquent voice illuminates the burning international issues advocated by the South. It also serves to define most clearly the basis of South-North dialogue, as well as the vital work being done for the developing countries by the Group of 77 and China. Your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Feitas do Amaral, earned himself a place of honour in the annals of history by presiding over the fiftieth commemorative session of the General Assembly. I commend him for his valuable efforts and constructive contribution. Our illustrious Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has been a devoted champion of the Charter of the United Nations, a firm reformer and an indefatigable promoter of peace, social development and peacekeeping throughout the world. Africa holds the Secretary-General in high esteem and supports his tireless efforts in behalf of peace and a better future for humanity, an outlook that is common to the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the United Nations and the Non-Aligned Movement. At the most recent OAU summit, held at Yaoundé, African leaders demonstrated unity and solidarity by endorsing Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali for reelection as Secretary-General of the United Nations. Namibia stands behind that decision. The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations was a celebration of the success and durability of our Organization. At the same time, it was a celebration of the triumph of the will and determination of world leaders and citizens alike to conquer tyranny, hegemony, poverty, 5 illiteracy, social inequities and underdevelopment amidst the wealth and knowledge that abound in the world. President Nujoma had this to say last year, from this rostrum: “During the past 50 years, this Organization has served humanity as a universal market-place of great ideas and collective action.”(Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 35th meeting, p. 10) President Nujoma has also said that the promotion of world peace and security was meant to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war and, moreover, to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. These are living commitments for all nations and peoples and must be realized fully. They bind us together as members of one human race and as each other’s keepers. You, Mr. President, issued a charge to the fifty-first session of the General Assembly in your acceptance speech on 17 September 1996. I thought its essence was encapsulated in these words, which seemed to echo what my leader had said: “The United Nations must begin to embed itself in reality and push the critical issues, especially poverty and social injustice, to the centre of national and public debate. What will it take to do this? Of immediate need is political will by Member States to commit to the principles of democracy and accountability. The nature of democratic practice needed for such an enterprise is one based on careful deliberation and consultation so that compromise to the lowest value is minimized in favour of optimizing the best options that will protect universal values.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-First Session, Plenary Meetings, first meeting, p. 4) I could hardly agree more with those sentiments. I shall never be convinced, and I shall never succumb to the notion, that nuclear weapons assure world peace and security, development, prosperity or equality among nations. On the contrary, I am convinced that peace, disarmament, democracy, multilateral cooperation and resource allocation can unleash human ingenuity and industry for development and social progress. It is for these reasons that Namibia insists on complete nuclear disarmament in all respects. The other day I signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty on behalf of the Republic of Namibia, not out of complete satisfaction but to encourage the ongoing work towards disarmament, bearing in mind the constructive and timely advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on nuclear weapons, as well as the Treaties of Pelindaba, Rarotonga and Tlatelolco, which created nuclear-free zones in Africa, the South Pacific and Latin America respectively. Africa is bleeding, just as the souls of our people, the African people, are burning in misery and mayhem. Their precious humanity and lives have been denuded of dignity and worth. How long must this carnage and dehumanization be allowed to continue in Somalia, Burundi and other tormented places in Africa? The glimmer of hope in Liberia engendered by the recently concluded peace accord, brokered by States members of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and the inauguration of Mrs. Ruth Perry as the first-ever woman Head of State in Africa, must not be snatched away again by unscrupulous power- grabbers and political opportunists. Rather, the newly inaugurated Head of State must be given all the support she needs to pursue a national course of democratization, reconciliation and reconstruction for all Liberians. The long-standing partnership and cooperation between the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations should be brought to bear in the emerging favourable situation in Liberia with a view to stabilizing the transition and to preventing any military reversals. Just as peacekeeping cannot be successful without international involvement, so also do regional post-conflict peace-building and reconstruction depend on international support to be successful. It is here where preventive diplomacy, peacekeeping and peacemaking come together to do good for all. Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, the very able and hardworking Secretary-General of the OAU, is anxious to apply in all those conflict situations, the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. But he is short of resources, including personnel, as well as of appropriate capacity to do the job. Namibia will continue to make its contribution in spite of its limited means. We urge the international community to render generous assistance to the OAU for this purpose. 6 Drug trafficking is a horrendous killer disease which permeates the social fabric of society. Drug lords are notorious gangsters not unlike those responsible for organized crime, with corrupting inroads into Governments, businesses and civil society, targeting youth, students and even small children. The member States of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) recently signed a protocol on drug trafficking in our region and agreed to coordinate their law enforcement efforts to combat this menace jointly. Today, the risk of dying due to anti-personnel landmines in many parts of the world has increased astronomically. This risk exists in southern Africa as well, mainly in Angola, but also in Mozambique and Namibia. This is another area in which SADC is combining the efforts of its members with a view to regional initiatives. Cooperation between SADC and the European Union has made it possible for us to benefit from resources and expertise to deal more effectively with this very serious problem. That is why Namibia welcomes the initiative taken on this matter by my colleague, Mr. Klaus Kinkel, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, and supports his Seven-Point-Action Programme on Anti-Personnel Mines. In this connection, we encourage other ongoing initiatives aimed at banning anti-personnel landmines, as well as the commendable work which some countries are doing in the field of demining, including in Namibia. Namibia therefore supports the inclusion of a ban on anti-personnel landmines in the agenda of the forthcoming session of the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva. In the interest of democratization and national reconciliation, and in order to mitigate the existing harsh and racially biased social disparities which we inherited from the apartheid order, Namibia has been pleading with the United Nations and the rest of the international community for least-developed country status. So far, this plea has remained unheeded in the main, but, to be fair, not entirely. While renewing our plea, it is worth acknowledging with appreciation the implementation of General Assembly resolution 46/204, concerning “as if” least-developed country status, which has aided Namibia in some constructive ways. This was made possible by United Nations Member States, as well as by specialized agencies. We thank them all for their support and also for having extended the “as if” least-developed status for an additional three years. We believe, as most do, that economic growth, job creation, human resource development and gender equality must be visible and qualitative in content as critical weapons against social dislocations and strife. Without exception, during last year’s fiftieth anniversary commemoration of the founding of the United Nations, world leaders dealt, one way or another, with the democratization, restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations. This was as it ought to be. Systemic reform of the United Nations was already overdue decades ago. While the reform process itself is still very much on course, its forward momentum seems to have been deflected for one reason or another. The common position shared by the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the Non-Aligned Movement and other fair-minded bodies and persons is based on the principle of equitable representation and transparency in terms of decision-making at all levels of our Organization. In this context, Africa, Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean each deserve to be allocated at least two permanent seats on the Security Council, as well as a concomitant increase of non-permanent seats in the spirit of democracy and fairness. Namibia has already expressed on a number of occasions a position on the addition of Japan and Germany as permanent members of the Security Council, but not in isolation of the representation envisaged for the aforementioned three continents. At the same time, Namibia believes that the General Assembly was not meant by the authors of the United Nations Charter to play second fiddle to any of the other principal organs. It is a universal parliament of equal members with the same preoccupation for world peace and security, as well as for human survival and prosperity. It stands to reason, therefore, that United Nations reform must not end up by making the Assembly a rubber stamp of other principal organs, be it the Security Council or the Economic and Social Council. We should like, in the end, to see well-balanced and mutually complementary organs and institutions of the United Nations system. Multilateralism is the essence of the United Nations system. Decisions taken by the majority of Member States 7 should not be changed in the interest of a few through administrative fiat. It is for the General Assembly itself, if need be, to reconsider or to change any programme activities or personnel requirements approved previously. In addition to reaffirming their continued commitment to and strengthening, of South-South cooperation, the member States of the Group of 77 and China, in their latest report, renewed their call for a just and predictable multilateral trading system that would ensure the complete integration of the economies of the South into the world economy and the emerging international trading system. To this end, the South attaches great importance to the first Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization, to be held in Singapore in December 1996. Namibia strongly supports this meeting. The 1993 Israeli-Palestinian peace accord and the establishment of the Palestinian Authority raised hopes for lasting peace in the Middle East. Regrettably, bloodshed and enmity are once again threatening to derail the Middle East peace process. Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Arafat cannot afford to waste one more minute. An urgent one-on-one meeting and joint action, which ought to be routine, to end the vicious circle of violence should take place without delay. The first step in this direction is putting an immediate end to the creation of new settlements and to the reconstruction work in the Old City of Jerusalem. The initiators as well as the supporters of the Madrid peace process should also bring their weight to bear towards restoring the partnership for a comprehensive, just and lasting settlement, in the best interest of all parties in the Middle East, especially in the exercise of self-determination by the Palestinians and the establishment of an independent state of their own. And, of course, we are not forgetting Bosnia. Namibia hopes that the progress achieved so far will continue and will eventually lead to lasting peace and reconciliation in the area. Namibia cannot have a split personality on the question of self-determination and decolonization. Western Sahara is crying out for self-determination and decolonization. Only when these goals are fully realized can Africa and the United Nations boast of the complete political emancipation of our beloved continent. Namibia welcomes the high-level contacts that the Kingdom of Morocco and the Saharan Arab Democratic Republic (SADR) have commenced. I should like to entreat them to maintain and invigorate these encouraging political talks. The objective we would all like to see implemented, I believe, is the early holding of a United Nations-sponsored referendum in which only the authentic Saharawis will be able to express their unfettered will and assume their destiny. There is an extensive update on Angola in the Secretary-General’s annual report. In his important statement of 23 September 1996 to this Assembly, my colleague, Venancio de Moura, Foreign Minister of Angola, provided representatives with useful additional information on the worrisome situation in his country, inclusive of constitutional and political issues. I can hardly add to this information. For Namibia, nonetheless, the suffering of our Angolan brothers and sisters, not to mention the children, is of paramount concern. The other concern we have in Namibia is about the fast-approaching deadline of the presence of the United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III) in Angola, which includes financial implications arising out of the obstacles and delays which keep cropping up in the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol. Be that as it may, Namibia is bound by blood and common destiny to stand with Angola. That is why our military contingent attached to UNAVEM III will remain in Angola until the Mission is satisfactorily concluded. This week, the leaders of the Southern African Development Community Organ on Politics, Defence and Security, under the co-chairmanship of President Robert Mugabe, will meet in Luanda to exchange views on the critical situation in Angola and its implications for the region, the United Nations and the world at large. President Nujoma will attend this crucial and timely meeting. Before concluding, let me say that an enduring challenge for the United Nations, now and into the next century, is to reactivate multilateralism as the centrepiece of international relations and constructive cooperation in the emerging world order. This new world order cannot be built with a cold war mind-set characterized by confrontation, military intervention, economic blockade and political 8 assassinations. There is no place for it in today’s world of cooperation and open trade. The General Assembly, where all United Nations Member States are represented, is the ideal forum for resolving the conflicts of interest of the haves and the have-nots, guided by the principles of equality, justice and equity for all. Finally, let me end with President Nujoma’s concluding words, spoken here last year: “The future belongs to the youth and children. Our collective duty must be to reinforce their vision for a peaceful, harmonious and prosperous future in the spirit of brotherhood and cooperation”.  h﻿It gives me pleasure, Sir, to extend to you our sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. We are confident that you will lead the work of the Assembly to success. I cannot fail to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for his leadership during the Assembly’s historic fiftieth session. I would also like to express our appreciation to His Excellency the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts in the service of the purposes of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security and the achievement of its lofty ideals. A series of internal conflicts and explosive situations has threatened certain States. The world faces ethnic extremism and national conflicts caused by mass migrations, flows of refugees, environment deterioration and natural disasters. Such problems have not been met with the rapid economic and political changes that would form the cornerstone of the new international order to which the whole world aspires. A complete vision of that order, its rules and means, has not yet materialized. We should all work towards an international system that is just, balanced and comprehensive. The vital and effective role played by the United Nations in dealing with international issues, in the maintenance of international peace and security and in other areas, the value of which cannot be denied or underestimated for the establishment of the principles of that international system, requires reform of the United Nations if we are to achieve the desired results. Reform should begin with reactivating the General Assembly to enable it to act effectively in a manner that would enhance its credibility in the eyes of world public opinion. We have also mentioned the need to reform the Security Council and increase its effectiveness in a manner that would reflect the geographic, economic and political situation of certain States, in a manner that would reflect the new international order, and would equip the Council to bear its heavy responsibilities. The task of maintaining international peace and security is particularly important at a time of international change; the international community should take steps to deploy early preventive measures, since this is the best way to avoid the eruption and conflagration of conflicts, instead of resorting to political or military measures to end them, which can only lead to incomplete and unjust solutions. Therefore, it is important to reiterate the vital and effective role that could be played by regional organizations in the context of the maintenance of international peace and security in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter. Cooperation between the United Nations and other regional organizations such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Organization of African Unity, the League of Arab States and the Organization of the Islamic Conference should be promoted, since preventive diplomacy and early warning are the best way to prevent conflicts from erupting and to find peaceful solutions. The question of disarmament is of great importance in terms of the establishment of international peace and security. It can be achieved only by curbing the arms race and, in particular, the race in weapons of mass destruction. We believe that the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) requires more support and ratification by all States to give the Treaty a global character. The State of Qatar reaffirms the need for Israel to join the NPT and to place its nuclear facilities under the safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency as an initial step towards establishing a Middle East free from nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. We believe that the interests of the stability and security of the region should compel Israel to do this. The State of Qatar, on the basis of the wise approach of His Royal Highness, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al- Thani, reaffirms its regional and international commitments and undertakes to work through international and regional organizations to promote international peace and security. We associate ourselves with our brothers in the Gulf Cooperation Council and other friendly States in the quest to promote peace and security in the Gulf region, due to its vital importance to the whole world. We are also making tireless efforts to establish friendly and constructive relations with all States of the region, based on good-neighbourliness, mutual respect, non-interference in the internal affairs of other States, respect for legitimacy and the solution of conflicts through dialogue, mediation or international law through the International Court of Justice. On the basis of this principle, we support the attempt to find such a solution to the dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the islands of Abu Musa and Lesser and Greater Tunb. We have expressed our great satisfaction at the agreement signed between the Republic of Yemen and Eritrea in Paris last month regarding the peaceful settlement of the dispute over Greater Hanish through international mediation and arbitration, peacefully and in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and international law, in a manner that will serve the security and stability of the Red Sea region and promote bilateral relations, good-neighbourliness and common interests between those two countries and bolster international peace and security. At the same time, we would like to express our appreciation to the friendly Government of France for its efforts towards a peaceful settlement of this dispute. The State of Qatar has expressed its brotherly feelings and sympathy with the people of Iraq, who are living under extremely difficult conditions due to the sanctions imposed on them. On the basis of that, we have welcomed the oil-for-food agreement between Iraq and the United Nations regarding the application of Security Council resolution 986 (1995), since this would mitigate the suffering of the Iraqi people and enable them to meet their need for food and medication. We call upon the United Nations to create the conditions necessary for implementation of that resolution. We would also like to reaffirm our commitment to the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq, and the principle of non-interference in its internal affairs. Yet at the same time, Iraq is required fully to implement all Security Council resolutions, which should stay within the context of international legitimacy and the norms of international law. We express our great concern at the suffering of the people of Libya due to the sanctions imposed on them. 2 We associate ourselves in this regard with many other Member States regarding the approach followed in the implementation of the sanctions, and we call for the creation of necessary guarantees for the equitable application of the sanctions so that international interests are safeguarded and the suffering of the people as a result of the sanctions is alleviated. The State of Qatar has worked to promote the achievement of a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East. We therefore took part in the Arab Summit Conference in Cairo in June 1996, when Arab leaders reaffirmed that the achievement of peace requires full Israeli withdrawal from all occupied Palestinian territories, including Arab Jerusalem, conditions for the Palestinians to establish an independent State of its own with Jerusalem as its capital, and the full and unconditional withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Syrian Golan and southern Lebanon pursuant to Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1975) and in accordance with the principle of land for peace accepted by the Arabs and by Israel as a serious basis for peace in the Middle East. From this rostrum, we would like to call upon the new Israeli Government to continue its efforts to ensure a successful peace process in the Middle East and to take account of United Nations resolutions, especially those that were the background of the Madrid Conference, and the principle of land for peace, in accordance with agreements already reached. We would like the Israeli Government to reconsider its position in order to give momentum to the peace process, to establish conditions conducive to cooperation among the peoples of the region and to achieve a lasting and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. We call upon the two co-sponsors of the peace process and the international community in its entirety to support the peace process while at the same time providing the necessary economic and political assistance to the Palestinian people and the Palestinian Authority. The State of Qatar expresses its deep concern at Israel’s continued confiscation of Palestinian territories, the establishment of settlements in the occupied Arab territories and the bringing in of settlers in violation of international decisions, the provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War and the provisions adopted at the Madrid Conference. These settler activities in the Syrian Golan, the occupied Palestinian territories and Arab Jerusalem should cease without delay. We would also like to reiterate our rejection of any attempt to change the demographic character of the Arab city of Jerusalem or its legal status, specifically its geographic and geopolitical status before 4 June 1967. We call upon the international community to guarantee Israel’s implementation of binding international resolutions regarding Jerusalem, in particular Security Council resolution 252 (1968), since the establishment of a comprehensive and just peace in the Middle East cannot be achieved without solving the issue of Arab Jerusalem and the problems of the Palestinian refugees, who should be granted the right to return in accordance with binding international decisions and the resolutions of the United Nations. Qatar believes that the process of establishing comprehensive and just peace in the region is the only strategic option and that the decision of the Israeli Government to open a tunnel adjacent to Al-Aqsa Al- Sharif is a violation and desecration of sacred Islamic sites and a provocation of Arabs and Muslims all over the world. It runs counter to the peace process, is a violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention and threatens to freeze the peace process and return the region to tension and violence. From this rostrum, we call upon the co-sponsors of the peace process and the international community to put a speedy end to Israeli actions against the Palestinians in the occupied territories in order to safeguard the rights of the Palestinian people. We furthermore call upon all parties to continue negotiations and implement all the provisions of the agreements reached so far. We look forward to a successful conclusion of the Washington meeting and to tangible measures that would lead to the permanent closing of the tunnel and the immediate withdrawal of Israeli forces from Palestinian areas. The Middle East region and the whole world have suffered greatly from terrorism. We condemn terrorism in all its forms and have always supported international efforts to deal with this phenomenon. We are committed to promoting all initiatives to convene an international conference on this problem. Our participation in the Sharm el-Sheikh Conference was yet another testimony to our interest in this issue. However, we would like to reiterate that resisting occupation and aggression should not be stigmatized as terrorism, since it is done in defence of international rights. We pay tribute to the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have defended their entity and their 3 honourable ideals of tolerance and justice through more than four years of aggression and genocide. We reiterate our commitment to the unity of the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to its sovereignty within its internationally recognized borders. We likewise call upon all parties to completely implement the provisions of the Dayton Agreement and make efforts to bring war criminals to justice. The State of Qatar welcomes the agreement reached to put an end to the bloodshed in Chechnya, and we hope that the parties concerned will work for the establishment of peace and security in that region. Developments in the world economy and the new prospects they offer, starting with the signing of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO), require further measures to help fragile economies to develop and to give momentum to the global economy. It is important therefore to reconsider the issues of the cost of weapons and the settlement of disputes by peaceful means, such as preventive diplomacy and the provision of the necessary material and human resources. The costs saved in this manner must be rechannelled to assist developing countries to bolster their economies and raise the living standards of their citizens. Assistance from developed and rich countries should be used to combat poverty and underdevelopment. The issues of poverty, underdevelopment and deprivation also threaten the environment. The overpopulation of our world has been a constant threat for many years and can only lead to a deterioration of the environment and to the spread of poverty in many countries of the world. Huge resources are squandered on non- essentials that cannot help to bridge the gap between rich and poor countries. The situation is getting more serious every day, and we should all be aware that a solution to these problems requires a reconsideration of the squandering of these resources in ways that do not alleviate human suffering or even meet human needs in poor countries all over the world. Developed countries and international organizations should bear the responsibility in finding the proper solutions to these problems to raise the standard of living of poor peoples. The new world order should not add to suffering and poverty in poor countries. We reaffirm our confidence in the United Nations and our support for this unique international institution that bears the responsibility of dealing with grave humanitarian, social, economic and political problems and that attempts to find effective solutions to these problems in accordance with the high ideals contained in the Charter for the establishment of a peaceful, secure and prosperous world in which cooperation should prevail.  ﻿The world of today is faced with a paradox. While our global interdependence is growing and threats to our societies require globally coordinated efforts, countries look inwards to their own regions. But regional cooperation should never be made a pretext for ignoring the outside world. It should open itself to the world. It should be a building block for truly global solidarity. We need a vision of a global neighbourhood, a global ethic and a global citizenship based on equality, 11 tolerance and solidarity. The globalization of our societies is irreversible. We need to cooperate to deal with its consequences. We have the instrument: the United Nations. At 50, the United Nations is the subject of criticism and lack of confidence. The experience of political setbacks in Somalia, Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia is not quickly forgotten. As in Bosnia, alternatives to the United Nations are sought to deal with pressing international issues. But the tasks of the United Nations have not been made easier by Member States’ refusing to give it adequate resources. Many Members, including some major Powers, still do not pay their contributions to the United Nations fully or on time. It is a shame that the Secretary-General has to devote much of his time to pleading with Member States to fulfil their financial obligations. Of course, the United Nations has its shortcomings. It suffers from bureaucracy and resistance to change. There are inefficiencies, but there are also success stories. We must not forget how United Nations operations helped build peaceful societies in Cambodia, El Salvador and Mozambique, nor how United Nations humanitarian actions have saved lives and alleviated suffering in Somalia, Rwanda, Burundi, the former Yugoslavia and other crisis areas. For security in a broad sense, we need a global Organization. We need the United Nations as a meeting place. We need the United Nations as a guardian of international norms and principles. We need the United Nations to prevent conflicts and to find peaceful solutions when violence erupts. We need the United Nations to cope with global threats to human security. We need the United Nations as a safeguard against environmental threats and in favour of sustainable development. We need the United Nations to promote democracy and human rights. We need the United Nations as a focal point for global solidarity. To realize this vision, we need a strong United Nations. Present inefficiencies have to be dealt with vigorously. Reform does not automatically equal down- sizing. In some fields, we may even have to expand the Organization. But resources should not be wasted. Confidence in the Organization demands financial discipline. A revitalized United Nations means a more focused and more determined United Nations. We need a United Nations that does not abandon its position as the principal instrument for maintaining international peace and security, a United Nations which is capable of acting rapidly with adequate means and resources. Today, I join with 15 other Heads of State and Government in a statement in support of renewing multilateralism. Without political leadership, the necessary changes cannot be made. My Government, the Swedish Government, sees the following steps as immediately required. First, United Nations Members must make a commitment to global multilateral cooperation. Secondly, payment must be made of assessed contributions to the United Nations in full, unconditionally and on time. Thirdly, there must be a commitment to strengthen and renew the United Nations, including a time-frame for comprehensive reform. Fourthly, a commitment to the United Nations as an instrument for sustainable economic and social development is necessary. Fifthly, we must adopt an integrated approach to security in view of long-term threats to our societies. Sixthly, there must be a commitment to early action to prevent conflict and man- made disasters. Finally, there is need for an agreement to develop the capacity of regional organizations to act in cooperation with the United Nations. The Swedish Government is committed to a strong and effective United Nations and we are ready to contribute to this objective. Therefore, Sweden seeks a seat on the Security Council for the 1997-1998 period. Our candidature has been launched with the full support of the other Nordic countries: Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Norway. Members of the Security Council have a particular responsibility for international peace and security. It is essential that small and medium-size countries serve on the Council as well. The principle of rotation of non- permanent seats is important to us, for we have not served on the Council for the past 20 years. If elected to the Council, Sweden would continue to pursue openness and transparency. The links between the Council and the United Nations membership at large must be strengthened. Sweden would take independent positions, upholding the principles of international law. The primacy of international and humanitarian law is a pillar of our foreign policy. Sweden would contribute to a more efficient United Nations role in the new generation of peace-keeping, including better coordination between the civilian and military aspects of such operations. We 12 would also work for clearer mandates for United Nations operations. The capacity of the United Nations to command and control large-scale peace-keeping and humanitarian operations should be secured. We need an Organization capable of coordinating the various aspects of peace operations, including political peacemaking, military peace- keeping, long-term peace-building and humanitarian efforts. In our national planning for participation in future peace operations, my Government is taking steps to integrate the training of military and civilian personnel in order to facilitate coordination in the field. We invite other countries to such training in Sweden. Sweden believes that the sanctions instrument has to be refined. It is an important instrument for helping to preclude the use of armed force. But ways must be found to avoid the suffering of innocent civilians and to alleviate the consequences of sanctions for third parties. This is essential for the credibility and efficiency of the sanctions instrument. The United Nations represents the moral authority of the world community. It has a vital role in seeing to it that war crimes do not go unpunished. The Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda should be given the necessary support. The message must be clear. Civilians must be protected in all armed conflicts, whether internal or international. It should never be possible to live out criminal perversions, to murder, torture or rape with impunity. A permanent international criminal court should be established in the year to come. The financial crisis and the non-payment of assessed contributions to the United Nations must not be used as an instrument to precipitate reforms, nor should they be an excuse not to start urgent reforms. The possibility of using alternative sources of financing needs to be explored further. They could be used on a voluntary basis and serve to finance special needs outside the regular United Nations budget. The financing of global development cooperation is a critical issue that goes beyond the present financial crisis of the United Nations. The willingness to pay is decreasing. Development assistance is at its lowest level in decades. Only four countries — Sweden among them — fulfil the United Nations 0.7 per cent aid target. In our own case, we maintain this commitment despite a very difficult financial situation. Negotiated replenishment of multilateral development funds is not being honoured. The financing of global cooperation is a long-term issue that requires a long-term solution. The globalization of our economies, our politics and our daily lives calls for cooperation. This has been clearly illustrated in the report of the Commission on Global Governance. Industrialized and developing countries will realize that we have common interests, not least in meeting the threats to our common future, the environment. Further efforts must also be made to resolve the debt crisis for the poorest and most heavily indebted countries. We have a joint interest in open borders and free trade, which create growth and wealth. A difficult obstacle to such a development is the worldwide increase in organized crime. In my own region around the Baltic Sea, the Heads of Government have decided to elaborate a common plan of action to combat cross-border crime. I believe that this session of the General Assembly should send a strong political signal that intensified global efforts are also needed in this area. What is needed is increased exchange of information, judicial cooperation and closer cooperation in training, inter alia, through Interpol. Another global threat is the proliferation of arms, both conventional arms and those designed for mass destruction. For decades, Sweden has been in the forefront in the struggle against nuclear arms. The entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is essential. It would be a historic step towards the elimination of nuclear arms. I welcome the report of the Canberra Commission. It is a timely and valuable contribution to this endeavour. Anti-personnel landmines are a threat to development, to reconstruction and to human dignity in many parts of the world. Mines do not discriminate between an invading soldier and a child at play. They totally ignore cease-fires and political settlements. It is imperative that we move towards a global ban on these killers. Stockpiles should be destroyed. Sweden, for its part, will take such a unilateral step. All countries must adhere to the stricter legal regime that has been agreed for landmines, and much larger resources should be directed to humanitarian mine clearance. My 13 Government is prepared to make its substantial contribution to this end. Multilateral cooperation is indispensable for dealing with the crucial issues of survival facing us on the threshold of the next millennium. We have a common responsibility to give to the next generation the tools for such cooperation. True security is global. Sweden contributes actively to cooperation and security in our Baltic neighbourhood and in Europe. Our firm support for peace and development in the Middle East, in southern Africa, in Asia and in Central America is well known. True to our traditions and our vision, we continue to stand up for cooperation and security in our global neighbourhood. ﻿Tomorrow, I am going to sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty on behalf of Norway. We join with almost all countries in celebrating our new freedom — freedom from fear of nuclear contamination and proliferation. By our joint resolve, the terror of competitive madness fell victim to the sheer force of reason. Thanks to the United Nations, the norm of non-testing has been galvanized. It is today part and parcel of international law. In the future, no country, whether it has signed that treaty or not, will be able to break that norm. That can no longer be done with impunity. It will go down in the annals of history that nuclear testing was carried out over a period of 40 years in the twentieth century, and then never again. The decades of negotiations seemed endless, and without the perseverance of this Organization, it would not have worked. Where else could we carve out a global test ban? Where else can we cast norms of global applicability? Where else can we extend an international society based on law and contract? That is what the United Nations does best. It is easy to ridicule years of meticulous negotiations. It is easy to deride the process as bloated bureaucracy and inefficiency. It is easy because that also happens every day, here by the East River. And we must never become used to that. But some processes take time because they are difficult and because they have profound effects on the whole world. Every country, every man, woman and child depend on what we can achieve right here, and every country represented here has a stake in our success or our failure. 8 For more than 50 years, the United Nations has — for better, but also for worse — reflected its Members, global political trends, contrasts, conflicts and confrontations. It has been judged, unjustly, more by its failures than by its successes. The integration of scores of new Member States, peace-keeping operations, the promotion and protection of human rights, and field activities in developing countries bringing relief and consolation to millions of destitute people all bear witness to how the United Nations has harnessed the best of humanity and civilization. Today, the threats to peace come not so much from contention between great States. Today’s killing fields are within States. Out of around 40 cases of armed conflict in the world today, hardly any occur between States. These conflicts are deeply embedded in the history of regions and peoples, where disruption within societies date far back, some being centuries old. The price of intra-State conflict is being paid by civilians. Ninety per cent of casualties in armed conflict are civilians. They literally walk the minefields where millions of anti-personnel mines are strewn. Not only is the death-toll numbing; let us also count the many missed years of economic production, the livestock lost, the schools ravaged, the clinics destroyed. Millions pay the terrible human price. But we all pay a price if the gap deepens between the fundamental norms of civilization and the daily suffering in too many countries in too many parts of the world. Reversing that trend is our moral obligation; preventing deadly conflict is our common challenge. True, the United Nations is increasingly involved in internal crises. We still do not possess the necessary means, mandates and mission capacity to suppress devastating conflict. All too often, intervention comes when the conflict has erupted, when the battles have been fought and the dividing lines have been cemented. When the peacemakers are ready to go, it may be late — often too late. We lack efficient procedures for dealing with emerging conflicts. To individual countries, emerging intra-State conflict may not be deemed vital. But to the United Nations, any armed conflict or threat of conflict must be vital. We need more preventive action and more preventive diplomacy. Here at the United Nations, we need to develop the institutional, legal and managerial capacity to act, which would provide a model for regional action. Preventing conflict and human suffering must not be hampered by the traditional norm of what is essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of States. Killing people cannot be protected by the Charter. A situation which is not visibly dangerous and which does not offer spectacular pictures for the evening news, is all too often silenced and out of the news picture. And since those who suffer have no vote in any of the countries which command the resources to help, it may be all too convenient to look the other way. But reacting in time need not be costly. On the contrary, there is so much to gain, there is so much to save. Much could be achieved if the United Nations were better able to send experienced diplomats and support missions to conflict-ridden areas in timely endeavours to deescalate conflict and reconstruct civil society. We know that the hands of the Secretary-General are often tied in such cases, when it comes to redirecting resources. That is another challenge. United Nations expertise — our expertise — may not show up in a situation because there are insufficient funds to pay for air tickets. Norway is ready to make an extra contribution. We offer to establish a fund for preventive action here at the United Nations. We pledge to fill it with approximately 1 million dollars on an annual basis, and we invite other Governments to join us. The fund would facilitate immediate deployment of first-class expertise for proactive diplomacy. Any organization that fails to change is bound to lose its effectiveness. So we must press on with reform. But we cannot accept intimidation. Withholding legally assessed contributions amounts to just that. Today, some countries in fact pay more than their fair share. Other countries voluntarily pay more than their fair share. Many countries pay too little, or hardly anything at all. We now need to settle on a long-term solution based on a more equitable scale of contributions and scrupulous respect by Member States for their financial obligations and the payment of arrears. We must press on with reform of the Security Council. We are not served by protracted denials of the world as it is. The Security Council must reflect this world, and the issue of a regionally-balanced enlargement must now be addressed. Asia, Africa and Latin America should be represented on a permanent basis. Japan and Germany should each have a permanent seat. And as we enlarge the Council we must see to it that the efficiency 9 of decision-making is retained and that the Council’s implementing ability is greatly enhanced. If we had sat down at the drawing board to create the United Nations today, we would have grouped the most closely interlinked challenges together and designated a limited number of agencies to deal with them. Today, in the social and economic field, responsibility for sustainable development, poverty, population and education is divided. There is too much fragmentation and too many turf battles. We need a leaner — and thereby, I believe, stronger — structure to deal with what we decided in Rio, Cairo,Copenhagen and Beijing. Now we must do what we said there. The Nordic countries, in their ongoing project for United Nations reform, have focused on the other end of the spectrum — the country level. Today, there are several United Nations representatives in one country, often overlapping each other and often contributing to more fragmentation. But political issues, humanitarian issues and long-term development are interlinked. Our organizational set-up should be the same. Let us coordinate our humanitarian assistance activities better, thus allowing us to react more quickly and more effectively. And let us speak out more openly about human rights. Human rights are violated all over the world. But only in a few countries is the human rights situation deteriorating. We may be impatient; we may find that progress is too slow in important countries; and there may be temporary set-backs. But in a world of global communication, facts can no longer be hidden. We cannot build fences around ideas in the age of the Internet. It will become increasingly impossible to derive the benefits of the global economy without exposing political power structures to the scrutiny of democracy. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty established a global norm. This is what the United Nations does best and what it must continue to do. The first Chapter of the Charter calls for effective collective measures for the removal of threats to the peace. Our challenge is to grasp the complexity of today’s threats. No single country is powerful enough to deal alone with the threats that transcend our frontiers — terrorism, nuclear proliferation, drugs, crime, disease and damage to the environment. They all require common action. They all belong on our common agenda. Five years ago in Rio we reached consensus on Agenda 21. That was a call for action. Together we sowed the first seeds of a global norm for sustainable development. Now we must struggle on towards its implementation. Later this year we will start the final work on a climate protocol. No challenge is more global than climate change. We owe it to present and future generations to come up with a binding agreement that is cost-effective, equitable and verifiable. That process will require a combined political and scientific craftsmanship which will need to draw upon every experience we have had in multilateral diplomacy so far. There can be no civilized world unless we unite to strengthen multilateralism by establishing global norms, by building and raising the minimum standards of inter- and intra-State behaviour, and by building new norms of international accountability. The war crimes tribunal in The Hague is a building-block in that edifice. The preventive aspect would be served if the Karadzic´s and Mladic´s of this world were brought to justice to answer for their crimes. But again, conflicts should not be allowed to go that far. We must be able to address the root causes of conflict in time. That is what prevention is all about. That is the win-win game we should all be playing. We cannot afford not to do so.  ﻿At the outset, I wish to extend my sincere congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail of Malaysia on his unanimous election to the high post of the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. I also wish to express my appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Freitas do Amaral for his excellent stewardship of the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. The current session is being held at a time when the contours of a new international system are still being shaped. The twentieth century has witnessed the generation of enormous wealth. However, its distribution among regions, individual States and groups within States remains uneven. Scientific and technological developments have led to great strides in the advancement of human society while they have posed potentially disruptive threats to its survival. Trends towards globalization and integration are accompanied by the forces of fragmentation and marginalization. The winds of sweeping democratic change have touched the greater part of the family of nations. By and large, the world today finds itself at a momentous juncture, at a time of both opportunities and challenges. Today no country can afford to stay aloof from the tremendous transformations that are going on. In Mongolia, this year ushered in a new era. As a result of general elections held last summer, State power has been peacefully transferred to democratic political forces for the first time in 75 years. This marks the logical culmination of the 1990 democratic revolution and lays a solid foundation for stable democratic development. It is 10 also a result of the simultaneous pursuit of both political and economic reforms. The reform process is complex, time-consuming and challenging. Mongolia is not alone in facing the challenges inherent in laying the foundations of an open, democratic, just and humane society and in creating conditions for accelerated social and economic development. Like many other developing countries undergoing fundamental changes, Mongolia is faced with a host of problems: a low level of development, poverty, unemployment, an external debt burden and an underdeveloped national economic structure vulnerable to fluctuations on the world market. In spite of those hardships, the Government of Mongolia is determined to undertake decisive measures to speed up the reform process. The Government of Mongolia, while preserving the continuity of its multipillared foreign policy, is resolved to pursue an active, balanced foreign policy based on national interests. Mongolia will continue its strong support for the multifaceted activities of the United Nations as one of the main pillars of its foreign policy. A few days ago the international community witnessed a landmark event designed to attain the goal of a nuclear- weapon-free world. I refer to the adoption by the General Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. This morning I had the privilege of signing the Treaty on behalf of Mongolia. It is of paramount importance, in our view, that all the declared nuclear Powers and threshold States accede to the Treaty so that the many years of hard work that went into it may yield tangible results. With a view to contributing to an effective implementation of this important Treaty, Mongolia will actively participate in its international monitoring system. We believe that the creation of more nuclear-weapon- free zones in different regions of the world will contribute to the strengthening of regional and international peace and security. Therefore, we commend and support the Declarations of Africa and South-East Asia as nuclear- weapon-free zones. In 1992, Mongolia declared its territory a nuclear-weapon-free zone, and I am pleased to note here that the nuclear-weapon States, along with other countries, have welcomed and supported our initiative. Mongolia intends to formalize and upgrade the status of the zone to the international level. In a broader context, it is essential to provide assurances to non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, in the form of an international instrument. The advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the illegality of the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, as well as the important recommendations contained in the report of the Canberra Commission, could serve as a sound basis in further negotiations on non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament. While expressing Mongolia’s satisfaction with the Chemical Weapons Convention that will soon come into force, I should like to stress the importance of its ratification by States with substantial arsenals of chemical weapons so that the Convention can be more effective in eliminating this type of weapon of mass destruction. Turning to regional issues, I should like to underline in particular our deep concern over the uncertain situations in the Balkans and on the Korean peninsula. The recent events in the Middle East are adversely affecting the peace process that is under way. We believe that the parties concerned should exercise utmost restraint and resolve the problems by political negotiation, as envisaged in the Madrid and Oslo agreements. The peaceful advancement of the human family and its safety can no longer be assured in a world characterized by abject poverty, external debt burdens, a growing technological and economic gap between the rich and the poor, widespread hunger and malnutrition, increasing violence and discrimination, crimes and drug use. It would probably be axiomatic to say that no one can ensure his or her own security at the expense of others. However, merely acknowledging this fact can hardly help solve the problem. There must be real determination and political will, coupled with collective action, to face the challenges ahead. The recent international conferences on children, the environment, human rights, population, social development and human settlements organized under the auspices of the United Nations have forged a clear vision and a forward-looking strategy for our common and concerted action toward the betterment of the human condition. Mongolia holds the view that this new framework for international development cooperation should find its due reflection in the Agenda for Development, which would ensure their integrated and comprehensive implementation and follow-up. Vital, in this regard, is a coherent coordination of the policies and activities of the various entities of the United Nations system and those of the Bretton Woods institutions at the global and national levels. The implementation of the decisions of the aforementioned conferences requires genuine political commitment on the part of the international community and its individual members to substantially increase the resources for sustainable human development. We believe that mobilization of added financial resources can be made possible by reducing global military spending and capturing the resultant peace dividend for human priority needs. Our common and shared future calls for the donor countries that have not yet done so to honour their long-standing commitment to the 0.7 per cent target. We welcome and support the World Trade Organization as a multilateral forum for defining an international trade policy aimed at coordinating and promoting the interests of countries with different levels of development. Mongolia will join this Organization shortly, which will allow it a greater involvement in world trade and economic integration. Likewise, Mongolia will actively endeavour to secure its proper place in the Asia-Pacific integration, a region characterized by high economic development and overall political stability. Handicapped by their geographical location, the land- locked developing countries face particular difficulties in their development efforts. Owing to their disadvantaged position, they risk being further isolated and marginalized from the globalization process. In this connection, I wish to emphasize the practical importance of implementing the Global Framework for Transit Transport Cooperation Between Land-locked and Transit-developing Countries and the Donor Community, endorsed by the General Assembly at its last session. South-South cooperation has become a potential instrument for accelerating the effective integration of developing countries into the global economy. I believe that the conference on finance, trade and investment to be held in Costa Rica next January will help to further enhance South-South cooperation by identifying its future priorities. With the acceleration of scientific and technological progress, the question of protecting the environment from mercantile human activities is acquiring an ever-increasing importance. Effective international cooperation aimed at offsetting the adverse effects of industrialization on countries, especially in environmentally sensitive regions; preserving their unique nature and ecosystems; shielding them from natural disasters; and mitigating the damage inflicted is the order of the day. Furthermore, this requires an allocation of additional resources and their effective utilization. Elaboration of a national strategy for sustainable development, in line with the Earth Summit Declaration and Agenda 21, is well under way in my country. Mongolia attaches particular importance to the special session of the General Assembly scheduled for 1997 to review the implementation of Agenda 21. In preparation for that session, a study could be conducted on the root causes of the considerable increase in natural disasters over recent years, as noted in the report of the Secretary- General on the work of the Organization. Today, it is vital to foster respect for and compliance with the norms of international law. In this regard, Mongolia welcomes the establishment of the International Seabed Authority and supports the creation of an international criminal court. We believe that the international community should elaborate the guiding principles of conducting international negotiations — the main instrument of bilateral and international diplomacy. Mongolia fully shares the view that the United Nations should be restructured, its activities modified and democratized, and its effectiveness and efficiency improved along the lines of the objectives set forth in the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations. I hope that the ongoing deliberations in the high-level Working Groups of the General Assembly will result in the adoption of specific action-oriented recommendations that will make the United Nations better equipped, financed and structured to serve the ideals enshrined in the Charter. Security Council reform should be intensified through the introduction of greater transparency in its activities and the democratization of its working methods. The expansion of its composition must ensure the fair and equitable representation of various regions and groups of States as well as its increased effectiveness and efficiency. It goes without saying that, in the final analysis, this world Organization can be only as good as its Member States allow it to be. Less than four years separate us from the next millennium. The time has come for resolute action. The time has come to collectively undertake radical changes. The time has come to fulfil the dreams of our forefathers to build a better future for our children.  ﻿May I first join preceding speakers and congratulate you most sincerely, Sir, on behalf of the Government and the people of the Republic of Suriname on your unanimous election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. On behalf of my delegation, I pledge you our full support as you carry out the weighty and challenging responsibilities of your office. I also wish to pay tribute to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral for the excellent and exemplary manner in which he presided over the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. The dynamic and extraordinary manner in which Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali has accomplished his mission as Secretary-General in difficult circumstances of financial constraints and wars within and among Nations, and his fostering of social and economic development, has earned our sincere gratitude. My Government believes that notable endeavours have been undertaken by His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali to shape the future of the United Nations in accordance with the needs and aspirations of today’s world. As members may know, the people of the Republic of Suriname, availing themselves of their fundamental democratic right through fair, free and secret elections on 23 May and 5 September 1996, have elected the new political leadership of the country. As testimony to this democratic process, I stand before the Assembly on behalf of my Government and people as the newly elected President of the Republic of Suriname. My Government believes that the main challenge facing us is the difficult task of reversing the current tendency towards the social disintegration of the nation into a process of nation- building and creating social harmony. The need for this is even more pressing, considering that Suriname has a small population, composed of different ethnic and indigenous groups and that the living conditions of large segments of its population have deteriorated significantly. One of the fundamental problems in meeting this challenge lies in the development of an economy that is diversified and not dependent on just one economic sector — and even less, dependent on a single donor country. In order to ensure that our people have the actual enjoyment of human rights in the widest sense of the word, a social system will be created that will focus attention on guaranteeing every citizen minimal social security; creating a society in which the quality of life is equal for all and harmony is safeguarded; offering Surinamese women greater opportunities to develop their potentialities and to participate in the social structures, as well as enhancing, in the widest sense of the word, the care for the Surinamese child; providing for the basic needs of the people, such as food supply, health care, education, housing, public transport, water supply, employment, passable roads and affordable energy supply; and guaranteeing the protection of property by means of adequate security. The Government of Suriname is aware that the realization of these tasks will demand great efforts from the Government itself and from the entire population. In this endeavour we shall work to bring about the administrative and budgetary decentralization of the administration through the strengthening of people- oriented democracy by giving participatory democracy the scope to develop. The decentralization of legislation and administration will be given further attention, to facilitate regional and local development, with the full participation of regional and local structures. The necessary conditions will be created for an integrated approach to the development of the districts and the interior, so as to eliminate development lag in these regions. We fully realize that the responsibility for achieving this goal lies primarily with the Government and the people of Suriname. We acknowledge, however, that we live in a larger world, in a period in which having friendly relations is of eminent importance. In accordance with international law, and on the basis of the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of the Non-Aligned Movement, Suriname will establish and maintain relations with friendly nations and international and regional organizations throughout the world. Close relations with countries that are our neighbours from a historical, cultural or geographical point of view, especially France, Brazil and Guyana, and 5 with Venezuela, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United States of America, will be maintained and deepened. Furthermore, we will strengthen our efforts for full integration into the subregion, into the wider Caribbean region and into the Americas through our membership in the Caribbean Community and the Association of Caribbean States and through our participation in the free-trade zone to be established in the year 2005. This approach demands a more business-like stance in multilateral and bilateral relations as concerns the principles of equality, mutual respect, and the interest and protection of our national sovereignty. One of the most important characteristics of our era is the transitional phase we are going through, in which new ideas, new Powers, new values and norms have arisen, leaving their mark on both national and international politics, on the national and international economy, and on the formation and content of international relations. The United Nations, which plays a crucial role in defining international relations and creating favourable conditions for peace, stability and development, reflects this transitional process. In considering the need to redefine the role and tasks of the United Nations in the post-cold-war era, some people question whether the United Nations still has a role to play in the international arena. As far as Suriname is concerned, the United Nations, as a centre of multilateral relations, has demonstrated its ability to play a unique role in the achievement of overall human development on a global scale. The United Nations has also demonstrated an extraordinary capacity for giving primacy to the ideals and aspirations enshrined in its Charter, and has indeed proved to be effective in the pursuit of such essential tasks as the maintenance of peace and security and the promotion of development. Along these lines, we would like to emphasize that the continuation of the United Nations as a centre for multilateral discussion and action is indispensable. We acknowledge the need, however, to redefine its functions. First, there is a clear need to reform its bureaucratic structures in order to make it more effective and efficient and to bring it more in line with the aspirations of the majority of the world’s population. Secondly, we must abide by our obligations under the Charter of the United Nations to provide the necessary funds for its proper functioning, even though a restructuring of the current scale of assessed contributions could be considered. We believe that if the United Nations is considered as a train of peace and development on these two tracks, humankind will embrace our Organization, which will help us to move forward into the twenty-first century. On the eve of the new millennium, it is imperative for the international community to seek solutions to pressing problems, of which abject poverty may well be the most compelling. The solemn commitments of the World Summit for Social Development and the launching of 1996 as the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty and the period 1997-2006 as the United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty have our full support. There is evidence the world over that continuing poverty, if not addressed adequately, will result in social disharmony and in economic and political disorder, and will become a threat to national and international peace and stability, thereby negatively affecting the growth and consolidation of democracy and human rights. Let it be understood that all efforts to combat the scourge of illicit drug trafficking, terrorism and organized crime will prove to be fruitless unless we present a united front to eradicate poverty. Suriname has drawn unexpected international attention by its resolve to employ its timber resources for the development of its people. My Government is aware of the concern of the international community as to the possible consequences of an unsustainable use of our forest. There are many examples throughout the world on how we should not proceed, and we have learned from those experiences. In order to strike a proper balance between our actual needs for development and the needs of future generations, the Government of Suriname will abide by the commitment expressed through its contribution at the Rio Conference in 1992 and to the subsequent investigations and deliberations at various levels of society in conjunction with foreign investors. In all these endeavours we will continue to be cautious, with due regard for the interests of potential investors, the interests of our indigenous people and the need to protect the interests of future generations. We hope that the international community will also abide by its obligation to provide the necessary technological and financial assistance, thus contributing to 6 the achievement of these goals. In this respect we look forward to the coming review meeting on the implementation of Agenda 21. The Government of the Republic of Suriname is very concerned about the problem of illicit drug trafficking, because it poses special security problems for countries such as Suriname, which have insufficient resources to guard its hundreds of miles of shoreline and vast, underpopulated land areas. Therefore, as part of our policy of maximum cooperation in the fight against drugs, we have entered into cooperation agreements with many countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, especially with those States adjacent to Suriname. In this context, I should like to mention the recently established and much appreciated cooperation between Surinamese police authorities and the drug enforcement agencies of the Government of the United States of America. However, finding an adequate solution to the drug problem will depend in no small measure on whether equal attention is given to both the supply and the demand sides of this phenomenon. While reflecting on the issues facing our world and amidst the many challenges to creating global solidarity, my Government wishes to express its serious concerns over the developments in the Middle East, which have resulted in a virtual discontinuation of the historic peace process. We hope that the parties concerned and the international community will succeed in bringing the peace process back on track. The agony of bloodshed and the loss of lives must be avoided, and there are no alternatives to dialogue and peace. I am deeply honoured to have had the opportunity to address this body on a number of issues that are of prime importance to the Government and the people of the Republic of Suriname. I would like to conclude by reiterating our commitment to contribute to the creation of a new world order characterized by the eradication of poverty and based on a more just distribution of wealth and on an atmosphere that augurs well for peace and global improvement of the quality of life on this beautiful planet.   ﻿Last year we took stock of half a century of United Nations history. The rock we are pushing up the hill like Sisyphus always seems to roll back a little. We must not be discouraged by this. It remains our responsibility to do what we solemnly reaffirmed on the fiftieth anniversary of the world Organization: maintain peace and to help people who are suffering from want and poverty. You, Mr. President, have issued a warning to us all for this fifty-first General Assembly. We must look beyond our national borders, and think and act accordingly. After making those anniversary promises, let us not fall back into the old routine and rituals. The vision of a more peaceful and more equitable world must not be lost. The world Organization must continue to be the world’s conscience. For who else other than this forum is to keep watch to prevent murder and torture, to ensure that refugees have the basic necessities of life and that our children are protected and cared for? The world is grossly unjust. From the moment of birth millions of people have hardly any chance of living in conditions worthy of humankind. No one can turn away from this; it concerns us all. No country, no region and no group of States can bear all of the world’s burdens and troubles alone. All, even the strongest among us, need solidarity, need the help of others. How can terrorism, for instance, a cancer of our time, be stopped without international cooperation? Developments over the past 10 years have shown there is no cause for resignation. There can be progress — provided we pool our resources and act together. That is the lesson of Bosnia, of South Africa and of the Middle East, and of the historic achievements in the field of disarmament in recent years. Every child that is saved from death in Rwanda or Burundi, every refugee able to return to his native village in Bosnia, every rainforest area we can preserve, must strengthen our hope. The one world requires us to act as one. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, a free election has been held for the first time after four terrible years of war. It has provided a crucial foundation for the country’s recovery. Joint institutions must now be created without delay. The future members of the three-person presidency should meet in Sarajevo before the end of September. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) had a very difficult task supervising the election in Bosnia. That organization’s scope for action must be increased at the Lisbon Summit in December this year. The OSCE remains an indispensable pillar of the new peaceful order for Europe, which we believe to be necessary now that the iron curtain has come down. The forces working for peace in the region are themselves not strong enough; there is still no self- sustaining stability. In Bosnia and Herzegovina there can be no permanent international police force — even the 60,000 troops of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), of the United Nations and of all the other countries cannot guarantee peace on the ground — but I think that for a limited time that country continues to require a “fire brigade”. This presupposes a fresh mandate from the Security Council. Germany is willing to provide a military contribution. By admitting more than 320,000 war refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Germany has practised human solidarity. We also have more than 130,000 Yugoslav nationals, most of them from Kosovo, who have to return to their native regions. This is a heavy burden for us, including in financial terms. But we gave 7 temporary protection and shelter to these people on humanitarian grounds, and we will not be found wanting in this respect now that their repatriation is becoming possible. Europe has been torn by fratricidal wars for centuries. The current peaceful unification of that continent is a message of hope for the whole world. The first of our central and eastern European neighbours will soon belong to the Euro-Atlantic institutions. My country Germany owes its unity to the confidence which the world placed in our policy of reconciliation and good neighbourliness. In our eyes that implies a duty: together with France, we will remain the motor of European Union. Addressing the Assembly in 1989, my predecessor Hans-Dietrich Genscher extended a hand to Poland. Today I turn to our Czech neighbours in particular and say that the German-Czech declaration will be adopted shortly. Czechs and Germans can look confidently to a common European future. The Russian people too must be winners in the process of European unification. The special partnership which NATO is seeking with Russia is of central importance for peace and security in Europe. And that is why we want as quickly as possible to draft the fundamentals of a charter between NATO and Russia, as I suggested in Carcassonne 18 months ago at a meeting of the European Union foreign ministers. Our offer stands. Russia should help shape Europe’s future as an equal partner. That large and important country must be given a place in Europe commensurate with its size and importance. Part of the European Union’s peace message is that we Europeans stand for a policy of international cooperation among equals, and for a global partnership for development and the environment in the twenty-first century. New opportunities for such a partnership derive from the globalization of industry and technology. Never have so many people experienced so much progress as in the past 10 years. In the year 2020, if the present trend continues, the 15 countries with the largest gross national products will include nine of today’s developing countries. The recipe is free markets, democracy, reliability of the judicial system, and integration into the global economy. This kind of good governance was rewarded with $150 billion of private direct investment in 1995. However, 90 per cent of that investment has gone to only 12 countries, and the gap between the poor and the rest of the world continues to widen. The World Summit for Social Development put the number of poor people at 1.3 billion, nearly a quarter of the entire human race. This calls for action from both sides, help from the community of nations and self-help on the part of the countries concerned. The one is the precondition for the other. This evening I am having another meeting with my African colleagues. I take a very keen interest in the future of Europe’s vast neighbouring continent. We should not see only Africa’s negative side but the hopeful signs as well, and there are such signs. Democratization is progressing, as shown by the fact that elections have taken place or are scheduled in 17 countries this year. Average economic growth has outpaced population growth for the first time in many years. Life expectancy has increased by more than 25 per cent since 1960, and ever more children are going to school. Germany supports Africa’s integration into the world economy and the development of its own capabilities. The United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s is a sound foundation for these efforts. The Secretary-General’s United Nations System- wide Initiative on Africa should likewise be used by all concerned as a basis for joint action. However, much remains to be done. The ghastly events in Rwanda must not be repeated in Burundi. On the other hand, the United Nations should not be the organization of first resort in every conflict situation. It cannot solve every problem. Hence, the regional organizations must assume a larger measure of responsibility. The Organization of African Unity, like the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, has matured to a degree that commands respect. Germany, with one eye on Burundi, has to date provided one million deutsche mark in support of that organization’s conflict prevention mechanism. High hopes have been placed in the efforts of Julius Nyerere. The proposed conference on the Great Lakes region has the support of Germany and the European Union. Germany will remain a good partner and friend to the nations of Africa. That will also be my message at the forthcoming second European Union-Southern African Development Community (SADC) ministerial meeting in Windhoek. The regionalization process in Africa is an 8 element of hope. The outstanding example is southern Africa with the SADC. That region must become a locomotive for the whole continent. One neighbouring region whose fate touches Europe is the Middle East. That is also the main reason for our strong commitment in the whole Middle East region. For historical reasons, Germany has a special relationship with Israel; that remains unshakable. Bilaterally and through the European Union we are the most important donor for the Palestinians. Germany will maintain that commitment. I confirmed this in my recent meetings with Israeli Foreign Minister Levy and with President Yasser Arafat in Bonn. Terrorists should not be given any chance to block the path to peace. The sealing off of Gaza and the West Bank must be eased and discontinued as soon as possible. That is our common endeavour. The struggle against terrorism must remain at the top of the international agenda. I urgently appeal to all concerned to resume the peace process without delay. There is no alternative. It has been estimated that the world’s population will number about 10 billion in 2030. For their sake, for the sake of our children and grandchildren, we must take steps today to ensure that the Earth remains habitable. Peace and human dignity, economic progress and protection of the natural foundations of life are inseparable. Without social justice, without any vision for the world’s economic progress, we shall not be able to break the vicious circle of poverty, environmental destruction and population explosion. We have no time to lose. Every second three babies are born, and every year the world’s population increases by nearly 100 million. All of them need food, clothing, schools and a home. Every minute about 12 acres of tropical rain forest are lost, an area the size of 40 football pitches. Antoine de Saint-Exupéry warned that the human race had not inherited the Earth from its fathers but had borrowed it from its children. We became acutely aware of this at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. North and South, East and West, are struggling to survive together in spaceship Earth, whose blue protective shield is becoming increasingly fragile. Our task now is to convert that environmental awareness into environmental action. The year 1997 will be crucial for such action. The special session of the General Assembly devoted to environment and development must chart the course for the next millennium in order to restore the balance between man, nature and the economy. Germany’s industrial community has voluntarily undertaken to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by 20 per cent by the year 2005. Since 1990, Germany has reduced those emissions by nearly 13 per cent and thereby has led the way for the rest of the world. We are contributing 312 million deutsche mark to the pilot programme to protect Brazil’s tropical forests. That represents 60 per cent of the total contributions made so far. We appeal to the community of nations to become more heavily involved in this programme. We can only succeed together or fail together. At the 1997 climate conference in Japan we must achieve the objective agreed upon in Berlin 12 months ago: the adoption of a substantive and binding protocol to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At the recent Geneva conference, the great majority of nations came out in favour of specific targets and time limits. This is encouraging. I wish to thank all members once again for supporting our efforts to have the secretariat of the Framework Convention on Climate Change established in Bonn. May I also ask members to support our proposal that the secretariat of the Framework Convention to Combat Desertification likewise be located in Bonn, as it has to cooperate closely with the climate secretariat. The United Nations will find that living and working conditions in our country are good. The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development rightly makes people the focal point of all efforts. We must continue to concentrate on combating poverty and providing basic and vocational education. Even if that is not the kind of subject that makes headlines, it is and will remain, together with peacekeeping, one of our principal tasks. Equal opportunities for women must not remain mere theory. Nothing is more powerful than an idea whose time has come, is a saying that applies to human dignity and human rights. The fall of the Berlin Wall showed that the people’s pursuit of freedom and personal happiness is, in the long run, stronger than any dictatorship. That is why the worldwide defence of human rights will likewise not be in vain. It all boils down to something quite natural: that we treat one another as humans and that we do not inflict upon others what we would not like to have inflicted upon ourselves. Murderers and torturers must not be allowed to sleep peacefully. Mladic´ and Karadzic´, and all for whom arrest warrants have been issued, deserve to be brought before the International Tribunal in The Hague. Germany calls for the early convening of a conference to establish an international criminal court. There is a core of human rights that are common to us all and that are universally valid. This fact received international confirmation at the Vienna Conference on Human Rights. There can and should be no withdrawal from that position. With the East-West confrontation now consigned to the past, intercultural dialogue assumes ever-greater significance. Close to 2.5 million Muslims are living in Germany. If only for this reason, it is of special importance to develop greater mutual understanding between Christianity and Islam. A subject very close to my heart, as former Minister of Justice, is the protection of our children, the weakest members of society. Universal Children’s Day was observed on 20 September. Its motto: “Children have rights”. What do those rights look like in reality? Every day 35,000 children die of hunger. Twelve million children do not live beyond the age of 5. Two million are forced into prostitution. Two hundred thousand children around the world are used as soldiers in war. Millions of them are used as cheap labour. The Stockholm conference on sexual abuse of children has awakened world opinion, and I should like to thank the Swedish Government for having hosted and organized this conference, which shocked us all into action. The atrocious way many of our children are being treated is a disgrace — a disgrace — to our civilization. The Stockholm Plan of Action must be followed by global action. This we owe to our children. And I should like to make it very clear that anyone who violates the weakest members of society — children, that is — deserves to be outlawed by society. Peace is not everything, but without peace everything is nothing. These words originate from the time when East and West faced each other armed to the teeth. In the meantime the nightmare of a nuclear inferno has been dispelled. Yesterday’s signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty was another momentous step in this process, I believe, after half a century of international debate and protest against nuclear testing. In expressing my thanks to Australia I appeal to all nations to ratify the Treaty as soon as possible. Since the end of the Second World War upwards of 2,000 nuclear tests have been carried out. We now have the chance to put a stop to them once and for all. Anyone who rejects something good because they will only accept something perfect should be mindful of their responsibility to future generations. We cannot force the atomic genie back into the bottle, but we owe it to our children and grandchildren to tame it — at least to tame it. The total abolition of all chemical weapons is of similar consequence. The Chemical Weapons Convention must enter into force next spring. All nations, and especially those with the largest stockpiles of such weapons, must meet their tremendous responsibility and ratify the Convention as soon as possible. I should also like to touch upon an issue that I take a very personal, keen interest in, and that is a totally different kind of mass-destruction weapon: anti-personnel mines. I travelled to Mozambique and Cambodia and took a look at the situation there. Hundreds of millions of such anti-personnel mines are still in the ground. Year in, year out they kill and maim 20,000 people and make entire regions permanently uninhabitable. These treacherous tools of murder must be banned. Germany has completely renounced anti-personnel mines and imposed a unilateral, open-ended ban on exports. Residual stocks are to be destroyed by the end of 1997. In my Seven-Point Programme of Action I have proposed a number of measures to maintain the momentum generated in Geneva. My main objective — because I think the motto should be “first things first” — is to improve the efficiency of mine clearance. We will attend a conference in Canada very soon which deals with the political aspects of this issue, trying to ban land- mines. But we should also at the same time try to concentrate on improving the efficiency of mine clearance, that is, testing and using mechanical clearance equipment. We quickly need machinery that can be mass- produced in order to remove this plague without harming people. I do not know whether anyone here has watched a mine-clearance operation. It is done by people and can be compared to trying to remove a sand-dune with a spoon. I think it is incredible that highly developed 10 nations such as ours and many others are not able to produce a piece of machinery for a large-scale de-mining operation. I want to focus the technical knowledge that we have to make this matter progress as quickly as possible. If we want to win peace, we must not only consider conflict prevention; we must also pay greater attention to the situation after the termination of military hostilities. Peace-building was the subject of the international conference that we sponsored in Berlin in July. That conference produced a number of interesting and tangible results, which we are making available to all Member States in the form of a report. Together with other countries we intend to submit to members during this session of the General Assembly a draft resolution on peace consolidation through practical steps towards disarmament. Whether in Bosnia, Rwanda or Angola, all previous efforts will prove in vain unless we can prevent a resurgence of violence. Most of the burden is borne by the 26,000 or so Blue Helmets and civilian personnel making up the peacekeeping missions, as well as by the countless courageous staff of non-governmental organizations who are doing their job all over the world under difficult conditions. Speaking here in the United Nations, I should like to express my sincere thanks to the non-governmental organizations. We are proud of them. In our resolution marking the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we solemnly undertook to pass on to the next millennium a United Nations organization equipped and financed to perform its tasks. The greatest political significance attaches to reform of the Security Council, in whose work we have been closely involved over the last two years. This, the principal guardian of world peace, still bears the countenance of the year 1945, but it now needs a new one for the year 2000. It is a question of enhancing that body’s legitimacy, credibility and effectiveness. After a three-year debate the time has come to put the various elements together and start the restructuring process, to now get things done after having analysed what can be done. We are pleased that a large number of Member States are in favour of a permanent seat for Germany on the Security Council. I really believe that the time is approaching when the General Assembly will have to decide. What continues to require our immediate attention is the financial crisis. The Organization’s rationalization and reform are indispensable and urgent. A glance at the books is enough to tell us that. The regular United Nations budget shows zero growth. The Secretariat has lost more than 1,000 posts, and further reductions will follow next year. So much has already been achieved. I therefore take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General and his staff, who, both at headquarters and in the field, continue to achieve outstanding results despite the reductions in their numbers and the constant lack of funds. I should like to thank them very warmly. I wish to add another word if I may. The United Nations, in its actions and decisions, can be only as strong as its Members allow it to be. People tend to overlook that fact so readily when they criticize this Organization. I stress this point because I think that the outside world has a distorted image of the United Nations. The United Nations is us, the Member States. We can only achieve what we want to achieve together. I am afraid that I must repeat that we will have to save and rationalize further still. The need for reform is no justification for refusing to pay contributions, however. Moreover, special rights also imply special duties. The German-American philosopher Hans Jonas said that responsibility is the most important principle of the new age. Let us act in accordance with that principle. ﻿First of all, I should like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I wish to assure you the full cooperation of my delegation in the discharge of this heavy responsibility entrusted to you. I 10 should like also to take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Freitas do Amaral, for the able manner in which he fulfilled his responsibilities. Last year we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and reiterated our dedication to the purposes and principles of the Organization, for the promotion of which it was established. That occasion also afforded us the opportunity to take stock of United Nations achievements and of its yet-unfinished business, as well as of the continuing challenges faced by both the Organization and the international community at large. That stock-taking exercise could not have led us to underestimate, let alone belittle, what has been achieved by the United Nations. In any case, in so far as the United Nations is our universal Organization, its failings can only be our failings, as its successes are also ours. None the less, last year’s stock-taking of the performance of the 50-year- old United Nations must have underlined more than anything else how complex and daunting the challenges faced by the Organization and by the international community are becoming. There are probably no greater challenges before the international community in this regard than those of development and of peace and stability — two concerns that define the very essence of the United Nations and that constitute the core purposes and objectives of the Organization. It is not yet a distant memory that we all rejoiced at the end of the cold war, believing that it would open up new vistas of opportunity for addressing the vital issues of international concern that had been overshadowed for decades by the arms race, East-West rivalry and other manifestations of the cold-war era. That positive development — the end of the cold war — also encouraged many in the developing world, especially those of us in Africa, to undertake far-reaching political and economic reform measures, with a view to laying the foundation for democratic transformation and meaningful economic growth and development. Despite all these manifested hopes and courageous moves towards economic reform and democracy, the situation on the African continent remains a source of great concern. At present, Africa is the only continent where the level of poverty is increasing dramatically. Needless to say, this trend could lead to unimaginable consequences unless it is arrested and reversed as speedily as possible. Thus, Africa’s genuine fear is that the opportunity created by the end of the cold war will disappear and that a historic chance will be squandered forever. It is by no means accidental that, of all the regions of the world, Africa is the most affected by conflicts and lack of stability. Conflicts in our continent have not only been greater in number, but have also proved to be more intractable and, more often than not, more deadly and more destructive, in terms of both human lives and property. It may not always be plausible to suggest that all conflicts in Africa have their roots in economic difficulties only. But, whatever the constellation of factors immediately responsible for specific conflict situations in Africa, the fact remains that in most instances civil strife and conflicts in the continent have emerged within the context of deteriorating economic situations. In this context, the only durable solution for the political crisis in Africa can be found in the economic regeneration and development of the continent. Development is therefore the only reliable preventive means to ensure and maintain peace and stability in Africa. The development of Africa will continue to be a distant dream unless the known obstacles are removed, among which the debt burden continues to be the major impediment. In this context, we are encouraged by the recent Lyon summit of the Group of Seven, which we were hopeful would go beyond the Naples terms in easing the debt overhang for countries such as Ethiopia. We also hope that some progress will be made during the upcoming annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in connection with multilateral debt. For countries like my own, this is very crucial indeed. While durable solutions to conflicts and to the lack of peace and stability in Africa or anywhere else can hardly be achieved within the context of economic dislocation and economic decline, it is also equally true that development requires peace and stability. This is the vicious circle we find ourselves in, which makes it difficult to find speedy resolution of the very many conflict situations that have led to unspeakable human suffering, and on some occasions to genocide, in Africa. In Somalia, where peace and national reconciliation have eluded the people for close to six years, we are still far from making any headway in reversing the situation. Efforts are, however, still continuing to help bring about national reconciliation in Somalia, and my own Prime Minister has continued to attach the highest importance to this endeavour. In all these efforts, the role of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) has been vital; whether it is in Liberia, Burundi, Somalia or other conflict situations in Africa, the important contribution that the OAU Secretary-General has been making is a source of great satisfaction to us. The Organization of African Unity has indeed upgraded its capacity for conflict resolution in our continent since the establishment in 1993 of the OAU Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. I wish to seize this opportunity to express appreciation to all those who have continued to help ensure that the OAU’s role in this area is strengthened and enhanced. Conflict situations, whether in Africa or elsewhere, have negative consequences not only for the countries directly affected but also for their neighbours and their regions. The situation in Somalia has not been an exception to this. The absence of central authority for an extended period of time in that country has been seen to provide opportunity for extra-regional elements bent on exporting terror and on experimenting with plans designed to create instability and chaos in our region. It is therefore in my country’s direct national interest that peace be established and national reconciliation achieved in Somalia as speedily as possible. This is also in the interest of our region in general. Our region, which has had a prolonged period of instability and which has also recently experienced State-sponsored terrorism, cannot afford and should not be expected to tolerate the proliferation and the establishment of centres of international terrorism by multinational elements in our midst. The spread of terrorism is not a danger merely to our region, but to the international community as a whole. Ethiopia’s conscience is clear in this regard because it has done its level best to fulfil its responsibilities in the fight against terrorism, and it will always remain committed to combating this evil. At present, the most worrying conflict, with the potential for a level of human slaughter which we all dread to see, is the one in Burundi. The parties to the conflict in Burundi have the responsibility to save their society from decimation through accommodation based on principles that suit the specific conditions of their country. Others with a much more complex societal mix have managed to put in place democratic mechanisms to reconcile the right of the majority to govern with sufficient guarantees for the security and dignity of the minority. This is what ex-President Mwalimu Nyerere has been striving to assist the Burundi parties to achieve through the Mwanza peace process, a process which enjoys the full support of the United Nations and of the international community. I wish to take this opportunity to express appreciation for the resolve and unity that the countries of the region have demonstrated in an effort to see to it that disaster is averted in Burundi and that the country achieves national reconciliation. I wish also to express appreciation to all those who have continued to support the Mwanza process and the initiative that was taken by the countries of the region on 31 July 1996. My country, which emerged from a very difficult period of conflicts and severe economic hardships only five years ago, has made major strides on all fronts during this brief period of time. We draw immense satisfaction from the fact that our people have finally achieved durable peace and stability. Moreover, our economic reform programmes have started to bear fruit; we are encouraged by the results achieved, particularly in agricultural production, over the past few years. That Ethiopia now has the capacity not only to feed itself, but also to be an exporter of food grains, is increasingly becoming a reality. Ethiopia is striving to enhance its capacity to become a useful and effective partner in international economic cooperation. We intend to make our country an attractive place for investment; all the necessary foundations have already been laid by my Government to this end. We are determined to make trade and investment the major pillars of our economic cooperation with others. Ethiopia has also endeavoured to contribute its share to regional and international peace and stability over the past few years. That is a policy that we intend to expand further with a view to fulfilling our regional and international commitments, no matter how small our contribution might be. Ethiopia welcomes the recent adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty by the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We believe that it represents an important step towards the attainment of the larger objectives of nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament. As a founding Member of the United Nations, Ethiopia attaches the highest importance to the work of the United Nations and wishes to see the Organization revitalized and strengthened. In this context, Ethiopia, like 12 many other countries, is convinced that the future of the United Nations lies in its democratization and in the creation of conditions under which all Member States, big or small, will feel that the Organization belongs equally to all of them. With respect to developments in Africa, in the area of conflict prevention and in other areas, my Government is keen to see more effective cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity. No doubt, much work needs to be done in this area, and we are confident that the mechanism for consultation already in place between the two organizations will be utilized more effectively and with a far greater sense of purpose and consistency. I wish to take this opportunity to express my Government’s appreciation to the Secretary-General for his very useful and timely initiative on the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa. The Special Initiative is complementary to the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, and, through the reallocation of existing resources and the mobilization of additional ones, will contribute to the development of Africa. We hope that the Special Initiative will be implemented as planned and that it will not, like previous initiatives, remain unfulfilled and be another source of frustration and an empty promise. We believe that the United Nations can do more to promote effectively the purposes and principles enshrined in its Charter and to galvanize international cooperation to achieve peace and development. Our world cannot afford to see the international community divided in two, with one half remaining poor and becoming even poorer. The imperatives of interdependence dictate that this trend be reversed, especially when all that those who are lagging behind demand is the removal of the obstacles to development and an opportunity to address their economic problems on the basis of their own efforts. Ethiopia is confident that the United Nations will play an increasingly dynamic role, so that all the nations and peoples of the world will have an equal stake in the preservation of global civilization and in enriching human society.  ﻿Permit me to express on behalf of my country, Liberia, our sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly. It is our expectation that your tenure will be marked by the same distinction that has characterized your service to your country, Malaysia. I express our sincere appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for efficiently conducting the proceedings of the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I also wish to congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his continuing dedication to the cause of world peace and social justice, which has provided the United Nations an opportunity to enhance the dignity of all mankind in spite of the odds that continue to frustrate our common aspirations and our efforts to build a better world. Liberia bears its share of responsibility for finding solutions to the problems of our one world through this Organization. Regrettably, the situation in Liberia has not afforded us the opportunity to participate as actively as might be expected. It is an honour and privilege for me to stand before this world body as Africa’s first female Head of Government. However, it is sad to note that I have assumed this leadership at a time when my country, Liberia, is experiencing a tragic and senseless war. The Liberian civil war, which began more than six years ago, has unleashed one of the worst man-made disasters in recent memory. It has claimed over 250,000 lives — about 15 per cent of the population; forced over 800,000 Liberians to seek refuge in neighbouring countries; and left several hundred thousand others internally displaced. Regrettably, the most vulnerable groups — women, children and the elderly — continue to be victimized by the ravages of disease, hunger and malnutrition, which are commonplace under such conditions. The wanton killing of civilians and the destruction of basic infrastructure, which intensified in April of this year, continue to retard economic activities and deprive the people of their fundamental human rights. The painful reality of our child soldiers, child labourers and abandoned children in the country point to the formidable task that lies ahead as we seek to rehabilitate them into productive citizens. The displacement of large segments of the rural population has curtailed agricultural production. Before the war, agriculture accounted for 38 per cent of the gross domestic product and 75 per cent of total employment. As a result of continued hostilities, other potentially high economic sectors such as rubber, timber, iron ore and minerals remain inaccessible. Since 1990, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) has deployed a peacekeeping force in Liberia, in keeping with Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations. It had been hoped that this initiative, the first by a subregion, would receive the full support of the United Nations. Unfortunately, the assistance of the international community has been both slow and inadequate, thereby imposing severe pressure on the scarce resources of the member States of ECOWAS. While ECOWAS, in the spirit of African brotherhood and solidarity, has taken the initiative in Liberia, its efforts must be complemented by the international community through the provision of substantial material and financial support to facilitate the implementation of the peace process in the country. It is therefore my appeal that the United Nations assume its share of the burden of peacekeeping in Liberia. The subregion is facing extreme economic hardships due to external factors beyond its control. After the failure of several peace agreements, the member States of ECOWAS convened a meeting in Abuja, the Federal Republic of Nigeria, in August 1995. At that meeting, a decision was taken to include for the first time the leaders of the three major warring factions in a six-man Council of State. Accordingly, a ceasefire was implemented, and Monrovia was maintained as a safe haven. The members of the Council of State were inducted into office on 1 September 1995. 7 In April of this year, the resumption of fighting, with the accompanying carnage and illegal seizure and destruction of property, dealt another set-back to the peace process. At this juncture, I extend the profound regrets of the Liberian Government and people to the international, intergovernmental, non-governmental and other organizations that sustained losses as a result of the April fighting. I pledge that our Administration will do all that lies within its power to prevent the reoccurrence of such lawlessness. The events of April enabled the leaders of the subregion to identify deficiencies in the Agreement and to take measures to prevent the reoccurrence of such breakdown in the implementation of the peace accord. Although they reaffirmed the Abuja Agreement as the best framework for finding a lasting solution to the Liberian conflict, they nevertheless resolved that a change was necessary in the leadership to restore confidence and enhance its performance. The parties unanimously selected me to lead Liberia from a devastating war to conditions of peace. The selection of a woman is a decision that deserves commendation; for it is a major victory and a recognition of the active involvement of Liberian women in the peace process. The resolution of the Liberian conflict is therefore a challenge not only to me but also to all Liberian women and to the women of Africa and the world, whose advice and continuing support I deeply appreciate. Our leadership is challenged with the difficult task of pursuing national reconciliation, national reunification, repatriation and resettlement of refugees and internally displaced persons, and the creation of an enabling environment for the holding of free and fair democratic elections by May 1997. Additionally, and more demanding, we must ensure the successful disarmament of combatants and their demobilization and reintegration into civil society. This task requires us, as a matter of urgency, to first disarm our children and redirect their lives. We also have to address the immense suffering that the war has inflicted on our people. We must establish an independent elections commission to conduct free and fair elections under international supervision. I am confident that, with the support of the United Nations and the international community, the tasks ahead will be achieved. All of the parties to the conflict have pledged to me their commitment to the implementation of the revised schedule. Despite some signs of retrogression, our timely intervention and appeals have been heeded, thus averting the derailment of the process. We are aware that our efforts to maintain the ceasefire must be sustained at every stage of the peace process by timely intervention and insistence that the terms and conditions of the peace agreement must be respected by the parties. There is a renewed hope for peace in Liberia as a result of the decisions taken at the last Abuja summit. The failure over the past six years to achieve peace in the country made it imperative that long overdue measures be taken to ensure the final and successful implementation of the Abuja Agreement. First, due care and consideration was given to the selection of the Head of Government, with the view of ensuring effective leadership and a sense of purpose. Secondly, provision was made for the regular monitoring and assessment of the implementation of the peace Agreement. This responsibility was assigned to the special representative of the Chairman of ECOWAS and the ECOWAS Committee of Nine on Liberia. Thirdly, ECOWAS member States agreed to impose sanctions on any person or group of persons obstructing the implementation of the peace Agreement. These necessary measures will equally require the support of the international community. The Government and people of Liberia share the conviction of the member States of ECOWAS, as well as the international community, that the Abuja peace Agreement provides the best framework for the resolution of the Liberian conflict. As Chairman of the Council of State, I reaffirm my total commitment to the full implementation of the ECOWAS peace plan for Liberia. We owe a debt of gratitude to the Government and people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as well as to other member States of ECOWAS, for their untiring efforts and sacrifices in the quest for peace in Liberia. We also extend our gratitude to the Governments of the United States of America, the Netherlands and Germany for their recent assistance to the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG). We thank other friendly nations that have made, and continue to make, contributions to the resolution of the Liberian conflict. The Liberian Government appeals for assistance to enable the deployment of additional troops to sustain the new focus on disarmament and demobilization as well as ensure thereafter the rehabilitation and reconstruction of our war-torn country. 8 In order to facilitate the rehabilitation of these children, we appeal to friendly Governments to help us rebuild our educational institutions, especially those providing vocational and technical training. As a caring mother, I urgently need to rehabilitate and grant relief to these children. It is one of my principal concerns. In this regard, I express appreciation to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for their assistance. It is my hope that all mothers and all humanitarian, governmental and non-governmental organizations will support this worthy undertaking. The Liberian children, indeed the children of our world, are our future. As regards the international situation, while we will continue to accord priority to the civil war in Liberia until genuine peace is restored, we have not lost sight of other important issues that are of vital concern to the international community. It is encouraging to note that since the end of the cold war, Member States have increasingly taken measures in support of general and complete disarmament, including nuclear weapons. The establishment of zones of peace in most regions of the world and the recent adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which my Government has already signed, are positive developments in the field of disarmament. It is hoped that further progress will be made in the total elimination of nuclear weapons within a given time-frame. Liberia, which is emerging from conditions of war, is concerned about the unrestricted use of conventional weapons, including anti-personnel landmines. The international community must also focus its attention on conventional disarmament, since these deadly weapons are usually resorted to in most conflicts. Internal strife in several countries resulting from ethnic, religious and racial differences continues to cause death and destruction in Angola, Burundi, Rwanda, Somalia, the former Yugoslavia, Afghanistan and my own country. In order to spare the lives of innocent civilians, we appeal to all parties to enter into dialogue and seek a political settlement of their differences. As we move towards the twenty-first century, we are encouraged by the growing concern about the persistently slow and unbalanced growth of the world economy. We have experienced the direct impact of the uneven distribution of resources both among and within nations. The crisis in Liberia today is an expression of this unevenness, which has a direct relationship to poverty and instability. It is worth mentioning that in every attempt at finding a solution, such issues as the debt crisis and the decline in official development assistance continue to hamper our efforts to bring about the required reform in favour of the development of our people. This situation continues to undermine development in many regions of the world, especially Africa. Today, Africa remains the only continent where the level of poverty is causing increasing hardship and despair, despite the courageous efforts by many countries to undertake reforms. Regrettably, programmes proposed by the international community have yet to receive adequate donor assistance to move Africa’s development forward. We recall the priority programme for Africa’s economic recovery and other measures to address the critical situation facing the continent. It is in this light that I commend the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa launched earlier this year. The initiative requires commitments amounting to $25 billion over a period of 10 years, to be realized through the reallocation of existing resources, and complements the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. We therefore plead with the United Nations and its agencies, international financial institutions and bilateral donors to re-examine their attitudes towards Africa’s development aspirations. We hope that a solution will be found to the extreme burden that debt now imposes on all countries, but especially on those coming out of crisis. In spite of the difficulties facing Liberia, it has continued to consider the role of women as crucial to the development process by advocating an improved status for women. Liberia has supported the decisions emanating from conferences on the advancement of women, particularly the Beijing Conference held in 1995. My presence here today as Chairman of the Council of State is a testimony to Liberia’s support for its women and for the rights of women everywhere. I take this opportunity to say that it would be advantageous to all Member States of this Organization if we, as world leaders, committed ourselves to a policy of mutual respect for one another and for our respective peoples and their legitimate aspirations in life. I am convinced that prospects for a peaceful world will be 9 made greater if we summon the courage to equitably share without restraints the material and technological resources that represent our common inheritance on earth. Once those considerations become our cherished preoccupation and the noble focus of our collective undertakings, the world will enjoy a better future: a future that will know no bounds for the collective happiness of mankind; a future that will be devoid of terrorism and war; and a future that will not occasion famine, starvation and human degradation; a future without jealousy, hatred or envy. We can make tomorrow better or worse. The question is: which will it be? The United Nations system and the entire international community will be judged on the basis of their response to this important question.  ﻿Virtue constitutes the greatest form of human strength. Indeed, the very origin of the word “virtue” connotes manly strength — not merely physical strength, but moral strength. With respect to human interaction, it is a widely acknowledged truth that the greatest form of power arises when virtue is furnished with means. That is the concept that gave birth to the United Nations, inspired its noble deeds, and generally continues to inform its operations. Accordingly, our celebration last year of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations was quintessentially a collective expression of rejoicing in the wisdom embodied in that powerful truth, as well as an explicit, joint recommitment on the part of Member nations to act in accordance with the principle of empowerment of virtue, through the supply of appropriate means. In this context it is, for me, a great honour to be afforded the opportunity to address this very distinguished gathering of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. This event is easily the most important in the world calendar, as far as political deliberations are concerned. My delegation conveys to this Assembly the greetings of the Government and the people of Grenada, and congratulates His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail of Malaysia on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. We were particularly impressed with the way in which Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal conducted the affairs of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session, and take this opportunity to thank him for his handling of those proceedings. My delegation further expresses appreciation and thanks to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his vision and willingness to confront the many challenges that the Organization has recently been facing and, specifically for his dedication in seeking to solve world problems in the socio-economic and political spheres. This new session of the General Assembly is being held against the background of a continually changing global environment. That notwithstanding, there exists, on the one hand, a spirit of international cooperation and, on the other, a high degree of convergence of several ideals, such as the institution and strengthening of democracy, promoting and fostering economic integration and political harmony, and the pursuit and practice of a new multilateralism. Yet it must be expressly stated that the noble goal of achieving global democracy, peace and prosperity can be realized only with significant inputs from the developed countries acting in collaboration with the disadvantaged ones. Currently, many of the small developing countries that are Members of this Organization are faced with severe economic problems. It cannot be overemphasized that measures aimed at stabilizing their economies and creating the conditions for sustained growth and development have very painful effects on the populace. Nonetheless, these effects can be made more bearable, and it behoves us to point specifically to the human dimension in this regard. Since June 1995, the new Administration in Grenada has focused on strengthening our democratic institutions and on rebuilding our economy. My Government has been developing strategies, mechanisms and procedures to increase transparency and accountability in the conduct of Government. Moreover, my Government has pledged itself to respect the fundamental rights of all citizens as well as to other elements of civil society, such as a free press, freedom of expression, a fair and open democratic process, the supremacy under God of our Constitution and the effective functioning of the parliamentary system, for which our Constitution specifically and explicitly provides. Economically, our domestic policies are aimed primarily at encouraging individuals and businesses to maximize the return on their enterprise and efforts. We have embraced the notion that promoting micro- enterprises is one of the ways to accomplish this goal. Only recently, we initiated a micro-enterprise programme, with the provision of a modest sum to help young entrepreneurs in particular to embark upon their several ventures. We hope that the programme will succeed, thereby contributing to our overall economic development, both materially and psycho-culturally. Such preferential treatment is being given to the young so as to better fashion a culture of confidence, thoughtful creativity and purposeful enterprise. We are actively seeking also to enhance opportunities to enable our working population to attain higher standards of living. My Government has set itself specific goals including balanced and integrated sectoral growth, a relevant and adaptive education system, health for all, and strategic human resource planning and development. In 10 this latter respect, priority is being placed on the development of an adequately skilled and disciplined work force. While we are aware that the matter of economic and individual personal development is first and foremost a national responsibility, we are deeply conscious that our limited domestic resources constitute a severe constraint upon us in our quest to fulfil this obligation. Accordingly, we earnestly ask — indeed we urge — the many United Nations agencies involved in such activities, and also individual Governments, to continue to provide to us and to others in the same position the kind of help that is needed to meet satisfactorily growing demand for the spectrum of expertise vital to our national development. The grim realities of the very limited resources of very small countries are well known. Nonetheless, these realities have become more glaring in this era of trade liberalization and the globalization of production. Both of these phenomena, as conceived and elaborated by the developed countries, are startling reminders to us not only of our condition of institutionalized non-reciprocating dependence in a world that is becoming increasingly interdependent, but also of our vulnerability to economic marginalization. Thus, we are in no way, and to no degree, inhibited with regard to addressing inviting profound reflection on the issue of the special circumstances of small island developing States — particularly those in the Caribbean region, where prominent among the features characterizing our special circumstances is the ever-present vulnerability to natural disaster and the widespread devastation resulting therefrom. The need for official development assistance and the transfer of real resources from the North to the South has never been as pronounced as it is now. Indeed, such are the dimensions of that need in terms of both spread and intensity that the transfer of resources referred to here can be effected only on the basis of a concept of a new global order as was initially envisaged and expressed in principle by the President of Guyana, His Excellency Dr. Cheddi Jagan, and adopted by all the member States of the Caribbean Community. This, no doubt, has to be elaborated, and the countries of the North are especially requested to give disciplined and objective consideration to this matter. The conceptual requirements of the new global order include: a reconstructive change in interaction between North and South; a new basis for interaction; a new ethic for relating one to the other; and a genuine partnership, a partnership which eschews exploitation of any one people by another and seeks instead to pursue mutual upliftment of the peoples involved. More specifically, it is explicitly posited here that the developed countries should assist the less developed countries in respect of the following: first, the alleviation of the debt burden by one means or another; secondly, assistance for the development of centres for investment, the training of human resources, and training in how to make the economy more efficient, responsive and transparent; and thirdly, technical assistance to the smaller economies to help them make the transition towards incorporation and effective participation in a global economy that is so markedly characterized by so-called free trade. Smaller countries must not be excluded from processes which they cannot direct in their favour or, indeed, effectively influence so as to avoid experiencing the deleterious effects of those processes. Those are but a few of the tenets upon which the proffered concept of the new global order is based. It is common knowledge that bananas provide a livelihood for a significant percentage of the people of the Caribbean, and particularly the subregion of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States. Thus, the current challenge to our special arrangements for that fruit in Europe is, to say the least, uncaring, if not hostile. Grenada and several of the other States now being so affected have, on many issues, collaborated with and supported those very countries that are now quite unrelenting in their deliberate assault upon our preferential arrangement, which constitutes an assault on the well-being and the very livelihood of a significant proportion of our people. There should be no need whatsoever to remind the Assembly that there is a direct correlation between the premature destruction of our banana industry and the well-being and integrity of our democratic process and thus of our democracy itself. Substantial increases in crime and other social ills have been shown to induce commensurate increases in involvement in trading in, and the use of, illicit drugs. We certainly prefer to prevent the occurrence of such situations than to have to expend our energies and scarce resources on remedial action to contain and eradicate the now ever-present threat of an expanding narco-culture. It cannot be denied that, there are other, and more important, objectives to be achieved besides protecting the market economy. And this applies to all countries, the developed as well as the less developed. The time is now right for serious thrusts to be made towards the alleviation of the poverty and deprivation which are so widespread across the world, although most prevalent in the developing countries. This process must be activated immediately to ensure that economic progress is buttressed by social equity. Freedom from want; good health; genuine education; a clean environment; elimination of the scourge of illicit drugs, as well as of unemployment and underemployment; and the better and wider enjoyment of basic human rights: these are the goals we should unswervingly and constantly be seeking to reach. In this context, my Government is cognizant of its duties and responsibilities. We are convinced that through prudent management of our very limited resources, a willingness on the part of our people to work hard and, on our part, clear political leadership and virtuously inspired guidance — all enhanced by the support of friendly Governments and donor agencies — we shall, in due course, place our country on a sound path towards genuine growth. My delegation is happy to state in this regard that some improvement has already been made and that our Government looks forward to achieving in the not too distant future most of the goals we have set ourselves in order more effectively to pursue those other goals, which would significantly enhance the quality of our people’s lives. In the context of collective international efforts towards the achievement of some kind of sustainable development in the less developed countries, it is instructive to refer to the recently held Group of Seven summit in Lyon, France, where most of the efforts focused on the new global order. The leaders of the world’s most powerful nations agreed that in the present global economic situation it is absolutely necessary to control negative consequences and fight against the risks of exclusion, both at the national and international levels. Their communiqué, entitled “Globalization for the Benefit of All”, does seem to signal the stirrings of a new order for humankind. Grenada welcomes the discussion held on aid for development — particularly with officials from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank — and is heartened by the fact that in those discussions modalities were defined for a new partnership for development based on the sharing of responsibilities between developed countries, developing countries and multilateral organizations. The pledge by the G-7 countries to ensure substantial flows of public aid for development to the countries most in need is very timely and most welcome. Dare we of the South perceive this pronouncement by the G-7 to be not simply a pledge of honour but, further, an expression of subscription to the new global order, as enunciated by a visionary of the South, underscored now by a soulful shinning forth of virtue on the part of the North? My delegation sincerely hopes so. It is several years since any substantial change was made to the structure of one of the most important organs of this Organization. I refer to the Security Council. Meanwhile, the international political and economic environments have undergone some drastic and far- reaching transformations. Grenada strongly believes that in order to reflect the new geopolitical and economic realities of our world today, there are changes that are now due, particularly in the Security Council. Accordingly, my delegation expresses its unwavering support for the reforms currently being undertaken, as well as those now being contemplated with respect to the United Nations system. In July of this year, the European Union, through its Parliament, adopted a resolution to support the call for participation in international organizations by the Republic of China. The Government and people of Grenada consider this action on the part of the European Union to have been a most significant development. We welcome this development, and we applaud the European Union for it. Indeed, we are encouraged by that action, for the persistent plea of Grenada, constantly repeated over several years in every appropriate forum, has now been amplified into a clarion call for moral justice, in contrast to the expediency of power politics, economic advantage and legislative manipulation of yesteryear. The Republic of China has for many years consistently displayed its commitment to the values and principles of this body. Indeed, in the face of threats and undisguised acts of aggression, the courageous people of the Republic of China boldly chose to embark upon a path of freedom, justice, and respect for human rights, and recently took part in their presidential election, which was open, free and fair. 12 The economic achievements of this brave country of 21.3 million people are well and widely known. Thus, there can be no doubt as to the capability of the people of the Republic of China to make substantial contributions to the work of the United Nations. As to their willingness to make significant contributions, that also cannot be a matter of doubt. They have given testimony in this regard in several ways. They have established their good faith. They deserve the right to participate in the conferences and activities of the United Nations system. To continue to deny them this right would be to persist in denying them justice within the confraternity of nations. Superior power is found only where there is superior excellence of some kind, and the Republic of China has manifested a certain degree of superior power which derives from virtue rather than from physical strength. Thus, the Government and people of Grenada unequivocally exhort this Assembly to secure participation by the Republic of China in the agencies and activities of the United nations system. With every passing year, contemporary politics becomes more complex and, thus, commensurately complex are the related solutions. In this regard, my delegation especially applauds the efforts of the United Nations in attempting to maintain some degree of peace and security in various parts of the world. From Haiti to the war-torn Republics of the former Yugoslavia, to the famine-stricken cities of many an African State, the United Nations humanitarian activities and missions of peace are indeed worthy of special commendation. In this regard, I seize the opportunity now afforded me to express a father’s appreciation of and blessings upon my son Mark, who for some years has been and continues to be so engaged, and I ask your indulgence in this regard. Grenada is encouraged by the progress — albeit halting — made in the Middle East peace process and urges continued dialogue until the noble ideal of peaceful coexistence is achieved. But world peace and security will not be attained if those countries with nuclear capabilities continue to promulgate their use for military purposes. My delegation therefore welcomes efforts to institute a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing. Similarly, the practice of transporting hazardous radioactive materials, particularly through the Caribbean Sea, must be stopped immediately. The very surreptitiousness with which this business is conducted and transportation effected is indeed a tacit admission of wrongdoing. Caribbean humanness is violated in such transactions. In the name of humanity, therefore, the Government and the people of Grenada, without equivocation and without qualification, call for this practice to be stopped, and stopped now. It has been suggested by Max Ascoli that “civilization is a constant quest for non-violent means of solving conflicts — a common quest for peace.” Nonetheless, my Government perceives civilization as being more than simply a quest for peace, more than merely the shunning of visible violence. My Government sees civilization as the purposeful pursuit of peace through commitment to justice; the inherent equality of all men and women; and the inalienable rights which derive from simply being human. My Government subscribes to the principle of the overriding rule of moral law. In the context of violations of humanness, it behoves me to express, on behalf of my delegation, the deep concern of the Government and the people of Grenada in respect of the agonies which are currently being experienced by a significant number of persons in Cyprus. Grenada, like Cyprus, is an island nation, small, but sovereign. We therefore call for an end to the suffering to which so many of the families and individual persons of that beautiful country have been subjected. The smallness of a nation does not, to any degree whatever, negate the fundamental human rights of each of its citizens. The great Lebanese poet Khalil Gibran, in his Thoughts and Meditations, offered humanity the following insightful observation: “My soul preached to me and showed me that I am neither more than the pygmy, nor less than the giant. Ere my soul preached to me, I looked upon humanity as two men; one weak, whom I pitied, and the other strong, whom I followed or resisted in defiance. But now I have learned that I am as both are, and made from the same elements. My origin is their origin, my conscience is their conscience, my contention is their contention, and my pilgrimage is their pilgrimage.” My delegation is deeply convinced of the unsurpassable wisdom which these words of Khalil Gibran represent. The sentiment conveyed constitutes the sine qua non for the realization of international brotherhood. This we do believe. 13 Accordingly, my delegation earnestly urges that henceforth the quintessential sameness of all mankind and a genuine commitment to virtue should be adopted as the guiding principles of this Assembly. May God bless everyone participating in this fifty-first regular session of the Assembly, so that, so much the more effectively, the Assembly will be a transforming blessing to our world.  ﻿It is my honour to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the post of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. On behalf of the Ukrainian delegation, I would also like to express my appreciation to Mr. Freitas do Amaral, who presided so efficiently over the last session and encouraged an intensive exchange of opinions on the role of the United Nations in today’s world. A year ago, at the commemorative session of the General Assembly, our Organization received a substantial credit of trust as a universal international institution which, in the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, was called upon to “create new opportunities for peace, development, democracy and cooperation.” (resolution 50/6, third preambular para.) Today, we can assert that the United Nations has been and remains the key mechanism for maintaining and strengthening peace and security — and there is much proof of that. There is no doubt that the past year has been extremely important for arms control and disarmament. Tomorrow, 27 September, I will have the honour to sign, on behalf of Ukraine, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), as adopted in historic resolution 50/245. This important instrument calls for the de jure affirmation of the end of the nuclear-arms-race era. In signing this Treaty, Ukraine will make yet another contribution to disarmament, the importance of which cannot be overstated. In this context, I recall another historic event: the final withdrawal of strategic nuclear warheads from the territory of Ukraine. Having eliminated the world’s third- largest nuclear arsenal, which we had inherited, Ukraine became a nuclear-weapon-free State on 1 June 1996. In doing so, we believe that Ukraine made an unprecedented contribution, which has not yet received adequate recognition by the international community, to diminishing the global nuclear threat and thereby 9 demonstrated to the whole world its peaceful, consistent and reliable policy. Accordingly, we expect the nuclear States strictly to adhere to their commitments relating to the security assurances given to Ukraine by the United States of America, Russia, the United Kingdom, China and France in December 1994. Ukraine’s important role in the new European security architecture has been recognized recently in several international documents. For us, this means a special responsibility for the maintenance of stability in the whole of Europe. We therefore believe that the process of nuclear disarmament should become more dynamic. In this context, the initiative put forward by the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, with regard to the creation of a nuclear- weapon-free zone in Central and Eastern Europe between the Baltic and the Black Seas is the next logical step and an important move in the right direction. I would like to emphasize that the possible deployment of nuclear weapons on the territories of our neighbours in Central and Eastern Europe is a matter of great concern to us. We believe that support for the idea of a non-nuclear Central Europe would promote an atmosphere of confidence between and among the States of the region and prevent the emergence of new dividing lines on the European continent. By adding to the existing zones in Antarctica, the South Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean, as well as the nuclear-weapon- free zones in South-East Asia and Africa, the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central and Eastern Europe would create the “critical mass” that would foster the process of global nuclear disarmament. In our opinion, the Conference on Disarmament, which includes Ukraine as a new, full-fledged member, should immediately start developing a programme of complete nuclear disarmament with a view to bringing closer the realization of Ukraine’s appeal for a twenty-first century without nuclear weapons. Among other important international achievements of the past year, I would like to refer to the beginning of the peace settlement in the former Yugoslavia. It is important to remember that the peace-keeping efforts of the United Nations were not in vain. Risking their lives in difficult conditions, the Blue Helmets have fulfilled their mission and prevented the spillover of the conflict. In this context, I would like to draw the attention of the Assembly to the necessity of the speedy entry into force and implementation of the 1994 Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. We hope that the peace process initiated in Dayton has become irreversible. The proof of this will be in the successful implementation of the military aspects of the Peace Agreement by the Implementation Force (IFOR) and of the recent elections held in Bosnia under the auspices of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). In general, we think that recent international efforts in the former Yugoslavia have been a success not only for a peace settlement. In my opinion, we have also witnessed the appearance of a potential machinery for effective cooperation between various international structures in crisis management. I refer in particular to an important experience of the Implementation Force (IFOR) operation carried out, under the mandate of the Security Council, by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), its partners — including Ukraine — and other countries. At the same time, the ultimate success of the peace process will be impossible without the active and action-oriented involvement of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in the implementation of civil aspects of the Agreement. The concerted efforts by the United Nations, NATO and the OSCE to settle one of the most tragic conflicts of our time prove that political will and a clear division of functions between the respective structures make it possible to transform the idea of mutually reinforcing institutions into reality. In the meantime, the international community may have acquired a reliable mechanism for the solution of its acute problems. I believe that the experience of the peace settlement in the former Yugoslavia could serve as a shining example for the common elaboration of a future global security architecture by all Members of this world Organization. This architecture should also contain a comprehensive concept of peace-keeping, the elaboration of which, within the framework of the General Assembly, has to be accelerated. An essential element in this work could be the eventual reorientation of peace-keeping towards preventive diplomacy. However, it is obvious that we will not be able to build up a new global security architecture without radical reform of the United Nations itself. The need for United Nations reform was emphasized by virtually all participants at the last session of the General Assembly. This issue is also a matter of discussion at the current 10 session. Yet real changes can be achieved only on the condition of a substantial revision of the existing financial system of the United Nations. ln recent years the United Nations has been experiencing an unprecedented financial crisis which poses a real threat to its very functioning. Experience shows that financial crises are the result either of a wrong taxation policy or of unsound spending. We think that in the case of the United Nations both factors are involved. The inability of a number of Member States to meet their financial obligations is a direct consequence of the overassessment of their contribution rates. It will be impossible for the United Nations to avert financial crisis unless existing irregularities in the scale of apportionment of its expenses are eliminated. And we expect that the current session will find a proper solution to this problem. Against its will, Ukraine has been made one of the United Nations debtors. This has occurred due to the fact that the decision on the relocation of my country to group (c) in the scale for the financing of peace-keeping operations has been delayed for several years. The accumulation of a substantial debt is a direct result of the General Assembly’s unfair decision 47/456, whose sponsors were perfectly well aware that the decision would lead to the current financial crisis. They refused to increase the contribution of those nations which could afford to pay and, contrary to the rules, placed larger assessments on the shoulders of the countries which were unable to pay such amounts. Ukraine has always been aware of the need to provide the United Nations with adequate financial resources. Upon the instructions of my Government, I would like to inform members that Ukraine will start paying off its debt to the United Nations. As early as this year, the amount will be reduced by $20 million. In coming years, its real payments to the Organization’s budget will be increased. The reform of the Security Council should become another important component of transformation within the United Nations. We support the desire of Germany and Japan to acquire the status of permanent members of the Security Council, but at the same time stand for increasing the number of non-permanent members on the basis of equitable geographical representation, which would also take into account the interests of the Eastern European regional group. I hope that the “two plus eight” formula which was proposed by Ukraine and which, in principle, coincides with the Italian approach and that of other countries, will be conducive to the achievement of a mutually acceptable solution to the problem within the framework of the relevant Working Group of the General Assembly. One of the essential features of general peace and security in the next millennium should be qualitatively new international economic cooperation, the globalization of production and trade, the development of science and technology and the broadening of the flows of finances and services. We believe that the attention of the world community should focus today on more than the political and military aspects of security. It must also encompass the economic, social and ecological dimensions of peace and sustainable development. For Ukraine, this is not just an abstract idea without a fixed deadline for its implementation. Chernobyl turned the ecological dimension of our national security into a priority of Ukrainian domestic and foreign policy. Ten years have passed since that catastrophe, but we are still experiencing its grave consequences. Chernobyl has not disappeared into the past. If humankind continues to ignore common sense and to think only about today, Chernobyl may be a reflection of our future. We are encouraged by the Secretary-General’s report on the work of the Organization (A/51/1) stating that the United Nations remains deeply concerned by the consequences of Chernobyl and is committed to pursuing measures aimed at their alleviation. We hope that the international community will continue to create conditions, including material and financial ones, which would allow Ukraine to meet its obligation and to decommission the Chernobyl nuclear power plant by the year 2000. We should also remember that durable peace and sustainable development on a global scale cannot be achieved unless all countries secure adequate living standards for their populations and overcome unemployment, poverty, social disintegration and environmental pollution. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the initiative concerning the creation of the Council on Economic Security put forward by the President of Ukraine at the Special Commemorative Meeting of the General Assembly last year. In our view, it is high time to concentrate the efforts of United Nations Member States on the formation of a legal basis which would 11 allow us to implement this important initiative as one of the steps towards increasing the level of international economic security, securing the global coordination of the activities of international, regional and national economic institutions and preventing economic coercion and discrimination. The issues of international terrorism, organized crime, illicit trafficking of drugs and money laundering have become matters of special concern. Ukraine has always played an active role in international efforts, particularly within the framework of the United Nations, aimed at eliminating these scourges of the present, which not only threaten the security and the health of people but have a negative impact on the social, economic and political situation in many countries. We believe that special attention should be paid to the elaboration of specific actions to be taken against transnational organized crime. In this context, Poland’s initiative to place on the agenda of the current session the question of the possible elaboration of a convention on those issues is more than timely and should be supported. Ukraine is ready to participate in the drafting of this legal instrument. In view of the present financial situation of the Organization, the search for new ways to revitalize international cooperation in the field of development has acquired new significance. One of the promising trends, primarily in finding additional sources of financing, is the promotion of regular dialogue between the United Nations and the financial institution of the Bretton Woods system. We are convinced that larger resources allocated by these institutions for development would speed up social and economic transformations both in economies in transition and in developing countries. They would also create conditions for the successful reform of the global system of international economic relations. It is quite obvious that the integration of those countries into the world economic system would benefit the entire global community. We believe that this very philosophy should become a foundation for a new strategy of global economic development. The United Nations is called upon to play a decisive role in its elaboration. In this context, we welcome the gradual deepening of understanding among Member States of the problems faced by the countries with economies in transition, as is shown by the increased resources allocated by the United Nations Development Programme for its operational activities in the countries of Eastern Europe, including Ukraine. For its part, Ukraine is considering becoming a full member of the multilateral General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade/World Trade Organization system as an integral part of its own economic reform. The successes of the United Nations depend upon the stable development of each Member State. Steadily overcoming the obstacles that befell our State in the process of radically transforming its society, Ukraine has recently marked the fifth anniversary of its independence. From this rostrum I would like to reaffirm that the choice of the Ukrainian people in favour of independent democratic development is final and irreversible. The adoption on 28 June of this year of the Constitution of Ukraine has become an event of historic importance for the Ukrainian people. As President Leonid Kuchma emphasized, “It is an event of a great significance belonging to those few historical dates which unite people not by the iron fist but by the imperatives of the heart, and which turn a population into a nation and a territory into a State.” In adopting its fundamental law, Ukraine has chosen its own model of State-building and for reformatting its public life. In drafting the law, Ukrainian legislators benefited not only from previous historical experiences — such as that provided by Pylyp Orlyk, a famous seventeenth-century Ukrainian public figure who wrote one of the first European democratic constitutions — but also drew upon the modern experience, in particular that of the members of the Council of Europe. We in Ukraine are consistently building a sovereign, independent, democratic and socially-oriented State which promotes human rights as the highest social value. Under extremely difficult circumstances, we have managed to follow the European model of public life. I would like to emphasize that integration into European and Euro-Atlantic structures is a strategic goal of Ukraine. At the same time my country is still committed to non-bloc status. Having yesterday become an observer in the Non-Aligned Movement, Ukraine once again proved this. No less important for us remain relations with the newly independent States of the former Soviet Union, notably with the Russian Federation, to which we are linked by common historical experiences. 12 Transformations initiated by the market reform of the economy are becoming increasingly perceptible in Ukraine. The recent introduction of a new currency, the hryvnya, proves conclusively that the radical economic changes in Ukraine have become irreversible. The first results of monetary reform show that in addition to a positive impact on business activities, it has had a stabilizing psychological effect on the Ukrainian people. Our society is in the process of formation. We realize that ours is a long and difficult path. There are a number of important objectives we have to achieve. This will require the gradual revival of democratic standards and their introduction into the fabric of Ukrainian society, which has been scarred by the totalitarian policies of the last decades. While advancing along this road, Ukraine will continue to count on the support of the international community. At the same time, I would like to reaffirm that Ukraine will continue to be committed to supporting the United Nations which, like my own country, is experiencing a difficult but vital time of transformation. This is the imperative of our times, and we have to meet this challenge.  ﻿I have the honour to convey to the President and all the members the warm greetings and good wishes of His Majesty Jigme Singye Wangchuck, King of Bhutan, for the success of the fifty-first session of the United Nations General Assembly. We congratulate Ambassador Razali on his unanimous election as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. We are happy that a close friend of Bhutan is presiding over our deliberations. We are fully aware of his wide experience and deep interest in the United Nations. He is not only an outspoken critic of the shortcomings of the United Nations but is also one of its greatest supporters, and we look to this session with high expectations. I would like to express our deepest appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral for the exemplary manner in which he conducted the Special Commemorative Meeting of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I am also grateful for the privilege of having had the opportunity to serve in his Bureau. We would also like to take this opportunity to pay a special tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his leadership in steering the United Nations through a period of many challenges and changes. Twenty-five years ago, on 21 September 1971, Bhutan became a Member of the United Nations. That day saw the fulfilment of a long-cherished dream and was a historic occasion on which the people of Bhutan joined hands with the international community. We have since taken great pride in our membership of the world body and have made great strides. Bhutan has stepped forward to take an active role by seeking membership in all major United Nations and other international bodies including the Bretton Woods institutions. Our membership of the United Nations has provided us with the opportunity to participate in all international discussions of importance. Our participation, which we consider both a privilege and an obligation, has always been guided by a positive attitude, seeking to contribute constructively and fairly. On the part of the international community, Bhutan has received an outpouring of goodwill and friendship. The United Nations and its agencies have come to our assistance with enthusiasm and dedication. Every sector in Bhutan has received the benefit of United Nations assistance, and the lives of the people of Bhutan have greatly improved. Today, the development of Bhutan rests in the hands of young Bhutanese, many of whom were trained through United Nations assistance. I take this opportunity to put on record the heartfelt gratitude of the people of Bhutan to the United Nations and international institutions, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Capital Development Fund, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the World Food Programme, the United Nations Volunteers programme, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the World Bank and the African Development Bank, many of which have been working constructively in Bhutan for the last 25 years. Bhutan takes the opportunity of the twenty-fifth anniversary of our membership to rededicate ourselves to the principles of the United Nations and its Charter. As we rededicate ourselves to the United Nations and express our support and gratitude, we are conscious of the fact that the United Nations is at a crossroads, and that there is a struggle for the heart and soul of the Organization. The world has changed, and the United Nations too must change to meet the new realities. Today we would like to confine our remarks to a few areas which we feel need to be addressed in the process of reform and in preparing the United Nations for the next century. The increase in membership from the original 51 Members to the current 185 is the clearest indication that the United Nations is truly a global body. The representation and participation of all United Nations 15 Members in the General Assembly give true meaning and legitimacy to the United Nations, yet increasingly the General Assembly has little influence in the work of the United Nations. The role of the Assembly must be enhanced. It must become the centre of the United Nations and the source of both its moral and real authority. In order to do this, the General Assembly must change its own working methods, and its debates and agenda must be made more meaningful. It must become the point from which all United Nations policies emanate. The General Assembly’s relations with other principal organs and bodies of the United Nations must be streamlined and strengthened. The structure of other principal organs such as the Economic and Social Council must also be reviewed. In many of the principal organs, subsidiary bodies and commissions have taken a more prominent role than the organs themselves. While we agree that the more detailed work of implementing the technical aspects must be devolved to commissions and subsidiary bodies, policies must be made by the principal organs themselves. Many here will agree that the subsidiary bodies, committees, groups, and so forth, are too numerous to keep track of, let alone participate in. All United Nations bodies must finally be made accountable to the General Assembly. Unless this linkage is strengthened, many Members will be excluded from the activities of the United Nations. For many smaller Members, the possibility of being elected to and participating in many United Nations bodies is limited. Therefore, the General Assembly is of paramount importance for enhancing the participation and role of Member countries. In the area of peace and security, there is increasing concern that the United Nations is unable to maintain peace and provide security, particularly for its smaller and more vulnerable Members. This view seems to persist despite a number of successful interventions by the United Nations. There is growing frustration that the Security Council, the only body of the United Nations with any real authority, is unable to respond to the challenges posed by the present conflicts, and that the Security Council is primarily driven by the views of its major members. The need for reform and expansion is more and more keenly felt. In our view, there must be an increase in the number of both permanent and non-permanent members. Developing countries and deserving countries from all regions must be included in the ranks of permanent members. Using the objective criteria of equitable distribution, the ability to contribute to the work of the United Nations and the maintenance of international peace and security, Bhutan believes that India and Japan qualify for permanent membership of the Security Council. Expansion alone is not sufficient. The decision- making process of the Security Council, its relations with the General Assembly, and other powers such as the veto and the Council’s virtual hold over the appointment of judges of the International Court of Justice and other important positions in the United Nations, must be reviewed. Progress towards a world free of tension can only be made with disarmament that includes all types of weapons. While various steps have been taken towards easing the nuclear threat, no significant progress towards the goal of the complete elimination of all nuclear weapons has been made. We must not lose sight of the primary objective of the complete elimination of nuclear weapons. The disarmament dialogue must include all parties and address the genuine concerns of every Member State. A brisk international business in conventional arms continues to pose a threat to peace and security. As long as there is an unlimited supply of arms, their use in the settlement of disputes will continue. We must expand our initiatives at the United Nations to control the global arms trade. Bhutan supports the steps taken towards the elimination of chemical and biological weapons. The United Nations Register of Conventional Arms is a useful step. Efforts must also be redoubled to bring about a moratorium on the manufacture, sale and deployment of anti-personnel landmines, with the objective of eliminating this weapon which kills indiscriminately. With the major agreements and common ground arrived at during the United Nations global conferences of the 1990s, it was hoped that the stage had been set for fresh impetus and a new direction in international development. In reality the new era of development has continued to elude us. There is an emerging consensus that the new approach to development must be to concentrate on the well-being of the individual person and to release the productive capacity of the human spirit and of nations through social development, free markets, international trade and investment. While this strategy has brought progress to many countries, many poorer developing countries have not been able to compete and benefit, due to structural inadequacies in their economies or because of the small size of their markets. 16 To adapt to the new approaches to development, all United Nations agencies have to undergo major changes in their organization and operations. However, the resources available to United Nations agencies have declined both in actual and real terms. Many of them are unable to carry out programmes at the level of previous cycles. In these circumstances, many of the targets set in the major global conferences, whether in health, environment, population, education, or other social fields, may not be met. It is often said that the overall contribution of United Nations agencies to a country’s development is small. While this may be the case in larger countries, it should be pointed out that in many smaller countries the input of United Nations agencies plays a substantial role. It is unfortunate that the most far-reaching responsibility of the United Nations, which can make a lasting impact in improving the lives of millions of people, is being constrained and reduced at a time when more efforts are necessary. The efforts of the United Nations development bodies are of particular importance to the 48 least developed countries. It has become increasingly difficult for the concerns and needs of these countries to find a place in the international development dialogue. The United Nations, through the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and all other agencies, must ensure that the situation and the needs of the least developed countries are kept in focus and as part of any agenda for development. Otherwise we risk the further marginalization of a significant number of countries. The United Nations development agencies must ensure that the resources they spend in finding and developing new ideas and approaches are balanced and matched by programmes and resources in the field. The agencies and developing countries must work closely together in order to regain the confidence of the donor community. Bhutan strongly believes that the special role that many development agencies fulfil must not be allowed to diminish due to a lack of funds. Bhutan recognizes that developing countries must work closely with other major participants in the international development effort, such as financial institutions, bilateral donors and the world business community. Bhutan has greatly benefitted from the contributions and efforts of our bilateral donors. Their assistance has been utilized effectively and has contributed meaningfully to our development. We take this opportunity to express our gratitude to our bilateral donors, in particular India, Switzerland, Japan, Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, Norway, Kuwait, Germany, Australia and Thailand, for their cooperation and generous assistance. Allow me to express a few thoughts concerning the impact of reform on the United Nations. We are aware that the issue of reforming the United Nations system and its organizational structure is not new, and that it was raised just a few years after the establishment of the United Nations itself. However, the issue of organizational reform has taken on special significance in the last few years, given the financial situation of the United Nations and some of its major agencies. While the dialogue on reform of the United Nations continues, the Organization has had to implement major cuts in staff and activities. The morale of the international civil servants has been greatly affected. This situation should not be allowed to continue for long. All Member countries must take cognizance of these facts, work towards completing the reform process, and place the Organization on a firm financial footing at an early date. We must not be afraid of reform and change. Major changes have already been carried out, and there are still many areas which need to be addressed. However, it is our view that the process of reform of the Organization should be time-bound. A long, drawn out process with no end in sight will hinder the Organization in effectively carrying out the vast responsibilities we have assigned to it. The calls for change and reform of the United Nations, in their own way, are the best indicator of the strong support of its Members. The United Nations today has become an indispensable institution in international relations and development. It is up to us, the Member States, to ensure that it will be able to meet the aspirations and expectations of all its Members, large and small. It must become the source of inspiration for all and a guiding beacon that will take the world to the next millennium of peace and prosperity for all the peoples and nations of the world. ﻿It gives me particular pleasure to address the General Assembly at a session of over which Malaysia has been elected to preside. Our two countries are good friends, and Ambassador Razali is personally known to and respected by us all. New Zealand looks forward to a productive session under his leadership. In just two weeks New Zealanders face a general election. There are many subjects over which the various political parties differ, but one thing remains quite clear: the support of New Zealanders for the United Nations and the rule of international law embodied in it. For New Zealand, as for many other countries represented here today — and especially smaller countries — the primary purpose of the United Nations remains to provide for a system of collective security. It brings the nations of the world together in a grand coalition to keep the peace, to help eliminate weapons of mass destruction, to uphold human rights, to encourage good governance, to protect the environment and to promote economic and social development, including by supporting the role of women. Together, these activities, along with national and regional initiatives, provide the underpinnings of the system of collective security that we want to leave for our children. For New Zealanders, our confidence in the United Nations was reaffirmed when, two weeks ago, the General Assembly adopted the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. It gave me much satisfaction to sign the Treaty earlier today on behalf of the Government and the people of New Zealand. Agreement on a test ban has been a New Zealand objective for more than three decades and one we promoted in this Assembly, together with Australia and Mexico. It reflects deeply held convictions on the part of all New Zealanders. New Zealand has argued, and will continue to argue, for a world without nuclear weapons. Our belief that these weapons of mass destruction can and should be eliminated has been reinforced by the experiences of our region as a testing ground for nuclear weapons. I am glad to say it is an era now happily behind us. For New Zealand, the Treaty represents first of all an end to nuclear testing in our region and worldwide. But even more, it puts real obstacles in the way of any State seeking to refine or develop a nuclear arsenal. We have taken a significant step on the way to eliminating nuclear weapons entirely. Now, however, we must look ahead. The International Court of Justice, in its recent Advisory Opinion on the legality of the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, set out our obligation in this regard: the obligation to pursue in good faith and to bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament. New Zealand believes that in 1997 all States, including nuclear-weapon States, should pursue negotiations on a phased programme of nuclear disarmament, with the ultimate goals of the complete elimination of nuclear weapons and a treaty on general and complete disarmament under strict and effective international control. We are better placed to make our contribution to such negotiations because of the recent decision of the Conference on Disarmament to admit New Zealand and 22 other countries as full members. As a reflection of the importance we attach to its ongoing work, my Government has now decided to appoint a full-time Disarmament Ambassador to the Conference in Geneva. Further steps towards a nuclear-free world are recommended in the report of the Canberra Commission on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons, released last month. We hope that report will energize discussions at the national level, particularly in the nuclear-weapon States. The aspirations of many States to be free of nuclear weapons have found expression in the establishment of what are now four nuclear-weapon-free zones. Taken together, the four relevant treaties have the potential to cover some 114 nations and 1.7 billion people. My Government has given considerable thought to ways in which cooperation between nuclear-weapon-free zones can be advanced. We are working with other Governments on a draft resolution to be submitted to the Assembly at this session, and New Zealand hopes it will receive wide support. The disarmament arena is only one where the United Nations must continue to address serious challenges to our collective security. When my Government took office in October 1990, the international community faced the challenge presented by Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait. In the heart of Europe, Yugoslavia was on the path to political disintegration. Few of us imagined then, however, the nightmare of Bosnia, the genocide to come in Rwanda or the mass starvation and anarchy in Somalia. In response, during our term on the Security Council in 1993 and 1994, a record 75,000 United Nations peacekeepers were deployed around the world, and Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait was robustly countered by coalition action authorized by the Security Council. New Zealand was part of that coalition and is part of the current efforts to ensure that Iraq complies with subsequent Council decisions. Recent events show that we still need to be vigilant. Iraq must recognize that there are limits to what the international community will tolerate. New Zealanders also serve in the former Yugoslavia where, while the implementation of the Dayton accords lies primarily with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the United Nations continues to play an important role. Similarly, our personnel serve in Angola and the Middle East. New Zealanders are staunch supporters of the United Nations role in international peacekeeping, despite the fact that the overall record through the first half of this decade has been mixed. There were successes, such as Cambodia, Mozambique and El Salvador, and there were the disappointments and bitter frustrations of Bosnia, Somalia and Rwanda. I hesitate to call those operations failures. To me, that would be to overlook the positive things they achieved in extremely difficult circumstances and the contributions made by so many dedicated and able people. Those operations will be failures only if we fail to learn from them. I think we have learned. We have learned that, first, the United Nations must be given the resources required to do the job. Secondly, the Organization must be careful about mixing enforcement tasks with peacekeeping, unless our peacekeepers are appropriately configured from the outset for the higher level of threat. Thirdly, the Security Council should be wary of adopting resolutions to which the Organization cannot give effect. This creates a very corrosive credibility problem. My Government also considers that the United Nations must continue its efforts to develop a capacity to respond more rapidly. We commend the proposal to establish a rapidly deployable operational headquarters team and, indeed, have offered to contribute a highly experienced officer to it. Demining remains an important focus for New Zealand. Mines pose an unacceptable threat to peacekeeping operations and are a longer-term 2 humanitarian and development challenge. The United Nations must make every effort to ensure that the necessary resources are available for demining activities. We have more than doubled our annual instalment to the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Assistance in Mine Clearance. This is in addition to our continuing contribution of expertise in demining in Cambodia, Mozambique and Angola, as well as here at United Nations Headquarters. Finally, we do not think the United Nations can write itself out of the script when operations involving a potential enforcement dimension are contemplated. If it did so, it could quickly become irrelevant. The threats to international peace and security in the future are likely to be every bit as difficult as those of the recent past. The United Nations will need to be able to respond effectively, not simply as a rubber stamp for great-Power actions. The tragic events of recent days in the West Bank and Gaza show that peace there remains elusive. New Zealand calls upon all parties to desist from actions that might derail the Middle East peace process. Painstaking efforts have gone into that process, and it offers a real hope for a long- term solution to the problems that have bedeviled that region. It must be supported and not jeopardized. Human rights are the foundation of freedom and justice, and the achievement of universal respect for human rights is an essential prerequisite for international peace and security. In New Zealand we work hard to ensure that our own house is in order. We are committed to ensuring that the rights elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Covenants and other core human rights instruments are a living reality for all New Zealanders, and we are prepared to speak out when we see human rights being violated in other parts of the world. At its heart, our international human rights policy is geared to finding tangible ways of protecting and promoting human rights and good government. In the Asia-Pacific region we are pleased by the progress the United Nations is making in nurturing human rights frameworks. We are also encouraged by the new levels of cooperation and interaction being achieved by the human rights commissions of the region. New Zealand also sees a need to support individual countries, international and regional organizations and non- governmental organizations in their work to improve human rights and the quality of governance. To this end the Minister for Foreign Affairs has today announced the establishment of an international good-government programme. This new programme will markedly expand our ability to support good government and human rights capacity-building activities. It will work in tandem with the existing Commonwealth Good Government Fund. Consistent with United Nations principles, New Zealand has also participated actively in the Action Group of Commonwealth Ministers for the promotion of principles of good governance established at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting at Harare in 1991 and reaffirmed at its Auckland meeting in 1995. For my own part, I have been privileged to represent New Zealand at several of the Action Group’s meetings and during its recent mission to Gambia. Such programmes, with the interlinked goals of social progress and economic development, do not come cheaply. The money spent on United Nations relief and development greatly surpasses that spent on peacekeeping, and so it should. At the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 it was recognized that substantial new and additional funding would be required for sustainable development and the implementation of Agenda 21, the programme of action that will take us into the next century. I am pleased to be able to say that by next year New Zealand will have increased its official development assistance by almost one third since Rio. There will be a 24 per cent increase in our funding for United Nations development agencies this year. 1997 will see the five-year review of Agenda 21. At the special session of the General Assembly next June, one important task will be to assess the effectiveness of the bodies and institutions that have been established to advance the aims set out in Agenda 21. The issues are many, and all are important. But we need to focus efforts and produce real results. In this regard, the Commission on Sustainable Development should have a strengthened role. It should be the forum in which States can work to streamline the environment-and-sustainable- development agenda. All these challenges facing this unique Organization, and our regard for it, highlight of course the urgent need 3 for reform. In particular, the Security Council must be made more representative of the Organization’s membership as it is today, not as it was 50 years ago. Its decision- making procedures must be brought up to date. Finding a sustainable basis for the financing of the Organization remains long overdue. New Zealand has dedicated itself to reform of both the Secretariat and the intergovernmental machinery, not least through our vigorous commitment to the work of the Open-ended High- level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System. The report of that group provides a blueprint for action during this session. We also support the Efficiency Board, and have made available to it the services of a New Zealand expert in public-service restructuring. We believe that New Zealand’s record, not only as a prompt contributor of assessments, but also as a country that has demonstrated its commitment to financial reform, places it in a good position to make an effective contribution to the work of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, in which we are seeking membership at this year’s session of the General Assembly. The drive for reform of the United Nations system to make it an effective instrument of the international community for the next 50 years means no part of it can remain immune from scrutiny. A good deal of attention has been focused on the Security Council, the General Assembly and the Secretariat. We believe there is also scope for increasing the effectiveness of the International Court of Justice. It is 50 years since the ICJ was established as the principal United Nations judicial organ. To mark this important milestone in the international rule of law, we should now finally schedule a conference to adopt the statute for the international criminal court. The creation of a permanent court that will bring justice to victims of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and other serious international crimes is surely a priority for us all. I am grateful to have had this opportunity to reaffirm New Zealand’s commitment to this Organization, and to multilateralism, as the means for building a better world.  ﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate Mr. Razali most warmly on his election as President of this session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. I am convinced that his diplomatic qualities will contribute greatly to the attainment of the objectives of this session. It is my pleasure to express my gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Diego Freitas do Amaral for the excellent conduct and competence that he displayed during his presidency of the previous session. During the five years that have elapsed since the declaration of our independence, and in the four years since the Republic of Moldova was admitted to the United Nations, we have tried to show the whole world that we are a country that is seeking a worthy place in the international community. My country’s choice of the rule of law and a market economy has led to an increase in its credibility at the international level. I should like to assure the Assembly that the Republic of Moldova is irreversibly committed to the path of democracy, which is the best guarantee of sustainable development, peace and social progress. I should like to stress that the process of democratic reforms in our country has been, and continues to be, supported by the United Nations and its specialized agencies, by the European organizations and by the entire international community. I take this opportunity to extend thanks for this assistance, which is essential for our programme of reforms. The complex process of transition in the Republic of Moldova and in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe is facing difficulties that require additional means. This reform has also created negative social phenomena, which have particularly affected the most vulnerable groups of the population. To alleviate these undesirable effects, the Government has adopted and implemented measures of social protection. The difficulties that we are facing in promoting economic reforms are created not only by a lack of experience but also by a shortage of commodities and financial and energy resources. In this respect, I should like to stress the importance of support and encouragement offered to the Republic of Moldova 26 by the international financial institutions, by the United Nations specialized agencies and by certain developed countries. We will also need such support in the future to smoothly carry out our reforms. Integration into European economic and political structures remains a priority of our foreign policy. We are convinced that, given the objectives of economic and social reform, the development and deepening of relations with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Council of Europe and the European Union, as well as close cooperation in the context of the Partnership for Peace programme and the North Atlantic Cooperation Council, take on a new dimension. Such a process also creates favourable conditions for the affirmation of the Republic of Moldova as a sovereign and independent State. We state our willingness to cooperate with regional organizations to ensure stability in Europe as well as peace and security throughout the world. The choice of permanent neutrality stipulated in our Constitution explains why the Republic of Moldova is not participating in, and does not intend to join, the military structures of the Commonwealth of Independent States or of other regional organizations. The conflict in the eastern part of my country remains an obstacle to democratization and to progress on economic reforms. We cannot ignore the continuing violations of human rights in the Transdnestr. The international community has been informed of them many times. Despite our negotiations and many appeals of international organizations, we have yet to obtain the release of the members of the Ilascu group, who were sentenced and imprisoned illegally four years ago by the anti-constitutional authorities of Tiraspol.We are concerned that the Moldavian population in the schools and institutions of this region of the country are banned from using Latin characters in the study of their mother tongue. This conflict still remains a central concern, despite negotiations, despite the spirit of compromise of the political leaders, and despite their will to resolve the problems in the eastern zone through peaceful means, in cooperation with international organizations such as the United Nations and the OSCE, and together with the assistance of the affected States, Russia and the Ukraine, which have expressed their willingness to be guarantors. The Republic of Moldova believes that the only solution to the conflict lies in the development of a draft law related to the special status of Transdnestr as an integral part of a unified and indivisible State, in accordance with our Constitution. In the context of negotiations, we have already signed several interim documents covering various aspects of the normalization of the situation in this region. We remain true to the principle of territorial integrity and of the sovereignty of the State, which we will always respect. Unfortunately, the authorities of the anti-constitutional republic are not yet ready to accept the principle of territorial integrity and of the sovereignty of the State. We reaffirm our willingness to continue negotiations with the authorities of Tiraspol in order to find a solution to the Transdnestr conflict. We consider that the process of a peaceful and definitive solution to the conflict in the eastern zone of the Republic of Moldova could be considerably accelerated through the immediate, complete, ordered and unconditional withdrawal of military units of the Russian Federation. We are concerned by the fact that these foreign troops continue to be stationed on the territory of the Republic of Moldova, which is contrary to our constitutional stipulation of the neutrality of our country. Although the agreement between the Republic of Moldova and the Russian Federation relating to the legal status, the method and the terms of withdrawal of Russian military contingents stationed temporarily on the territory of Moldova was signed two years ago, the Russian State Duma has yet to ratify the agreement. We hope that the competent Russian authorities will accelerate the entry into force and the implementation of the Moldovan- Russian agreement of 21 October 1994. As regards to the revitalization of the United Nations and the reform of its structures in the spirit of democratization and in accordance of the latest world developments, we note with satisfaction that the United Nations as a guarantor of international peace, stability and security has expanded its efforts through improving the mechanisms for maintaining peace and has intensified its activities in the area of preventive diplomacy and the settlement of regional conflicts, and has developed new concepts and means for crisis management such as stand- by commitments and rapid-reaction forces. The Republic of Moldova welcomes the efforts of the Conference on Disarmament towards the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. At present, goals likely to help overcome the financial crisis by finding the resources necessary for effective action by the United Nations are fundamental. In 27 our view, the reform of the United Nations must also cover the financial aspect. We can attempt viable solutions only with the participation of all Member States. The Republic of Moldova is not indifferent to this situation and will make efforts to meet its financial obligations. However, it is my duty to stress that we are obliged to bear an assessment that is calculated at a level which is exaggerated in comparison with our real possibilities. This calculation has led to a situation where the scale of assessments for our country is higher than that of States with a similar level of development. It is high time that we found an appropriate methodology reflecting the capacity to pay of States. We hope that the spirit of fairness and solidarity that reigns in the United Nations will lead the General Assembly to recommend that the Committee on Contributions revise and readjust the scale of assessment to the level of indices that would truly reflect the parameters of the economies of Member States. In this context, the Republic of Moldova supports the proposal of the European Union regarding the methodology regarding the calculation of the scale of assessments, which we consider to be fairer and more appropriate to the real payment capacity of all Member States than that which is used now. The Republic of Moldova supports United Nations reforms aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the Organization and its main bodies, considering that this innovative process reflects reality and the changes which have occurred in the international system following the cold-war era. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Moldova attaches particular importance to the role the Security Council plays in preventing the development of new threats to peace and international security. Developing conflicts, acts of aggression and interference in the internal affairs of States threaten regional and international security. The role of the Security Council in avoiding these dangers is of prime importance. Aware of this role of the Security Council as a collective decision-making body in the area of peace and international security, the Republic of Moldova considers that a change in its composition must be carried out without hindering its effectiveness. My delegation feels that an increase in the number of seats on the Security Council should be carried out in a balanced way including both permanent and non-permanent seats, which would provide access for new members from both the North and the South. As regards new permanent seats, the President of our Republic, His Excellency Mr. Mircea Snegur, proposed at the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly that the status of permanent member be given to the major economic Powers which play an important role in economic affairs, such as Germany and Japan. As for the increase in the number of non-permanent seats, we find the Italian proposal interesting, as it reflects the interests of most States Members of the United Nations and offers a well- considered solution to this question. The Republic of Moldova is devoted to the principles and to the ideals of the Charter of the United Nations, and greatly appreciates the activities of the United Nations, which for more than five decades has shown itself to be a forum for harmonizing the efforts of the peoples of the world in order to maintain international peace and security and to ensure the development of relations of friendship and cooperation among Member States. The actions undertaken by the United Nations have from the very beginning pursued the goal of building new relationships among countries of the whole world. After four years of activity as a full Member, the actions of the Republic of Moldova within the context of the United Nations remain among the priorities of its foreign policy, aimed at giving our State a more active presence at the international level as well as at the development and intensification of relations of friendship and cooperation with all members of the international community. The Republic of Moldova is in favour of harmonizing the interests of Member States. In conclusion, I would like to express the hope that the particular constructive spirit of the United Nations which reigns once again at this session of the General Assembly will enable us to respond to the challenges facing the international community at this time. I am convinced that the United Nations will remain a guarantee of international peace and security and of economic and social development worldwide. My delegation expresses its willingness to contribute to effective cooperation with the delegations of all Member States in order to attain the purposes of the United Nations.  ﻿On behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, I should like at the outset to congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his unanimous election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, and to express my happiness at seeing a fellow Asian, from Malaysia, with which my country enjoys the best of relations, guiding our deliberations. I pledge to him the full cooperation of my delegation. I wish also to thank Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral for having guided the fiftieth session of the General Assembly to a successful conclusion. My profound appreciation and gratitude also go to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts in quest of a world of peace, progress, justice and humanity. The past five decades have seen the United Nations striving to fulfil its Charter objectives. Yet peace and prosperity — mankind’s highest dream — remain unrealized. Conflicts, enormous cruelty, poverty, hunger and, of late, population and environmental problems, have been relentlessly on the rise. The United Nations, which has limited resources at its disposal and is thus ill- prepared to deal with such situations, has become the target of increasing public criticism. The tendency to focus on the Organization’s set-backs while ignoring its record of real and substantive success threatens to undermine the raison d’être of the United Nations. Those formidable odds notwithstanding, the world body has achieved a great deal of success in the field of peace, democracy and human rights. It has many recent achievements to its credit, in Namibia, Mozambique, Cambodia, Haiti and El Salvador, to name but a few. Thanks to the efforts of the United Nations, the hope for stability and democracy has been a living reality in those countries. The presence of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force and the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization continues to make a difference in the Middle East. Similarly, the United Nations has exerted efforts to keep and mediate peace in many countries of Asia, Africa, Europe and Latin America through use of its good offices and through peacekeeping operations. In spite of perceived setbacks suffered by the Organization in some peacekeeping operations, which were undermanned and lacked clear-cut mandates, we must not forget the real good that has been achieved through the prevention of further genocides, the provision of massive humanitarian relief and paving the way for political settlements. A year ago, many world leaders gathered here to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. With a deep sense of optimism, they took stock of the past and present performance of the Organization, as they also pondered the future course that it may have to traverse. They reaffirmed their faith in the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter, renewed their commitment to the world body and pledged their support to enable the Organization to come to grips with new realities and challenges. No doubt the fiftieth anniversary 14 underlined the need to reactivate the United Nations as the centrepiece of international relations, thereby further deepening our hopes in the world body. Nepal takes comfort in the fact that the Dayton peace process has provided the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a chance to realize their long-cherished dream of a peaceful homeland. The recently concluded elections, we hope, will contribute to a lasting peace in the Balkans, and we take this opportunity to extend our appreciation to all who contributed to this election process. We are equally happy to be part of this peace process through our contribution of civilian police monitors to the International Police Task Force and the United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium, under the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We hope that the next local elections will also be held peacefully. Last year in this Hall I said that the peace process in the Middle East had become irreversible. That is still the view of Nepal, but the recent aggravation of the situation, involving heavy loss of lives and consequent negative implications for peace, has given us deep concern. It is my earnest hope that the recent Washington summit meeting between Prime Minister Netanyahu and Chairman Arafat will restore trust between the two sides and be instrumental in the immediate resumption of serious negotiations within the Middle East peace process. More than any other country, the landlocked country of Afghanistan has been a victim of the cold war, and the Afghan people are still suffering from its far-reaching consequences. We hope that peace prevails in that country. Nepal, however, was deeply concerned at the flagrant violation of the United Nations sanctuary. We believe that United Nations peacekeeping operations are indispensable in the maintenance of international peace and security. Nepal has been a major troop-contributing country to peacekeeping missions of the United Nations. Over the years we have participated in various peacekeeping operations with a total of 30,000 troops and hundreds of civilian police. Our commitment to United Nations peace initiatives continues undiminished. Nepal supports ongoing efforts for the establishment of a rapidly deployable Headquarters team in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations of the United Nations Secretariat, within the framework of a system of stand-by arrangements to enhance the rapid response capabilities of the United Nations — a system to which Nepal has made a stand-by commitment to provide up to 2,000 troops and 200 police monitors. Work on such a Headquarters team should proceed in a transparent manner and involve all interested Member States, particularly troop-contributing nations. We believe that it should be composed of staff recruited by the United Nations. The United Nations is unfortunately beset with a chronic financial crisis, which has seriously impaired the Organization’s ability to perform well. Despite the year- long meetings of the High-level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations, the financial health of the Organization is still precarious, and cross-funding of the regular budget from the peacekeeping account is becoming almost the rule rather than the exception. The continuation of such practice, which invariably results in late reimbursements to the troop-contributing countries, is detrimental to the rapid deployment capability expected of the United Nations. The capacity of the United Nations to plan and execute peacekeeping missions will be greatly undermined if the present financial crisis persists. Without a secure financial base, the international community cannot expect the United Nations to play the role demanded of it in the maintenance of international peace and security. Modern peacekeeping missions, involving complex intra-State conflicts combined with massive humanitarian relief operations, expose peacekeepers to an unprecedented level of danger. It is therefore only fitting that those brave harbingers of peace who are put in harm’s way be treated on an equal footing by the United Nations. We hope that a just system of death and disability compensation, as mandated by the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, will be established soon. For Nepal, the recent adoption by the General Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is a landmark in the history of nuclear non-proliferation and arms control. We hope that it is the culmination of our efforts to ban nuclear testing once and for all. We believe that the conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty brings us a step closer to our dream of a nuclear-weapon-free world. It is precisely for that reason that Nepal supported the Treaty, to which I put my signature yesterday on behalf of my country. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is only a partial fulfilment of our Treaty commitment to pursue in good faith the goal of the total elimination of nuclear 15 weapons. With the adoption of the Treaty, it has become more urgent than ever that we seriously consider other priority issues of nuclear disarmament in a practicable, time-bound framework. In this regard, Nepal wishes to underline its support for the programme of action recently put forward by 28 non-aligned and neutral countries for the elimination of nuclear weapons through a phased programme. In recent times, substantial progress has been made in the creation and expansion of nuclear-weapon-free zones. The Treaty of Bangkok and the Treaty of Pelindaba have established South-East Asia and the continent of Africa, respectively, as nuclear-weapon-free zones. Indeed, these are steps, in the best tradition of the Treaties of Tlatelolco and Rarotonga, that could contribute greatly to the cause of nuclear disarmament and the global nuclear non- proliferation regime. We earnestly hope that efforts will be intensified in the Middle East and in our own region of South Asia so that the goal of nuclear-weapon-free zones becomes a reality in those regions as well. We are of the view that our efforts towards the goal of total nuclear disarmament must be matched by efforts to achieve the non-proliferation of other weapons of mass destruction. We therefore fully support measures aimed at imposing a total ban on chemical, biological and other inhumane weapons, including the production, sale and export of anti-personnel landmines. In this regard, I am glad to say that Nepal is now at the final stage of completing the necessary constitutional process in order to ratify the chemical weapons Convention, which we have already signed. As host to the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific, my delegation wishes to emphasize the need for institutional arrangements for the strengthening of the World Disarmament Campaign. The Kathmandu Centre has contributed to international, regional and subregional dialogue aimed at transparency and confidence-building in the areas of disarmament and security. In his annual report on the work of the United Nations, the Secretary-General notes that the past year witnessed a determined effort by the international community to take action to end the scourge of terrorism. I would like to reaffirm the commitment of Nepal to the Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism adopted by the General Assembly two years ago. The reform of the Security Council is considered necessary to make that crucial organ of the United Nations more reflective of contemporary realities. We agree that any expansion of the Security Council must accommodate the interests and concerns of the bulk of the total membership, to redress the existing imbalance and anomalous representation. Any agreed formula for expansion, in our view, must take into account the issue of equitable global representativity. The selection of the members of an expanded Security Council should be guided by the contribution of Member States to the maintenance of international peace and security. Having said that, I want to emphasize that since the Security Council is the principal instrument of the international community in the area of collective security, no expansion or reform should diminish in any way its capacity for prompt and effective action to maintain international peace and security. The establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO) following the conclusion of the Uruguay Round has made it clear that no country can ignore the globalization process, which is gaining tremendous momentum. At the same time, the acceleration of this process of global economic integration has failed to narrow the gap between the developed and the developing countries. The economic situation of many countries of Africa and the least developed countries is further deteriorating, and those countries are being marginalized because of unfavourable conditions prevailing in the global market in the trade of their exportable products. Furthermore, those countries lack national capacity in terms of technology and product development capability and also face various tariff and non-tariff barriers to their exports abroad. The situation of the landlocked developing countries among the least developed countries is further exacerbated by the high costs associated with the production and transportation of their exportable commodities and their difficulty in maintaining the tight delivery schedules demanded by the global market. Without direct access to the sea and given the absence of a significant market base within their boundaries, those landlocked countries cannot offer any of the comparative advantages so essential to attracting foreign investment. Additional financial resources and the transfer of appropriate technology, accompanied by concrete measures to offset those built-in handicaps, are the bare minimum requirements. We expect that the WTO ministerial meeting at Singapore will take this reality into account and ensure that the 16 products of the least developed countries are given free and unrestricted access to world markets in order to facilitate the integration of those countries into the liberalizing and globalizing world economy. It is with great distress that the developing countries, and in particular the least developed countries, witness the steep decline in the resources of United Nations operational activities for development. The least developed countries need the enhanced support of those agencies more than ever, since most of them have embarked on far-reaching reforms. In the absence of the flows of direct foreign investment now available to many developing countries, the least developed countries that lack basic physical infrastructure and material resources have nowhere else to turn. The efforts of the organs of the United Nations system engaged in providing technical and advisory assistance to the least developed countries, particularly the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), need to be supplemented adequately by the Bretton Woods institutions and regional financial institutions to arrest and reverse the declining economic and social situation of the least developed countries. The solidarity of the support received from the representatives of the Non-Aligned Movement and the Group of 77 during the recently concluded ministerial meeting of least developed countries is an expression of understanding and an acknowledgment of the responsibility of the international community to the least developed countries. We are confident that the emphasis given by the leaders of the Group of Seven at the Lyon Summit on the need to assist the least developed countries and to integrate them in the global economy will be backed by concrete actions. South-South cooperation is another important component of international economic cooperation that should be further explored and promoted. The Government of Costa Rica deserves our appreciation for its generous offer to host a South-South conference on finance, trade and investment in January next year. In recent years we have witnessed a decline in the economic conditions of more and more people, especially those from the developing countries, who now comprise a population of 1.3 billion people living in poverty. The Declaration of the year 1996 as the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty and the Declaration of the first United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty, beginning in 1997, must be taken seriously if poverty is to be eradicated with renewed vigour and dedication. The eradication of poverty must be a priority agenda for all multilateral development institutions. In this regard, we express our appreciation to the Secretary-General for his initiative to establish, through the Administrative Committee on Coordination, inter- agency task forces to oversee coherent implementation by the United Nations system of various cross-sectoral issues covered in recent major international conferences. It is heartening to note that one of the task forces, which is on the creation of an enabling environment, is chaired by the World Bank. We look forward to the reports of the task forces, which are expected in April 1997. We are confident that the special session of the General Assembly on the Rio Declaration to be held in June of next year will be successful in achieving the objective of acquiring new and additional resources to implement Agenda 21. We urge the developed countries to honour the commitments they have made at major international conferences, including those at Rio, Cairo, Copenhagen, Beijing and Istanbul. We are deeply concerned at the declining level of official development assistance to developing countries, in particular the least developed countries. We are happy to see that the Framework Convention on Climate Change has entered into force and is being implemented effectively. We are at the same time concerned about the Convention on Biological Diversity, which has not been ratified by many countries. I am especially pleased to say that the Parliament of Nepal has already ratified the International Convention to Combat Desertification. We are firmly committed to the Charter obligation to promote and protect fundamental human rights for all, without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion. My delegation is closely following the negotiations that are taking place in the Third Committee working group established to oversee the recommendations of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. The Fourth World Conference on Women was a landmark in reaffirming the equal rights of women, and focused our attention on the important aspect of the equal participation of men and women in development activities. We in Nepal are serious about implementing the outcome of that Conference, with the creation, initially, of a separate Ministry of Women and Social Welfare. 17 Political strife, ethnic conflicts and the denial of basic human rights in many parts of the world have resulted in an influx of a large number of refugees, mostly women and children. We express our appreciation to the High Commissioner for Refugees for her untiring and continued efforts to take care of refugees around the world, despite the limited resources at her disposal. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) deserves our special praise for providing necessary food and other services to some 100,000 refugees in the camps in eastern Nepal. His Majesty’s Government of Nepal upholds the right of every refugee to return to his or her homeland safely and with dignity. The Government will make every effort to solve the problem of refugees from Bhutan through mutual discussion and understanding. As a critical part of our broad policy of peace, cooperation and friendship with all countries of the world on the basis of the Charter of the United Nations and the principle of non-alignment, Nepal is pursuing a policy of promoting regional cooperation and understanding under the umbrella of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). We celebrated the tenth anniversary of the Association last year. The seven countries of the Association are engaged in various areas of cooperation, including the suppression of terrorism and drug abuse, environmental preservation, poverty alleviation and the promotion of regional trade. It is a fact that SAARC is far behind other similar regional cooperation arrangements, but the countries of the Association, particularly Nepal, are persevering in their determination to develop both the habit and concrete measures of cooperation, understanding and peace among the South Asian partners.﻿The opening of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, under the presidency of Ambassador Razili, takes place at the very moment a large number of States have entered into new commitments on the long road to nuclear disarmament. Our signature, this very morning, of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is another opportunity for Belgium to reiterate its determination to contribute to the fight against nuclear proliferation. I am very happy that this important step was taken today. It should inspire us to continue our common effort towards universal acceptance of this new international instrument, as well as an effective implementation of the international verification measures it provides. My Irish colleague, Minister Dick Spring, has spoken on behalf of the European Union, whose objectives and concerns my country shares. Belgium endeavours to contribute substantially to the definition and implementation of the policies and plans of action which the European Union intends to carry out throughout the world. Our intentions before this Assembly should aim to go beyond formalities. Diplomatic language all too often hides our inability to act or our lack of real compassion. The citizens of the world are fearful as we come to the end of the century. Whatever their country, people are confronted with a new anxiety, a fear of tomorrow, without even realizing that these feelings are shared by the entire world. In numerous regions of the world, this is a fear of physical danger. It is a fear of external threats, aggression and civil war. People die in the same way in Africa, Asia, America and Europe. People are killed for the same dreams and mutilated in body and spirit by the barbarism of modern weaponry and criminal madness born of hatred. Yes, our world is fearful in the face of all these violations of fundamental human rights which persist notwithstanding the major conferences proclaiming our hope and belief in a world where the rights of men, women and children are respected. In such a world respect for humanitarian law need no longer be questioned. The crises felt by rich countries cannot possibly compare with the tragic consequences of war and underdevelopment. Yet the crises in Europe, in our prosperous societies, also constitute a humanitarian deficit. They are also the symptoms — albeit of a different nature — of the same ills of modern times. These include contempt for the human person as a subject of law and his reduction to mere merchandise. Today, society everywhere is in crisis. The logic of the market seems to be an exclusionary mechanism which segregates society. As the Mexican poet Octavio Paz once wrote, “The society of consumption has chilled human life with its glacial waters of selfish calculation.” This dehumanization of mankind for financial profit is the primary cause of many scourges which affect our planet, irrespective of the traditions and political systems that characterize each and every region of the world. In this respect the inertia of individuals transformed into consumers rather than dynamic actors comes to mind, as do the problems of unemployment, the scourges of trade in human beings, child prostitution, organ trading, drugs and all other international criminal activities. These calamities of modern times require the international community to put in place effective mechanisms by which we can combat them together. As I said during the World Congress Against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children, which was held in Stockholm last August, we must join efforts, wills, means and resources to eliminate and prevent the proliferation of these activities on our planet. The behaviour of those who profit from such cruel treatment 0 of human beings must be punished by the international community. Belgium strongly believes that the provisions of the Stockholm declaration and programme of action to criminalize the sexual exploitation of children should be translated into new treaty obligations for all States. The ongoing negotiations on the adoption of the optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child seem to me the appropriate forum to reach this goal. The protection of children in this field should equally inspire us to a creative and courageous approach in other United Nations forums where the question of international criminalization of the trade in human beings is dealt with. The Stockholm declaration and programme of action should therefore be reflected in the texts we adopt during the fifty- first session of the General Assembly in order to strengthen the protection of the rights of the child and to condemn strongly the exploitation of children. This year, the International Day for the Abolition of Slavery, 2 December 1996, will be devoted to the trade in human beings. The whole world should endeavour to bring this horrendous scandal to an end. Although we must tackle these social problems, our action should first be introspective in order for it to be credible and efficient. How can modern society be reconciled with the globalization of cultures and trade? How can the balance between the resources of rich countries and the needs of poor countries be restored? The freedom of the market cannot be absolute, lest it become an absurdity. Our societies can only be viable if they result from a balance between the freedom of the individual and the fundamental rights of the other. The unfortunate evolution of our consumer society and the abandonment of humanist values could lead us — as the events of this summer in my country have shown — to a society where murder and rape become commonplace for some and where abuse is tolerated for too long. We must therefore reconstruct our list of moral priorities and crate a new international moral code based on simple, readily implemented priorities. Peace, non-violence and acceptance of the other head the list, followed by sharing and social solidarity. Man needs to be reconciled with modern times, reclaiming his central role as subject and actor rather than object and merchandise. These values also should determine the relations between rich and poor countries. Finally, our children should be trained to be involved, responsible citizens, conscious of the consequences of their actions on society. I believe that the formulation of a new international moral code is necessary if we are to overcome our fears and rediscover our will to act — to fulfil our moral duty to take an optimistic approach to international cooperation. This is why preventive diplomacy must be one of our top priorities. Belgium neither can nor wants to ignore the need to turn its attention to the South, to Africa in particular. We must overcome the desperation of certain situations and do everything within our means to finally allow the development of justice, social progress and democracy in Africa. The situation is extremely troublesome and warrants our basing our political action on the essential priorities, which are, in fact, challenges to be overcome. What are these challenges? to avoid new fratricidal wars and genocide; to ensure that in existing conflicts international humanitarian law is respected; and to guarantee the reconstruction and sustainable development of the continent with full respect for human rights and the rule of law. We should develop our policies while keeping in mind the fundamental relationships that must be constructed between these complementary objectives. In particular, I am thinking of former President Nyerere’s work in Central Africa. Our support for this work shows our willingness to cooperate with the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the countries of the region in trying, together, to find solutions to the present crisis and to prevent hatred, death and the ravages of destruction from overrunning Africa, which is dear to us. Belgium supports the convening of a conference on security and stability in the Great Lakes region. The appointment of Mr. Ajello as Special Envoy of the European Union and of Ambassador Haesendonck as Belgian Special Envoy to the region shows the willingness of the European Union and Belgium to address these concerns. For 1996 and 1997, the Belgian Government has made financial resources available to support the efforts under way. The survival of the populations of Burundi and Rwanda and of the Kivu people in Zaire is at stake, as well as the security and prosperity of Central Africa as a whole. Within the framework of a policy of conflict prevention which the European Union, in cooperation with the OAU, is trying to elaborate, the Western European Union (WEU), of which Belgium currently 1 holds the chairmanship, is also prepared to offer logistical support to African peacekeeping operations. The WEU’s fact-finding mission to Ethiopia, Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya returned with strong conclusions, and we intend to pursue the recommended course of action during our chairmanship. My country, which for years has participated in stand-by agreements, must review the mechanisms that might be established to improve the functioning of these agreements. In this context, I wish to recall our willingness to support logistically and financially any possible contingency planning for Burundi. Possibly in a revised form, the agreements reached in Arusha last 25 June and 31 July should allow support for the normalization efforts in Burundi. This option would clearly be preferred to any other possible solution. The Belgian Government would like to confirm here its political will to be associated with this possible assistance to the security of Burundi, taking into account the modalities that are yet to be defined. However, it is my deepest wish that the Burundi authorities and all active parties in that country will find the road to national reconciliation and peace, to a system of government which guarantees equitable representation and real protection of minorities. I wish to recall that Security Council resolution 1072 (1996) of 30 August demands that these negotiations be initiated before 31 October. Belgium’s preventive diplomacy efforts should also be seen in the framework of European Union initiatives to promote the development of these new societies. The presidential, legislative, regional and local elections to be held in Zaire in 1997 are an opportunity for the Belgian Government and the European Union to show their active solidarity within the framework of collective electoral assistance, which must be coordinated by the United Nations. In order to organize this electoral assistance, I would hope that a representative of the Secretary-General could be appointed as soon as possible. Zaire’s people have the right to participate knowledgeably in free and fair elections. The international community has the obligation to facilitate the democratic process in Zaire. The Belgian Government is aware of the difficulty of arriving at a global approach to the problems of the South, and of Central Africa in particular. We do not believe that we should impose upon other countries any system of government or dictate the way to achieve this. But we must insist on the concept of good governance. That is, there should be systems of government with checks and balances, which guarantee the free exercise of the civil, political, social and cultural rights of the people, and which enhance the development of a free and dynamic society — the only way to ensure harmonious and sustainable development. Preventive diplomacy is meaningless if weapons remain available to extremist groups who seek, by the suppression of others and by 'ethnic cleansing', solutions to problems which should only be found in dialogue, consensus and political negotiation. The United Nations Register of Conventional Arms is an essential element in making the arms trade transparent, a goal which my country and others support. Since its inception, Belgium has provided the arms Register with the information requested. The extension of the Register to other categories of arms is extremely desirable. The Belgian Government believes nevertheless that, for now, the main priority should be making the Register universal. We, together with our partners of the European Union, will continue to concentrate our efforts on this aspect. Anti-personnel mines are particularly inhumane weapons. Belgium is tirelessly pursuing, in every international forum, its objective of total and universal prohibition of anti-personnel mines. The Belgian Government regrets that very little progress has been made to date. Next October we will participate in the Ottawa conference which, I hope, will be able to give a significant boost to the achievement of our objectives. When preventive diplomacy and arms control cannot keep peace, peacekeeping missions become necessary. In our view, these peacekeeping and peace-restoration missions remain one of the primary responsibilities of the United Nations. The Belgian Government has taken part in various peacekeeping operations and is assuming military leadership of the United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium (UNTAES). I am convinced that the success of UNTAES will contribute significantly to the re-establishment of a society which we hope will be pluralist, tolerant and peaceful. Last year, the General Framework Agreement, negotiated in Dayton and signed in Paris led to the establishment, under United Nations auspices, of the NATO-led implementation force (IFOR). My country is, with its partners, part of this peacekeeping operation whose role is to be a force for solidarity, reconstruction and hope for a new Europe. The recent elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina allow us to look toward the future with a degree of optimism. The increase in number and size of peacekeeping operations that has characterized the recent history of our 2 Organization has allowed the development of political concepts and given a new dimension to international military cooperation. It has also allowed for positive and necessary developments in the field of international humanitarian law. The Belgian Government hopes that the recent agreement between the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and the Secretariat on the applicability of humanitarian law to peacekeeping operations will permit a swift adoption of the lines of conduct to this effect. This is indispensable and should be welcomed unreservedly by all troop-contributing countries. For peacekeeping operations to succeed they must be followed up by rehabilitation programmes. Obviously, these programmes, which are meant to eliminate the potential causes of new conflicts, must be developed in a climate of peace that ensures respect for human rights. This fin de siècle is characterized by the size and urgency of rehabilitation operations and by humanitarian intervention and aid. Despite exceptional crises situations, we must not forget the importance of implementing global and sustainable development. The major thematic conferences of the United Nations were designed to establish a strategy for the growth of the human being. I believe that the effective implementation of the moral and political decisions taken at these major conferences is fully in keeping with the new moral code that I hope to see emerge. In this context, I would like to mention the efforts to reform United Nations institutions and, in particular, the quest for efficiency and sound financial management that should be the watchword of the functioning of our organizations. I began my statement today by denouncing fear and with a plea for a new international moral code. I would like to conclude an observation that I made at the outset: that words are hollow if they are mere figures of speech and diplomatic formulas. Our words must be alive, and they must spring from peace, silence and complete transparency. Only then will we be able to understand the language of the many children, women and men afflicted by underdevelopment, war and indifference. ﻿On behalf of the State of Kuwait, it gives me great pleasure to extend to Mr. Razali our sincere congratulations on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. Given his personal experience and wisdom, we believe that he will be able to guide our discussions efficiently towards a successful conclusion. Since he represents a sister Muslim country, I am particularly pleased to take this opportunity to underscore the firm bonds of brotherhood in Islam between Malaysia and Kuwait. I am pleased to use this occasion also, to pay tribute to the President of the previous session of the Assembly for his outstanding efforts and contributions during that historic session. Kuwait views with pride and acknowledgement the impressive performance of the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, especially his leading role in and commitment to the enhancement of the functioning of the world Organization in the areas of global peace, security and development. Mr. Boutros- Ghali has consistently worked to restructure the United Nations to bring it more into line with the aspirations and expectations attached to it. I want to make special mention of the concrete steps the Secretary-General has taken to curb and rationalize expenditures, to streamline the administrative structure, and to reorganize the Secretariat in order to reflect current realities in the global arena. Hence, Kuwait subscribes to the position adopted by the League of Arab States and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in supporting the Secretary- General’s bid to remain on board in order to pursue his reform programme for the revitalization of the United Nations. 19 Last year, the family of nations observed the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations against a backdrop of universal recognition of the wonderful achievements of the United Nations system. The record includes, to cite only a few areas: assistance in the attainment of national independence by many States; the establishment of the principles contained in the Charter, including the right to self-determination; the consolidation of codes of civilized conduct among States; the upholding of justice and equality; and the promotion of economic and social development. Perhaps the most shining success of the United Nations is the peacekeeping operations it carries out in many volatile regions of the world. Such operations have recently assumed a new humanitarian dimension in the form of relief efforts in cases of natural disasters and civil war, and election monitoring. We view the United Nations as a forum for debating the future of humankind among nations, with a view to promoting the well-being, dignity and basic freedoms of the human person. The ever-increasing complexity of contemporary life in this global village and the ever- changing set of common and pressing issues which continue to emerge require a concerted international effort through the United Nations. By the same token, we must admit that there are gargantuan challenges that continue to face the United Nations, most poignantly the ethnic and regional conflicts that endanger regional stability and the international security system. Other pressing issues include the population explosion, environmental degradation, the water shortage, desertification, the food deficit, the growing gap between the North and the South, the regional arms race, the threat posed by nuclear weapons, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, development concerns, barriers to economic and trade cooperation, the removal of restrictions on free trade and, last but not least, human rights. To rally all States members of the world community round ways to deal with the fundamental transformations that face the world, we must: believe in the energy, potential and mechanisms of the United nations system to be able to address global concerns in a multilateral fashion; provide enthusiastic financial, political and moral support for the United Nations and identify with its principles and purposes; fully pay assessed contributions to the United Nations budget; and actively pursue a genuinely peaceful policy that recognizes and respects the rights and legitimate concerns of other Member States, with a view to building up a regional order in line with the norms of international behaviour. Accordingly, regional arrangements should be anchored in the established codes of justice and rules of international law and treaties. Here we must ensure respect for human rights, and protect human dignity and the freedom of choice. In this context, human development without discrimination is essential for the overall economic and social development of society. Top priority should be given to this goal rather than to squandering national resources on weaponry. We must face up to terrorism and muster the national will to work collectively on a global level to stamp out the root causes of this plague which afflicts both the weak and the strong, the poor and the rich, for, in the final analysis, terrorism is not susceptible to reason; it stems from bigotry, traumatizes the innocent, resorts to violence and seeks no dialogue. Against this backdrop, the indisputable fact remains that today’s world is interdependent in its security as well as in its general concerns. The affluent few may not be able to live in exclusive comfort while a majority of humankind is marginalized in deprivation and poverty. Here emerges the stark need for a collective conceptual and material effort to develop a common agenda for the benefit of all human beings. It is from this perspective that we view the significance of the revitalization and refashioning of United Nations organs to keep abreast of the rapid development of international relations. In this context, Kuwait is following closely the ongoing discussions in the Open-Ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council. We had hoped that consensus would have been reached on the restructuring and reform of the Security Council to coincide with the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations last year. Failure to attain that goal so far should not dampen our hopes. Rather, we should redouble our efforts towards that end. Our aim should be a Security Council whose work and procedures are more transparent. Its resolutions should reflect more faithfully the will of the universal membership of the United Nations. Its composition should be expanded to reflect the recent increase in membership, sovereign equality among States and the equitable geographical distribution of seats among the various regional groups. Any reform of the Security Council must in the end ensure collective efforts by both members of the Council and other members of the international community to respect and implement its resolutions. The Council should be able to demonstrate its firm resolve against any regime that does not comply with Council resolutions. 20 A textbook case in point is the just position towards the Iraqi regime adopted by the Council and supported by the international community as a whole. As recently as 23 June 1996, leaders of Arab States, in the final statement issued at the end of the extraordinary Arab Summit in Cairo, urged the Iraqi Government: “not to embark on any aggressive policies aimed at provoking its Arab neighbours and to implement in full all the relevant Security Council resolutions and especially those requiring it to take the necessary measures to release all Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners and detainees, to return the property seized and to comply with the compensation mechanism. They regard this as the right way to ensure that the sanctions imposed on Iraq are lifted and the appropriate conditions created for Iraq to resume its role in the inter-Arab regional order.” (A/50/986, appendix, p. 7) This statement shows a recognition by the Arab leaders of the nature of the Iraqi regime and their appreciation for the importance of the full implementation of all relevant Security Council resolutions. Hence, Iraq must cooperate sincerely with the International Committee of the Red Cross in order to account for all Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners and detainees, so that the chapter on this human tragedy can be closed. We must note with regret here that the Tripartite Commission, which meets every three months in Geneva, and its Technical Subcommittee, which meets monthly on issues relating to the border between Iraq and Kuwait, have so far gotten nowhere. In point of fact, the Iraqi regime exploits such meetings for propaganda purposes. I must reiterate here that this question of prisoners and hostages remains a human tragedy precipitated by the Iraqi regime. And it remains a top-priority humanitarian issue for the people and Government of Kuwait. The Iraqi regime is legally bound to cooperate with the United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) in eliminating its arsenal of weapons of mass destruction. UNSCOM's bitter experience shows that the Iraqi regime will not pass up any opportunity to use it for deception, misinformation and the concealment of required data. It even went so far as to block repeatedly the work of UNSCOM inspectors as recently as March, June and August of this year, thus prompting the Security Council to adopt resolution 1060 (1996) in addition to presidential statements issued by way of warning to the Iraqi regime. Kuwait, keen as it is on ensuring the safety and stability of the region, supports UNSCOM efforts. Indeed, we commend UNSCOM for its resolve and its insistence on the absolute necessity of implementing all provisions relating to the liquidation of Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction. Given the human suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq emanating from the policies of the ruling regime, Kuwait continues to provide humanitarian relief assistance in kind to the Iraqi refugees. We also welcomed the accord reached between Iraq and the United Nations on the implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995) as a step forward towards alleviating the suffering of the Iraqi people. Let me take this occasion to reiterate Kuwait’s position that Iraq’s unity and territorial integrity must be preserved. In the meantime, we understand — indeed appreciate — all measures taken by the Coalition States in order to ensure the full implementation by Iraq of all relevant Security Council resolutions. The essence and thrust of these resolutions is the evolution of a regional order anchored in the established principles of justice and stability, the rule of law, observance of the norms of international behaviour, and respect for international treaties, at the core of which is the Charter of the United Nations. In view of Kuwait’s concern for peace and security in the Arabian Gulf region, and by virtue of our close relations with our sister State, the United Arab Emirates, and with our friendly neighbour, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Kuwait associates itself with the position of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) regarding the issue of the islands. Kuwait calls upon the two parties to continue their negotiations in a bid to reach a just and peaceful settlement through dialogue. On another regional matter, Kuwait fully supports the sister State of Bahrain in the recent measures it took to combat terrorism with a view to consolidating its security and stability. Our position is in harmony with the principle that the GCC member States have a common destiny, and their security and stability are therefore indivisible. Kuwait has been following with grave concern the stalling of the Middle East peace process following the election of a new Government in Israel, which adopted a series of positions that contradict the arrangements worked out in Madrid, primarily the land-for-peace 21 formula and the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) towards a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. The recent Cairo summit document underscored the adherence by the Arab States to the peace process, in order to achieve the ultimate goal of a just and comprehensive peace, as a strategic option under the umbrella of international law. The Arab position requires a matching commitment by Israel to work in a sincere and forthright fashion all the way through until the overall peace process is completed. This must include the restoration of rights and the return of occupied territories, as well as ensuring security and a strategic balance of all States of the region, in accordance with the principles laid down in Madrid. For the record, let me recall in this context that Kuwait put the question of Palestine among its top concerns. In point of fact, that issue has been central to our relations with other members of the international community. We have channelled enormous effort and resources into this cause, since Kuwait has always believed that Israel has not recognized the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people to self-determination and statehood — let alone the fact that it has seized Palestinian territory in total disregard of United Nations resolutions and by using force as a means of imposing faits accomplis. We demand that the Israeli Government stop its settlement activities in the Palestinian territories, especially in the Holy City of Jerusalem, and that it cease forthwith all changes to its Arab character and legal status. The refugee problem must also be resolved according to United Nations resolutions. Finally, a Palestinian state must be established with Jerusalem as its capital, in accordance with the will of the Palestinian people. In this context, we condemn the steps taken by Israel in commissioning and excavating a tunnel under the western wall of the Al-Aqsa Mosque. This constitutes a desecration of that holy site and is a provocation to the people of Palestine — indeed to all Arabs and Muslims throughout the world. The use of great force and violence by Israel has left many people dead or wounded. We demand that Israel put an immediate end to these practices and that it fulfil its obligations to preserve the Arabic and Islamic character of these holy places. Lasting and comprehensive peace requires mutual accommodation of the parties’ rights, compliance with accords concluded, action in good faith, avoidance of provocative acts, and long-term vision — all with a view not to inflict injury on any major party to the peace equation. Withdrawal by Israel from the Golan is a litmus test of its good intentions to achieve a just and balanced peace. Therefore, Kuwait supports Syria’s position that negotiations should resume from the point at which they ceased, in view of the fact that the peace process is a continuum that should not stop before reaching its ultimate destination. Kuwait also supports Lebanon in its legitimate insistence that Israel must fulfil all provisions of Security Council resolution 425 (1978), under which Israel must withdraw fully and unconditionally from all Lebanese territory under occupation. We believe that, in the final analysis, world peace is indivisible and that consequently, the question of global security has worldwide ramifications. Hence we think that the issues of ethnic strife and civil war should remain on the international agenda. Thus, we welcome the peaceful measures taken thus far in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a view to bringing that tragedy to an end while ensuring that the people of that Republic are accorded their legitimate rights. We also welcome the outcome of the recently held elections there and congratulate President Alija Izetbegovic´ on the well- deserved confidence placed in him. We also call upon the international community to pursue its efforts towards ending the current tragedies that afflict Somalia, Afghanistan and Burundi. In the same vein, we hope that the peoples of those countries will be responsive to the efforts of the international community. Kuwait notes with satisfaction the success of the United Nations earlier this month in the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which is the culmination of a long-standing universal effort and of hopes for a safer world. Indeed, the CTBT represents an essential step forward on the path towards the elimination of nuclear weapons. Cooperation among member States of the international community in the economic and trade spheres has engendered a welcome openness following the conclusion of the world free trade agreement. We hope that this accord will expand the volume of the developing countries’ exports to the world markets. Kuwait was in the vanguard of advocating the removal of trade barriers simply because we believe that, in the 22 context of an interdependent globe, collective political security cannot be isolated from the economic concerns of nations. Against this background, we welcome the steps already taken by some developing countries to readjust their economic approaches towards genuine openness and the adoption of free-market policies. In our view, this type of restructuring will help attract foreign investments and accelerate the transfer of technology, which, in the end, will foster international economic relations in terms of generating a freer cash flow, a better investment environment and an increase in joint ventures. Kuwait believes in the need to harness human energies to narrow the gaps that exist among nations, based on a common understanding of the tenets that underpin world security and economic well-being. We also believe that dialogue and the tolerant exchange of views, coupled with sincere and determined joint action, will lay a solid foundation for improved international relations. Under this scenario, the good forces will combine to neutralize the evil ones; the “haves” and the “have-nots” might stand a better chance of interacting beneficially; reason and prudence will reign supreme, while the outlaws, saboteurs and vicious tyrants will continue to lose ground. In the end, living conditions will improve under a new world order based on the principles of justice, which promote peace and security for all.  ﻿Allow me to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your well-deserved election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-first regular session. I also wish to convey our appreciation to Ambassador Diogo Freitas do Amaral for the skill and efficiency with which he conducted the work of the General Assembly in the course of its last regular session. We are very close to the achievement of peace in my country. This can already be felt in the silence of the guns and the newly flourishing spirit of unity among brothers. Intolerance is giving way to awareness of the common challenges we face. We now realize that, for example, if we are to combat corruption and impunity, we need to share values and principles, though not necessarily ideologies. United in diversity, we must discover our own means for building our future. Our country is healing its deep wounds and revealing its true face, as a generous land that is the home to age-old cultures. Guatemala is coming to terms with itself and, in so doing, is reconciling itself with the world. We are once again speaking as a friendly nation among friendly nations. The peace process has enabled us to evolve our own agenda, which responds to the needs of our country without our having had to accept an agenda imposed by anyone else. To that end we have received the constant support of the international community, and in particular of the United Nations system. Today, at a time when the reform of the system is the subject of such intense discussion, our national experience may perhaps be useful, as it is an example of cooperation that is at once respectful and dynamic, based fundamentally on internal efforts with appropriate external help. For us this approach is indispensable since, to a large extent, it has been possible to build peace, thanks to the valuable and diverse forms of support received from agencies of the United Nations system. But this has not been effected through the mechanical application of preconceived formulas, or of automatic institutional moulds. On the contrary, what we have here is a challenging and complex empirical laboratory where all of us are learning step by step. It is, in fact, a constant exercise in discovery with living social tissues, an exercise in which we have all had to pool our best efforts. The creativity of individuals, Governments, and various organizations — private and public, local and national, regional and multilateral — has come together to produce a constant quest for the solutions we need. It has been an exercise in international solidarity that, complementing internal endeavours, has made it possible for us to forge ahead along the right path to recovery. But the test tube is the life of our people, and for that reason there is little margin for error. Errors increase the suffering of my people. And Guatemala has suffered greatly from authoritarian intervention and the imposition of alien patterns that once impaired a political and social maturation process that sought to infuse its own life- giving fluids with contemporary ideas of equity and democracy. Domestic injustices and imbalances were aggravated by the tensions of the cold war that exploded within my country. 3 Now is the time for reconciliation. Now is the time once again to take development in hand. Now is the time to search for effective formulas to link our villages with the World Trade Organization; to link the poverty afflicting the families of our neighbourhoods with international financial institutions; and to link decisions independently taken at the level of our domestic communities with the large development agencies. We are on the threshold of signing the peace. We look forward to this historic transition with hope and jubilation, and we foresee the complex stage of strengthening the fabric of society and production. From that stage we can look hopefully to the future. Peace will come to Guatemala because we Guatemalans have striven for it and because the international community has helped us along the way. As is well known, last week in Mexico City the parties signed the agreement on the last substantive item of the agenda agreed upon in the peace talks, the one concerning the strengthening of civilian power and the role of the army in a democratic society. We now have to deal with the operational issues: demobilization, reinsertion into civil society, the cease-fire and the timetable for the implementation of the agreements. In the course of this year we shall initial, God willing, the final agreement for a firm and lasting peace, which will put an end to an armed conflict that has lasted 36 years. It is worth emphasizing then, that for the last five months there has been no armed confrontation, which has allowed the peace talks to progress without subjecting our negotiators to the anguish and pressure of knowing that as they are working Guatemalan blood is being shed. That is over. Far from deadening or delaying the dialogue, this state of affairs has stimulated it, given the prospect of a definitive cessation of hostilities. This has also stimulated us to see clearly where we are going and to gain a more profound understanding of what has happened. As many of the representatives in this Assembly know, the internal conflict caused great misfortune and suffering for our people. I am referring primarily to the irreparable loss of thousands of lives. I also have in mind the traumatic aftermath of the conflict, which is evident in the faces of every cripple, orphan and widow, and in every surviving family, a number of which were eye-witnesses to the tragedies. I am also referring to the economic losses, in the form of damage to infrastructure and lost opportunities for productive development. I also wish to call to mind the set-backs caused by the conflict. Let us recall the words of the singer- songwriter who asked, “Who will return to us the fatherland that could have been?” While more difficult to pinpoint, and perhaps impossible to measure, these too are irreparable losses: all that we could have done, but did not do; all the growth that could have occurred, but did not occur; all we could have built, but did not build. While others were progressing, we were stagnating, locked in a cruel domestic struggle that included elements imported from the cold war, which arbitrarily kept in check for 40 years our political, social and economic evolution. While technological, commercial and political changes were taking place in the rest of the world, and nations were discovering new opportunities in their relations, we were plunged deeper into the violence of a domestic conflict that took the lives of thousands and thousands of young people, who were unable to provide their country with the fruits of their talents and endeavours. While new international options for well- being were blossoming elsewhere, we continued to be consumed internally by a dirty war that crushed entire villages and compelled many people to flee. There is a part of our country that never came into being, because Guatemalans were bogged down in fratricidal domestic struggle that we were not able to stop in time — an internal conflict that — it is true — was fuelled by our own injustice, but — it must be acknowledged — was also fanned from abroad. But such is history: hope springs up amid tragedy, and lessons are drawn from mistakes. Our people has an extraordinary capacity for recovery and learning. We are nearing the end of this stage, and another has already begun: one in which all of us — absolutely all — are responsible and committed. One of the consequences of this deeply traumatic and protracted conflict is that never before have we found ourselves in a situation so propitious for dialogue and reconciliation. Never before have we shared such a profound and keen awareness of our immense multi-ethnic, multilingual and multicultural wealth, or of our environment, which is extraordinarily varied. Never before have we been so keenly aware of our need for internal integration and for the development of our own potential. 4 We have within our grasp a unique opportunity, one that will never recur, to transform this moment into a moment for the future and for renovation. This is perhaps not the appropriate occasion for detailing all the progress made in recent months. Such details may be found in the various reports of United Nations Mission for the Verification of Human Rights and of Compliance with the Commitments of the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights in Guatemala (MINUGUA) and other agencies of the United Nations system. But it is worthwhile to stress the enormous effort that has gone into fulfilling the agreements already signed, even before most of them have come into force. In particular, we have had remarkable successes in the field of human rights, as has been recognized by various commissions and subcommissions dealing with the issue. At this singular moment at the end of the century, when we are celebrating the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People, it is fitting to point out that Guatemala has recently ratified and deposited International Labour Organization Convention 169, the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, which strengthens the rule of law in Guatemala by conferring benefits and guarantees on the Mayan population with regard to property, conditions of employment, training for professions, crafts and rural industries, health, social security, education, the administration of justice, the environment and the proper and rational use of natural resources. We are very close to the signature of an Agreement on a Firm and Lasting Peace. We now face the hardest part of our task, but also the most challenging part, replete with possibilities: that of creating peace, of building peace. We would do well, therefore, to recall two fundamental points: first, the peace that we are striving to build has a specific orientation; and, secondly, peace is not made only by those who sign the agreements. We seek a peace that is well oriented. We should not be content with a precarious peace, or with political accommodations made for the occasion, with no sense of direction or permanence. The accords signed so far, and those that are to follow, express basic agreements that, taken as a whole, constitute a specific agenda aimed at deepening democracy and furthering development. Furthermore, peace is not made only by those who sign the agreements. Peace is made on a day-to-day basis, by the entire population, which takes seriously the need for reconciliation and realizes optimistically that it is possible to have fair opportunities to work, educate oneself, be productive and improve one’s situation. Peace is built by men and women of flesh and blood, with their differences, passions, interests and enmities. Peace is built day by day, in villages, hamlets, neighbourhoods and communities. Peace is built through ordinary coexistence, with all Guatemalans, male or female, striving daily to make a living and to help their families get ahead, seeking out better opportunities while enduring hardships in a country with so many limitations and so much distrust. That is where reconciliation must take place and where we must identify the true enemies of peace: poverty, discrimination, exclusion and intolerance. We live in a spirit of solidarity within a fragile shared space. Our mission is to care for it and improve it as a legacy for coming generations. That space, that possibility, does not belong to us; it is but a legacy of what former generations did or failed to do. Solidarity is not limited to those who stand before us; there is a kind of solidarity that embraces even those who have not yet been born. What can we do to ensure that this solidarity accepts life as a primary, elementary and basic value, when we have lived for so long immersed in violence? We will attain development when we become capable of providing comprehensive security for all Guatemalans. The assurance that our children will not die because of negligence or lack of medical attention, the security of a stable job, plans and facilities for the acquisition of housing, security of access to a competitive educational system allowing us to learn and to teach our children, the security of ample nutrition, security for our possessions and for our lives, access to and equal treatment under impartial and timely systems of justice — these are the key aspects of comprehensive security. In this regard, Central America has taken important decisions to renew its agendas under the Alliance for Sustainable Development, which it is taking decisive steps to implement, including through the Treaty on Democratic Security signed by the Presidents of the isthmus at San Pedro Sula in December 1995. That broad set of commitments prepares Central Americans to wage a comprehensive fight against trafficking in drugs and in human beings. There can be no stable democracy over the long term if there are extreme inequalities in the distribution of wealth and of social opportunities. Democratic citizenship 5 poses the question of how we are to incorporate those who are unlikely to have access to public institutions; those who, because of poverty or discrimination, cannot invoke their rights or have them recognized. No democracy is possible when a significant percentage of the population is living in extreme poverty. Our democracy must generate economic conditions that permit the satisfaction of the basic needs of the population. The greatest challenge and the greatest opportunity for Guatemala resides in organized, realistic and coherent implementation of the commitments derived from the agreements undertaken. That is why we must understand them as a starting point that opens up a new page of challenges and efforts for all the population. For its part, the Government has taken on some very daring and far-reaching commitments that encompass almost all its institutions. They imply major legal reforms and major budgetary efforts. These commitments have made it possible to reach the agreements, and stability and the strengthening of peace and stability depend upon their fulfilment. But to do all of this, we also need the understanding and firm support of the international community. We need a real opening of markets and fair prices for our products, as well as foreign investment to add to the internal savings achieved through the generation of jobs and the stable improvement of our productive capacity. We also need the complement of technical and financial cooperation, above all during the stage immediately following the signing of the peace. For all of these reasons, Guatemala appreciates the support and recognition of the international community. For those same reasons, Guatemala also aspires to contribute, to the extent of its modest possibilities, to strengthening the multilateral system and respectful understanding among nations. Guatemala attaches great importance to the principle of universality that must characterize the United Nations, and this leads us to express our conviction that the Republic of China on Taiwan must also be fully represented in our Organization and must actively participate in the search for solutions in this new global, interdependent world. In our opinion, and taking into account earlier positive experiences, this in no way contradicts any effort at reunification. It is often said that we are living in a time of change. But it is much more than that: this is a change of times. We are living just on the bridge between two different eras of world history, where we cannot yet make out the difference between what is ending and what is beginning. There is an order that has gone into crisis, but there is a new order that cannot yet be clearly perceived. All institutions are being put to the test. We view with appreciation and hope the fact that this interaction between Guatemala’s experience and the respectful participation of Governments and multilateral institutions is yielding modest but valid solutions, enabling us to envisage a simple, competent and less bureaucratic form of institutional structures, and a kind of cooperation that does not undermine the precarious living conditions of the poor majorities in our countries and that contributes ideas and technical skills with due respect for our population. Guatemala is becoming a laboratory for cooperation with respect, of partnership rather than imposition. It is also becoming a broad and open horizon for discovery, an opportunity to search for ways to encompass the aspirations, proposals and initiatives of so many people from inside and from abroad, and above all, to go on creating spaces for self-expression by the people and the communities of my country, which, with such courage, endurance, valour and desire, have not succumbed to adversity. I wish to attest to the gratitude of my people and my Government to the Secretary-General and to all the officials who in various capacities have contributed to advancing the peace negotiations in my country, as well as to making a reality of the various complex efforts at development that we are undertaking. We wish especially to thank the Moderator appointed by the Secretary- General for the negotiations between the Government of Guatemala and the Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca (URNG), the small but efficient Guatemala Unit of the Secretariat and all the members of the United Nations Mission for the Verification of Human Rights and of Compliance with the Commitments of the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights in Guatemala (MINUGUA), as well as the other Secretariat officials who, in one way or another, directly or indirectly, have contributed to the success of the peace process. Our deep gratitude goes also to the six countries that constitute the Group of Friends of the peace process, 6 which have worked so doggedly for that long-sought goal — Colombia, Mexico, Norway, Spain, the United States of America and Venezuela. We wish also to express our appreciation to other Governments that, without being a formal part of this Group, have substantially contributed to the advancement of our reconciliation and development. Many thanks to all those persons of good will, committed to peace in my country. ﻿Allow me at the outset to address to the President the sincere congratulations of the delegation of the Comoros on his brilliant election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. My country, the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros, is delighted by his election because, in our eyes, it is a unanimous tribute from the international community to his great, friendly country, Malaysia, with which the Comoros maintains excellent relations of cooperation and friendship. This choice is also a tribute to his personal qualifications as a veteran diplomat respected by all. I also take this opportunity to convey our profound thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for the devotion and skill with which he conducted the work of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. To Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary- General, that intrepid artisan of the lofty ideals of peace, solidarity and justice, I should like to pay a well-deserved tribute for the efforts that he continuously makes for the benefit of our world Organization. My country adheres entirely to the Yaoundé Declaration adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the thirty-second session of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), which recommends the candidature of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali for a second term. Last year, the United Nations commemorated with fanfare its fiftieth anniversary. More than 129 Heads of State and Government solemnly reaffirmed the ideals of 17 the maintenance of peace, the peaceful settlement of disputes and the strengthening of international cooperation and development. In the Declaration adopted at that commemorative meeting, the indispensable role of the United Nations was recognized by all. That is why the sovereign leaders of the world also called for the United Nations to be reformed and attuned to the requirements of modern times. An objective analysis has made it possible to see that the structure of the Organization no longer corresponds to the realities of today’s world, which is changing at the economic, political and geographic levels. At a time of globalization, when science and technology are revolutionizing communications, the interdependence of nations is emerging as an incontrovertible fact, and democracy is the only path of salvation for the peoples of the world, our Organization simply cannot and should not keep a body reserved exclusively to certain States on a permanent basis while the great majority has only temporary access to it. In other words, Security Council reform is urgent and imperative if we are to act in accordance with the principle of the sovereign equality of States. In that connection, the Italian proposal for the reform of the Security Council offers specific advantages in terms of the possibility of access to the Council for small and medium-sized States. No one denies the considerable role of the United Nations in the establishment of a global society that is more just and peaceful and better integrated. But everyone remembers the historic conditions of its creation. The end of the cold war, the elaboration of a number of conventions and treaties on disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are, in our view, moral values that guarantee the emergence of a world of peace in which the right to life and well-being will win out over barbarism and brute force. At the dawn of the third millennium, the United Nations represents the only recourse for the emancipation of peoples and the eradication of poverty. In this connection, we must emphasize the considerable work done by the Organization’s specialized agencies to help States requiring assistance in their daily struggle against underdevelopment. There is no need to recall that, in the past five years, our Organization has initiated and organized a number of thematic conferences aimed at identifying solutions capable of inspiring States in their national policy-making. These include the New York World Summit for Children, the Rio Conference on Environment and Development, the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development, the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development, the Beijing Fourth World Conference on Women and, more recently, the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) at Istanbul. We are also entitled to hope that next November’s Rome World Food Summit will offer effective guidance in this vital area. The founding fathers of our Organization, recalling the horrors and atrocities of the Second World War, bequeathed to us an instrument that grants primacy to law and dialogue. Unfortunately, other modern scourges, such as genocide, ethnic cleansing, occupation and civil war have continued to raise the clamour of weapons within States. The victims of these new wars are the same as those of yesterday’s — women, children and the elderly. The resurgence of violence in the Middle East in the past few days, arising from the many provocations orchestrated by the new Israeli authorities, throws into the question the peace process, which recognizes the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to a sovereign and independent State. For my country, the resumption of the peace process necessarily involves a withdrawal of Israeli troops from occupied territories of the Golan and southern Lebanon. The closing of the tunnel under the Al-Aqsa Mosque is a sine qua non for reducing tensions and halting the violence. During the past 30 years of warfare in the Middle East, the victims have been and remain the civilian populations. No one can forget the Gulf war or its consequences for all parties concerned. My country urges Iraq to seek a solution that would ensure the peace and security of its neighbours and include respect for the independence and territorial integrity of Kuwait. In this connection, the question of Kuwaiti prisoners detained by Iraq is a concern, the settlement of which would send a signal of willingness for appeasement. The illegal occupation of the islands of Tunb and Abu Musa by Iran is also a source of tension in that part of the world. The United Arab Emirates is sparing no effort to recover peacefully that integral part of its territory. 18 The embargoes imposed on the Libyan and Iraqi peoples are of concern to my country. Our Organization must seek ways and means to enable the parties concerned to begin a dialogue aimed at a solution that would alleviate the suffering of the civilian populations of these countries. The advent of a democratic and multiracial South Africa and the peace restored to Angola and Mozambique should not make us overlook the fact that the African continent is still a theatre of conflict. Like the international community, my country remains concerned over the deterioration of the situation and the persistence of violence in Burundi. Only a return to constitutional order and to republican legality can reduce tensions and foster a dialogue between all the people of Burundi. We encourage President Mwalimu Julius Nyerere in his mediation efforts aimed at a peaceful solution. The recent Abuja Agreement on Liberia offers a glimmer of hope for peace, provided that all the factions observe the current ceasefire and participate in the disarmament and demobilization of troops. The Government of Sierra Leone and the Revolutionary United Front have made a commitment to negotiation in order to put an end to the tragic fratricidal war in that country. We can only encourage such initiatives and commend Côte d’Ivoire for its mediation. The situation in Somalia warrants special attention. It demonstrates the inability of the international community to find a viable solution to the Somali tragedy. The question of Western Sahara also requires in-depth consideration on the part of our Organization, because this question involves safeguarding the unity and territorial integrity of a State Member of our Organization, the Kingdom of Morocco. Fortunately, other conflicts are coming to an end. Thus, the recent elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina mark a decisive new stage in the consolidation of peace and security — the only condition that would make national reconstruction possible in that country long devastated by war. The world has become a global village fraught with inequality for its inhabitants. Indeed, the new world economic order and development strategies have not bridged the gap separating the rich and poor countries. The mid-term review of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s has made it possible to note that the Agenda has not had the desired impact on development, despite its harmonized priorities and objectives. But we dare to hope that the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa, which complements the New Agenda, will stimulate the process and accelerate the integration of Africa into the international trading system. For now, small States can only expect a continued drop in the prices of their raw materials and an increasingly unbearable debt burden. The Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros, a small island State that is among the least developed, is one of those excluded from international trade because, in addition to its limited natural resources and the high cost of international transport, other political and structural constraints have been brought to bear that bridle its socio- economic development. The recent history of my country has been characterized by a series of tragedies. The Assembly will certainly recall the dramatic events of September 1995 in the wake of the invasion of the country by mercenaries. This aroused the indignation of the international community and brought true economic and social disaster to my country. The people of the Comoros have suffered too deeply from repeated attempts at destabilization fomented from abroad. We appeal to the international community to ensure that such practices — which belong to another era — come to an end throughout the world. I take this opportunity to reiterate our profound gratitude to France, whose military intervention, requested by the Government of the Comoros in accordance with the defence agreements between our two countries, made it possible to rout the mercenaries. In the same context, I am pleased to pay a vibrant tribute to the Organization of African Unity for the decisive role it played in restoring constitutional order. We also extend our gratitude to the United Nations and all those who, near or far, contributed to the organization of the first free, democratic and transparent elections, which brought President Mohamed Taki Abdoulkarim to the highest office of my country. This short overview of conditions in the Comoros demonstrates the extent to which the newly elected Head of State has inherited a catastrophic situation, characterized by an exorbitant external debt, an empty State treasury and months of unpaid salaries for government officials. 19 Yet, strengthened by his popular legitimacy and the support of a broad majority of the people of the Comoros, in six months President Taki drafted the broad outlines of political, economic and social reforms to overcome the numerous obstacles impeding the construction of a democratic, prosperous and interdependent society in the Comoros. A vast programme was set up in the economic and financial sphere that included financial stabilization measures, a State audit, monitoring of civil servants and a recovery of State movable property and real estate. The results are promising and, for the first time, there are cases of corruption and embezzlement of government funds before the Comorian justice system. In this series of reforms, the private sector has pride of place. That is why the Government is disengaging itself from the monopoly it has enjoyed in many sectors which it has turned over to dynamic privatization that generates growth. Official contacts have been opened with financial institutions and development partners of the Comoros in order to establish a structural adjustment programme with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to restore my country’s credibility. In the social sphere, ministerial departments — inter alia, those of national education and public health — have mobilized their energies to rehabilitate these very sensitive and vital sectors. An international conference on education in the Comoros is planned for next December and we invite all friendly countries, international and regional bodies to participate in that important meeting, aimed at mobilizing the necessary resources to finance education that meets the expectations of Comorian youth. In the political and institutional sectors, the incredible proliferation of small political parties and a jury-rigged Constitution that is ineffective and difficult to implement have seriously hampered the new democratic process. Thus, the new presidential majority, comprised of more than 18 political parties out of the 25 that have been officially recognized, has merged into one great national political movement. A consultative commission comprised of all the active forces within the nation — political parties, trade unions and human rights and environmental associations — has been working to amend the Constitution. Their draft will be submitted for approval this month to the Comorian people in a referendum. As soon as it is adopted, legislative and regional elections will be held to set up a parliament for the country and municipal institutions for the regions. After 2l years of independence, the Comoros are still being built. President Mohamed Taki Abdoulkarim is aware of what is at stake. He knows that we must first rely on our own efforts, but he also knows that he may rely on the effective support of the international community, especially the United Nations and its specialized agencies, including the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, to which we reiterate our complete confidence and deep gratitude for their efforts towards the development of the Comoros. From this rostrum, I solemnly appeal to the international community to give special economic assistance to the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros. I cannot conclude my statement without mentioning the question of the Comorian island of Mayotte, which is on the fifty-first session’s agenda as a separate item. At the appropriate time, I will not fail to detail developments and to express our hope of a settlement in the wake of the democratic changes that have occurred in the Comoros in the past six months. The end of the twentieth century challenges our collective conscience to build a better world for future generations — a world without war and without poverty, a world in which injustice, violence, drugs, terrorism and fundamentalism will no longer exist. Of course, one might say that such a world is impossible because profit- seeking, protectionism and intolerance are obstacles to progress and hindrances to the well-being of humanity. But progress in science, technology and medicine reinforces our optimism. It is in this spirit that our faith is revived in a United Nations that is more dynamic and more democratic, a United Nations in which the rule of numbers will carry as much weight as the rule of strength.  ﻿Samoa congratulates you most warmly on your highly acclaimed election. It is a particular pleasure for me to express to you our full confidence in and support for your presidency. I want also to pay tribute to His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal for his outstanding service and leadership during the historic fiftieth session of the Assembly. Samoa welcomes the adoption by this Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which I will sign on behalf of my Government later today. We are signing the Treaty because it is what we have all sought for so long. We applaud and thank Australia for the initiative to bring the Treaty directly to the General Assembly. For us in the Pacific, the CTBT brings to an end a long and unsatisfactory situation. Too many nuclear weapons, far too many, were tested in our region, and we remain fearful of the consequences, especially to our fragile environment and marine resources. Like others, we acknowledge the shortcomings of the CTBT and regret that it was not possible to reach the required consensus in the Conference on Disarmament. But that must not be allowed to stand in the way of the work that remains to be done. The CTBT is a mark of critical progress. We must all now employ the most serious effort in moving the disarmament process further, including bringing the CTBT into force. Today the international community is united, perhaps more so than at any other time, in recognizing the complete elimination of all nuclear weapons as a fundamental goal. Samoa is deeply committed to this goal, and we will continue to work for its achievement together with other members of the United Nations as well as with members of civil society. It is a matter of the greatest encouragement to my Government to have the favourable opinion of the International Court of Justice on the question of the legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons. We welcome in particular the Court’s very timely reminder of the obligation to pursue in good faith, and to bring to a conclusion, negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament. We accept entirely the important opinion of the Court that nuclear disarmament, in all its aspects, must be under strict and effective international control. I should also acknowledge the signing earlier this year by the United States of America, the United Kingdom and France of the Protocols to the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty. The prompt ratification by France is appreciated, and we look forward to full adherence by all nuclear-weapon States. We believe that their full participation will not only inspire confidence within our region, but will also carry a message of hope for the rest of the international community. We place considerable faith in the importance of nuclear-weapon-free zones and the vital role they play in the disarmament process. During this session, along with other delegations, Samoa will support efforts aimed at developing links and enhancing cooperation among southern hemisphere nuclear-weapon-free zones. We are from a region which treasures peace and security, and we seek for ourselves the highest measure of peaceful coexistence with all countries. We therefore share in full the anguish of our fellow humans in all countries who are being denied the conditions to live and to develop in peace and in fulfilment. My Government welcomes the developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the implementation of the Dayton Agreement. Our hope is that the recent elections too will serve to provide confidence and trust among all the parties. We continue to pray for lasting peace in the Middle East. We commend President Clinton for initiating the recent Washington meetings, and we urge all sides, in the renewed negotiations now taking place in the region, to make every effort possible to restore stability and direction to the peace process in the spirit of mutual respect. We are also a country which cherishes the United Nations Charter and the fundamental principles for which our Organization stands. This is the basis for our support of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the People’s Republic of China. We have faith in the elaboration of rules to regulate international behaviour and cooperation. Increasingly, developments in the international system require both State and citizen to submit to international scrutiny. One area that calls for attention concerns serious humanitarian offences and crimes of international concern, including terrorism. Samoa fully supports the early establishment of an international criminal court to deal with these crimes. Reforms of the United Nations were given a great deal of focus at the fiftieth session and much has already been said during this general debate, and rightly so. At almost every level, the Organization remains in need of substantial change and improvement. My own country is fully committed in its support for the ongoing efforts to strengthen and revitalize our Organization to make it more democratic, fair and representative. I must say, however, that having only a small delegation to cope with the multifaceted work being carried out in the five high- level Working Groups, we feel both disadvantaged and, at times, dispirited about the pace and often the direction of the discussions. The membership of the Security Council must be enlarged to reflect the realities of the present time and to enhance the Council’s effectiveness and legitimacy. There is need to give particular consideration to the case of Japan and Germany. My Government is also giving the most serious thought to proposals, such as that of Italy, that would ensure the proper and regular representation of small States and their concerns in the work of the Council. We think the discussions during this session should try and focus on areas with regard to which there is reasonable chance of progress and on which significant consensus can be consolidated. We do not see the point in endless open-ended discussions. We share fully the concerns voiced about the very serious and unsatisfactory financial situation of the United Nations. The payment of assessed contributions is a freely accepted responsibility and a solemn duty that all States must discharge promptly and without condition. Samoa willingly accepts this duty and will continue to meet its own financial obligations. However, we must say again that the current floor rate has rendered the present scale of assessments inequitable for small and least developed States like my own. A recent report of the Committee on Contributions has given attention to this anomaly, and we feel that timely action must be taken to work out a fairer system of assessment based on capacity to pay in real terms. Next year, during your presidency, Sir, we shall have to undertake the five-year review of Agenda 21. It will be a first and timely opportunity for comprehensive 2 assessment and for giving momentum to sustainable development. Given your prominence at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in 1992, we shall have to look to you for an extra measure of leadership to ensure solid results from the review and effective performance from the institutions charged with implementing Agenda 21. Samoa, together with other small island States, continues to emphasize the importance of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. It is a realistic plan for our sustainable economic development. While our endeavours to implement the Programme of Action have been greatly assisted and facilitated by United Nations organs, achievement is ultimately a matter of national effort and perseverance. With the crucial support of the international community, we must continue to hold high the ethic of self-sufficiency. The sea and its resources provide real prospects for our development. The legal regimes that govern them and their use are matters of vital importance to Samoa. They will continue to receive our closest attention. We welcome the election of members of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the establishment of the International Seabed Authority. We think it is appropriate to grant United Nations observer status to the Authority and we will support the efforts to strengthen the organization of the Authority and to ensure its financial viability. The preservation of our environment is a major preoccupation for my country. We will continue to make every effort to be engaged in international discussions and to contribute to the development of international environmental principles and modalities to ensure that our concerns are adequately reflected. Recourse to international law and to effective international mechanisms is the ultimate protection and security for small States. The global climate is changing, and the impact of this, especially the rise in the sea level, pose the most serious dangers for Samoa and for all small islands. As a member of the Alliance of Small Island States, we have pressed and will continue to press our concerns for immediate and effective international action. The second assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change confirms what we have long feared: human activity is warming and changing the climate system. Ministers of the Environment who attended the second Conference of the Parties in Geneva in July this year endorsed the report as the most comprehensive and authoritative assessment of climate science. The Panel’s report underlines the real urgency of the climate change negotiations mandated at Berlin last year. Current commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the Convention will not be enough to arrest global warming, and additional and effective commitments by industrialized countries extending beyond the year 2000 must be established. In 1994, the Alliance of Small Island States submitted possible solutions as set out in its draft protocol. It remains the only complete proposal on the table. We now have barely a year before the need to finalize negotiations of a protocol or another legal instrument to strengthen the Convention on Climate Change for adoption at the Conference of the Parties next year in Kyoto, Japan. We call on all Convention parties to move with all seriousness and urgency on the matter. The General Assembly has a full and comprehensive agenda before it. Under your leadership we have every reason to look forward to firm and positive results.  ﻿It is with great pleasure that I convey to you, Mr. President, my congratulations on your election to guide the work of this session of the General Assembly. At the same time I extend congratulations to the country that you represent with such distinction. Your outstanding qualities guarantee a competent presidency, which will certainly contribute to the success of our work. I should also like to express my special appreciation for the enlightened and committed leadership of your predecessor, Mr. Freitas do Amaral, who, in the course of the historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly, made an undeniable contribution to the continued progress of the United Nations. I also take this opportunity to express the highest appreciation of my delegation for the vision, initiative and determination that have characterized the work of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in his pursuit of the noble objectives of our Organization. It is with pleasure that I reiterate here the support of my country for his re-election. Cape Verde, being a small developing country that is particularly affected by drought and desertification, and without any means of defence, has every reason to place a great deal of hope in the success of the United Nations, particularly with respect to the fulfilment of the principles and the goals of its Charter, such as the promotion of peace and security, social and economic development, the protection and defence of the environment, human rights and international law. But small countries are not the only ones looking to the United Nations with hope. In today’s world, when interdependencies are increasing and globalization is spreading to a growing number of sectors of humankind’s activity, the existence and the work of our Organization is becoming more and more indispensable to all nations of the globe. Governments are, in fact, more clearly aware of the need for international forums in which, through accommodation, they can reach consensus and decide on global policies, strategies and actions that, increasingly, are in the interests of the whole planet. However, no institution apart from the United Nations has the vocation or the capacity to respond to those needs, since, to a large extent, it is the architect of the international stage on which we are players today. Under the auspices of the United Nations many results have been achieved in the search for solutions to the problems that afflict humankind. Spectacular progress has allowed human beings to take giant steps in science and technology. Nevertheless, there are still huge challenges to overcome, so that the ideals of the founders of the United Nations may triumph all over the face of the Earth. In reality, for many people peace is still a dream, and promises of the distribution of the dividends from the end of the cold war have become an illusion. Malnutrition, disease, illiteracy — the eternal partners of underdevelopment — still overpower nations, preventing them from developing to their full potential to the benefit of their populations. Similarly, in many countries human rights are flagrantly violated, women are marginalized, and children fall victim to maltreatment and exploitation. In other countries, ethnic groups are subject to persecution and systematic “cleansing”. At the same time, situations of tension, such as arms and drug trafficking, the internationalization of organized crime and an upsurge in terrorism, are becoming generalized. But it is necessary to bear in mind that such phenomena, both because of their origin and impact, can be fought efficiently only if there is a firm, unequivocal commitment by all States to improve international cooperation and better utilize resources within the framework of the United Nations. Cape Verde, due to its proximity to the Sahara desert, is particularly affected by ecological problems, since, like other countries of the Sahel, it faces continuous environmental degradation, which threatens the very survival of its population. It is therefore natural for us to welcome with joy the adoption and entry into force of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, in particular its Regional Implementation Annex for Africa. The particular attention paid to Africa is clearly justified. This continent is, without the shadow of a doubt, the most affected by drought and the most threatened by the advance of desertification. The ecological balance of the African continent, one fourth of the area of the planet, is crucial to stabilize the environment as a whole. For that reason, the efforts that need to be made to prevent the desert from spreading must be shared by the entire international community. Cape Verde is therefore committed, together with other countries, to establishing an international mechanism with the aim of facilitating the implementation and financing of the projects and programmes of the aforementioned Convention. We stress the praiseworthy action, at the subregional level, of the Permanent Inter- State Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel in coordinating efforts to fight drought and desertification. I should also like to underline the significant efforts made in this area at the national level in Cape Verde. The reforestation programme launched in the first years of my country’s independence continues with the same vigour 20 years later, and the results achieved are encouraging. Since the programme was launched, the area covered has gone from 7,413 to nearly 181,275 acres. I must also highlight the major support given by Cape Verde’s development partners, without which it would not be possible to maintain the reforestation programme at its current pace, which is satisfactory to all. In spite of the success of this programme and of the efforts made, my country is still affected by the devastating consequences of drought. In fact, due to the lack of rainfall in July and the insufficient rain last August and September, Cape Verde faces a year of crop failure, which, once again, has given rise to anxiety and distress among Cape Verde’s farmers. Therefore, my Government will be forced, once again, to make an unexpected effort to address the consequences of such a situation, which, of course, will have a negative impact on the development process. We therefore urge international solidarity with the people and Government of Cape Verde to help our country overcome the current farming crisis and ensure employment in the rural areas. The world is seeing the gap widen between industrialized countries and developing countries. Economic globalization and the development of information and communications technology highlight existing differences. Restrictive immigration policies, which are associated with the spread of racism and xenophobia, are gathering speed day by day, which is disturbing to us. 2 Meanwhile, developing countries and, in particular, the least developed, face the consequences of accelerated population growth, which has direct repercussions on unemployment. The pursuit of full employment should be the top priority of social and economic policies aimed at bringing about development in order to provide all — men and women — with the chance to ensure that their means of subsistence are secure and long-lasting. Unfortunately, the international community is still reluctant to assume its responsibilities in such matters. A heavy burden thus falls upon the developing countries — the task of recovering from the delays resulting from an economic order that has not been, and still is not, in their favour. This burden is even heavier in view of the inexorable trend towards the reduction of financial flows to the least developed countries, both in official development assistance and foreign direct investment. In this regard, the Agenda for Development, aimed at supporting those countries in their efforts for recovery, should make urgent demands with regard to international cooperation for development. It should, at the same time, reaffirm the right to development as a main concern of the international community. The Agenda for Development cannot be seen as a mere enunciation of principles, but should be taken as a true charter of social and economic goals, with the United Nations playing a key role in its promotion and materialization. In order to prepare the United Nations for the challenges facing humankind as we approach the end of the century, we are committed to improving of the Organization by promoting and undertaking reforms with the aim of strengthening it and empowering it so that it is better able to fulfil the objectives of its Charter. There have been long and complex negotiations on the reform and restructuring of the United Nations system. This exercise has been characterized by its particular intensity and richness, aimed at adapting the institutions of our Organization to the new challenges that face humankind as we approach the end of the century. But we are close to the time when decisions of the utmost importance to the future of the United Nations will have to be taken. They will have to correspond, with due balance, to the concerns of large and small countries. What will certainly not be acceptable is a situation in which reforms end up maintaining the differences that already exist today. We support the idea that reforms should reflect the deep changes that have taken place in the 50 years since the creation of the United Nations. There must be fair representation for all regions of the world in the decision-making bodies of the United Nations, particularly in the Security Council. In this regard, we recognize the need for Africa to be duly represented, namely with African countries as permanent members of the Council. We have all witnessed the successes, however relative, of the difficult talks on nuclear disarmament, in particular the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and the very recent adoption by the General Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which I had the honour and pleasure to sign on behalf of my country on 2 October 1996. We believe that these two documents provide a historic opportunity and a powerful impetus for the creation of conditions that will allow us to look with hope to the possibility, one day, of a world free of all nuclear weapons and of the nightmare of their use. The process of nuclear disarmament should, from now on, gain greater attention and follow-up. The signature in Cairo, on 11 April, of the Pelindaba Treaty, which is the conclusion of joint efforts made by the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations, marked the solemn pledge of the Governments and peoples of Africa to assume their share of the task of ridding the continent and the planet of nuclear weapons, in the same way as did the Governments of Latin America and the Caribbean in 1967, and those of the South Pacific in 1985. Cape Verde, which has consistently supported all efforts aimed at banning weapons of mass destruction, cannot but congratulate itself on the strengthening of international stability and security. Expectations were therefore raised in respect of the planned fourth special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament. We note that its mandate will be defined in the course of this session. We hope the special session will become a landmark in the creation of an atmosphere of relief and trust that will help us to reach the goal of eliminating weapons of mass destruction and reducing conventional armaments. A combination of historical, political, economic and climatic factors, among others, have given Africa the lowest level of development of any continent over the 3 past three decades. Social and economic indicators are still negative, as are Africa’s prospects for the future. Approximately 50 per cent of the population of our continent lives in a state of absolute poverty and that percentage will surely increase if quick and efficient solutions are not found to resolve this crisis. At the same time, as cause and consequence of this appalling scenario, we have witnessed a succession of bloody conflicts, bringing even greater poverty, disease and the degradation or even destruction of the environment. For this reason, so many important resources and capabilities that are essential to assessing and resolving the complex issues of development are being wasted and, very often, forever lost on the battlefields. But it is not only the countries directly involved in such conflicts that suffer the consequences. The tension brought about by the presence of armed groups across the borders of other States, the tragedy of refugees and displaced persons seeking shelter in neighbouring countries and very often the consequent destruction of the environment, the spread of disease, the degeneration of moral values, the horror of suffering and behaviours far removed from human values are all situations not confined to the territorial limits of the States where conflicts occur. It is therefore with deep sorrow that we witness the never-ending armed conflicts on our continent, despite the efforts of both the African and the international communities to put an end to them. Even when the parties involved seem to have reached an agreement for the re- establishment of peace, there are unjustified reversals that jeopardize the entire process. An example of this is the conflict that still exists in Angola, a country with which Cape Verde has deep ties not only of history and culture, but also of solidarity. We support the efforts of the Angolan Government and the international community to undertake all tasks aimed at bringing about a lasting peace, social stability and the normal functioning of institutions at the national level, without which the Angolan people will be unable to enjoy the tranquillity they rightfully deserve and the wealth they could and should benefit from, given the huge potential of their country. The need for joint action to end the nightmare of war in several regions of the African continent is becoming more and more urgent. The creation of the OAU Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution was a far-sighted decision giving our continent the autonomous ability to help resolve situations of violence and tension. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that, in keeping with the principles that are at the foundation of that Mechanism, its main aim is anticipation and prevention of conflicts. Peacekeeping and security in the world remain the primary responsibility of the United Nations Security Council, though there may be a justification in some situations for the involvement of the OAU in specific peacekeeping and observer missions. Addressing the causes of the conflicts, however, remains the most important issue. These causes are to be found essentially in the conditions of underdevelopment that persist in most of our countries. Such conditions nurture the seeds of violence and intolerance, are at the root of armed conflicts and block the establishment of structures to ensure democratic participation and its resulting human rights benefits. Key elements for the attainment of peace in Africa are therefore the promotion of lasting development, investment in human resources and ensuring that current processes of democratization are successful and widespread. It is imperative that such processes be duly supported so that they can consolidate and improve the living conditions of the population and stand up to possible coups de force or other such threats. The promotion and use of dialogue must be employed to resolve situations of civil strife and armed conflict. In the light of the dimension and scale of the problem of development in Africa and questions of security, we agree with the argument that Africa is currently the major challenge facing the United Nations. Development, security and peace are major concerns in the minds of the leaders of the continent and of all others interested in the future of Africa. These goals are interrelated and cannot be achieved separately. Of all the factors limiting the achievement of such objectives, the reduction of poverty is undoubtedly the one that must first be overcome through a strategy of sustainable development. Without this, the remaining economic and social goals cannot be achieved. The persistence of poverty is a constant threat not only to economic development, but also to the political and social stability of States and to the preservation of the environment. Another fact to bear in mind is that solutions for the problems of development in Africa should be designed and managed on our own continent, thus making 4 responsibility for Africa dependent on the development of the countries thereof. In this context, Africa is currently deeply committed to the search for internal and lasting solutions to its problems, which in no way suggests a rejection of the technological and financial resources and contributions that we believe the international community should continue to make available so that we can overcome the major difficulties we still face. African countries are fully aware that they must take their destiny into their own hands and have been trying to implement measures that reflect their seriousness and hence worthiness to receive support in order to produce the expected results. Several African countries have been undertaking institutional reforms with the aim of opening up their markets, reducing the role of the State in the economy and strengthening the private sector in order to make it credible and able to generate employment. Such reforms, combined with democracy and the development of civil society, tend to promote social and economic stability, thereby marshalling internal resources and encouraging foreign investment. In this context, we must stress the importance of initiatives to promote greater foreign private investment, a source of employment and added value which is fundamental to ensuring the continuous and stable growth of African economies. Another important initiative in which Africa is engaged is the African Economic Community, which received a decisive boost in May 1994 when the Abuja Treaty entered into force. As a first step in its implementation, the African countries are engaged in strengthening the regional integration of their economies through regional economic communities. Last year, the Organization of African Unity adopted the Cairo Plan of Action to give new impetus to the economic and social development of Africa. Its objectives — responsible management, food security, development of human resources, the proper and effective use of natural resources, cooperation and economic regional integration — are ambitious but feasible. They depend upon the political will of Governments and their ability to marshal the internal means and external support to achieve these objectives. Mention should be made in this regard to the principles set out in the important decisions adopted or being prepared by the United Nations: the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the Agenda for Development. The Cairo Plan of Action also recalls the need for the adoption of measures limiting the negative impact of the Uruguay Round agreements on the development of Africa in general and of the least developed countries in particular, and urges creditors to be prepared to assist in finding ways to reduce the debt burden, particularly as regards the current levels of debt servicing. The recent mid-term review of the United Nations New Agenda was an opportunity for the international community to renew its commitment to measures aimed at adding new impetus to implementation, particularly as regards external debt, the diversification of African economies, greater access to markets and the transfer of technology. Africa sincerely hopes that that commitment, freely entered into by its partners, will be promptly fulfilled. Although the current situation tends to raise very serious concerns, it is nonetheless possible to find encouraging signs pointing to positive developments in the situation on the African continent from the point of view of economic growth and the consolidation of democracy. And these are more than mere signs; some examples of clear successes already visible in Africa in recent years show that it is not heading exclusively towards chaos and destruction. It is necessary to find appropriate policies to manage these positive signs, policies which we must be courageous enough to implement. We are certain such actions will achieve results. Although the signs are positive, they still do not reflect an irreversible trend. The burden of dependency resulting from past policies is still too heavy for Africa to reverse the situation on its own. Now more than ever, the international community, specialized agencies and the industrialized countries that are friends of Africa are called upon to strengthen financial and technical assistance to the continent so that underdevelopment can be definitively overcome. In this regard, we congratulate certain countries on their willingness to maintain their levels of cooperation with Africa. Cape Verde is also pleased to note the efforts and generosity of certain partners, including some from the South, on behalf of the development of our country. 5 Cape Verde does not expect to be solely a beneficiary of the actions and initiatives of the United Nations. Despite its limitations and the fragility of its economy, my country wishes to contribute to the search for solutions to problems demanding our attention and to participate in those actions in which our presence is necessary. Despite its brief history as an independent country, Cape Verde has several times had an opportunity to play a positive role in processes involving other countries, either contributing to the dialogue and understanding between the parties involved or through participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations. It is the understanding of the Government of Cape Verde that, despite the structural difficulties it faces, it is duty-bound to contribute to the creation of a peaceful international environment and a partnership of solidarity that will allow all the nations of the world to benefit from mankind’s scientific and technical achievements and to improve social management in order to guarantee each citizen internationally recognized basic rights associated with the values of freedom, democracy, development and well-being. In this regard, we must recall here the suffering of the people of East Timor, deprived of the right to exercise self- determination and subjugated to a foreign military occupation for over 20 years. We note with admiration the resilience of the courageous Maubère people, who have lost so many of their sons to the cause of freedom. In this forum, where so much has been done to support the right of colonial peoples to decide their own destinies, we join our voice to those demanding the restitution of legality in that territory and that the Timorese people be given the full exercise of their rights, including the right to self- determination. In this same context, we cannot remain indifferent to the recent events in the Middle East. They show clearly that there is no alternative to the peace process and that dialogue, tolerance and common sense must prevail over force, violence and intolerance, failing which the region could well be plunged anew into chaos and destruction, thus delaying once again the hope of its peoples to live in peace and security. The eyes and hopes of mankind are turned to the United Nations. We are convinced that our Organization will emerge from this session with renewed strength and with new actions and initiatives that will enable us to look confidently to the challenges that the dawn of the third millennium holds for all Governments and peoples of the world.  ﻿Permit me at the outset to congratulate you, Ambassador Razali, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Your election is a fitting tribute to your distinguished career in diplomacy, an expression of confidence in your abilities and a reflection of the high regard in which you and your country, Malaysia, are held by the international community. You have our confidence, and I can assure you of Tanzania’s full support and cooperation as you guide the deliberations of this session. I commend also your predecessor, Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, who very ably presided over the historic fiftieth session of the Assembly. My appreciation goes also to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, a distinguished son of Africa, who for the past five years has worked tirelessly to enhance the image of the Organization as well as its ability to meet the challenges of the rapidly evolving international environment. He has provided dedicated leadership at a particularly difficult time in the history of the United Nations, enduring often unwarranted personal criticism even as he was operating in a situation of diminishing resources on the one hand, and escalating, often conflicting, expectations on the other hand. My predecessor in office stood at this rostrum exactly two years ago and, in bidding farewell to the United Nations, spoke of the political transition then under way in my country and of preparations for the first multi-party elections in Tanzania in over 30 years. He underlined his intention to bequeath to the people of Tanzania a functioning democracy leveraged upon a shared national culture of political accommodation and tolerance. Today, I am proud to be here as a product of that process of transition, to reaffirm our commitment and abiding faith in the United Nations in its endeavour to promote international peace and security as well as economic and social development throughout the world. The United Nations has, since its inception, expanded its role in the international system tremendously, becoming a major player in national development and international cooperation. The various summits that it has organized in recent years, coupled with its numerous activities covering the entire spectrum of political, social and economic spheres, in all corners of the world, is testimony to the critical role of the United Nations in resolving the national and international problems facing mankind. The United Nations has helped maintain international peace and security at very critical times. It has overseen the delivery of peoples and nations from the shackles of colonialism and institutionalized racism to independence. As a result of these efforts, membership has increased almost fourfold. The ideals of freedom and justice and human rights are understood by most of the world, even if they may not always be observed. The United Nations has built a common global culture of shared values, and it has also helped in promoting development, building social and economic infrastructures and much more. Today, the United Nations stands at a crossroads. New challenges, not least those brought about by a rapidly changing international environment, keep demanding its undivided attention. The challenge before us, as we stand on the threshold of the new millennium, is to invigorate and reinforce this Organization, drawing upon the collective resources and knowledge of our world and acting in partnership. Likewise, the ideal we all share for participatory democracy in each Member country needs to find expression on the international plane as well. In the course of the last few years, we have agonized over the process of reform within this Organization. We all want an efficient and revitalized United Nations — one that is more attuned to the realities we live with and capable of meeting the new challenges we face. We must reform its methods of work and bring greater institutional and policy coherence into the Organization. Adjustment and realignment are necessary processes for the renewal and continued relevance of this Organization. Tanzania salutes all those individuals, institutions and Governments that have contributed to this process of review. It is our hope, however, that any reform will preserve and enhance the basic principles underlying the United Nations. We want reform — but only the kind of reform that will ultimately strengthen the hand of our Organization in promoting its ideals. We want greater transparency in the work of our institutions, and the reinforcement of the principles of sovereign equality of States and justice. We need democratization of our institutions, and greater balance in representation on the Security Council between the developed North and the developing South. We cannot, however, expect the United Nations to be, and do, all this and more without giving it the means with which to work. Meeting our financial obligations to the Organization must, therefore, complement our demands upon the Organization and serve to demonstrate our commitment to the ideals it seeks to promote. Just as we have the right to applaud the achievements of the United Nations, we must also have the courage to concede that it has yet to make a dent in the scourge of abject poverty that afflicts the greater part of its membership. This is where we must now direct its attention and resources. The 1995 World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen was a good starting point, and we must implement the letter and spirit of the commitments made there. Unless the issue of poverty is addressed comprehensively, we cannot achieve meaningful and enduring peace. We must restore the development agenda to the heart of the philosophy and work of the United Nations. The world is largely considered peaceful because there has not been a third world war. Yet, for those who are menaced by regional conflicts, for the victims of oppression and injustice, and for those who subsist in unremitting poverty amid a world of plenty, their world is at war. Taken together, these people account for the largest part of the world population, and the United Nations must give them the attention they deserve today. Our United Nations cannot speak of a peaceful world when the future of our children — and their right to grow up as children — is undermined by conflict and poverty, and when urban squalor is breeding anarchy in local communities. Peace must be pursued in a comprehensive manner, taking account of these equal, if not greater, threats to peace within societies and among countries. Our collective shame at poverty amid riches must find expression in our joint action to promote development. Today, the developing world is bombarded by many development initiatives. We are urged to work harder, to liberalize our economies, to cut Government spending, to institute sound macroeconomic policies, to promote the private sector and a host of other measures. Invariably, our countries have done so, quite often at great social expense, the magnitude of which developed countries would not countenance in their own economies. We have done so in the knowledge that ultimately it is we who must take the bull by the horns. Indeed, we accept that we must be more competitive in the market place and bring greater efficiency to Government. We 2 need to use our resources more rationally; we need to fight waste and corruption in Government; we need to streamline our bureaucratic processes, liberalize our economies and open our markets to international commerce. That is why most of us are signatories to the establishment of the new world trade regime under the auspices of the World Trade Organization. Yet our capacity to access, and benefit from, the global markets — the markets of the developed world — is constrained by our underdevelopment, the protectionist policies of the industrialized countries, and the ever-deteriorating terms of trade. Unregulated market forces will not help the very weak, poor and vulnerable countries, whose special circumstances and needs must be attended to. For us, that is the priority agenda for the World Trade Organization, not the introduction of new issues before we perfect the system we have now. The Ruggiero plan to extend tariff-free access in the markets of industrialized countries to products from developing countries is welcome and deserves wide support. We now need a mutually beneficial creative partnership between the developed North and the developing South. Sustainable economic recovery and growth in the South is beneficial to the North as well. Only a prosperous South will be a more meaningful player in global commerce. We shall then be able to buy more from the North, thus freeing the conscience of the developed world from the unending obligation to extend charity, and control illegal immigration. This creative partnership must also recognize the interdependent nature of our world and how ultimately we affect each other. To help the South recover is not an act of simple charity but of building the foundations for a more secure and stable world. We made a call for action at the ninth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD IX) at Midrand in South Africa earlier this year. We must reiterate that call today. Tanzania, like the rest of the developing countries, is determined to face its responsibilities for economic and human development. We cannot, however, make meaningful progress when the millstone of external debt continues to hang around our necks, stifling recovery and growth. The question of the unbearable external debt must be addressed urgently if our creative partnership against global poverty is to bear fruit. Many proposals for debt relief have been discussed over time. We recognize and appreciate these initiatives, including the recent proposals for extraordinary debt relief measures for a selected group of severely indebted countries. The fact remains, however, that no comprehensive action is imminent save for limited measures taken unilaterally, on a case-by-case basis. Urgent, coordinated and comprehensive action remains necessary to alleviate this debt burden, including the cancellation of the debts of least developed countries, whose servicing obligations gobble up their entire earnings. Only then can we hope for an economic turnaround for them. It is the duality of debt cancellation and access to markets that will enable countries like Tanzania to benefit in a liberalized world market place, and hasten the pace of social and economic development. Another heavy burden for developing countries, especially those without fossil fuel sources of energy, is the cost input of energy for development. In this connection, I wish to hail the World Solar Summit, held on 16 and 17 September 1996 in Harare, which helped to focus world political attention on the urgent and imperative need to provide reliable, sustainable and clean sources of energy to all the people of the world, including to the 400 million homes and the 2.4 billion people in the developing world who currently have no access to electricity. We all know that, without electricity, no rapid development of those communities will be forthcoming. The Harare Summit agreed on a framework for a 10-year solar energy programme. We must all give it the political support it needs and deserves if it is to be effective. At the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, we all agreed that failure to develop sustainable and clean sources of energy would result in problems for all of us, rich and poor alike. Deforestation in Africa, Latin America and Asia will affect the countries involved and not involved alike. As long as 92.8 per cent of the energy requirements in Tanzania are met from wood fuel, there is no way that the Government can protect the natural forests unless alternative sources of energy are available at affordable rates. It is in the interest of all humanity and of future generations to facilitate the development of alternative, affordable, sustainable and clean sources of energy for everyone. Tanzania is concerned at the lack of progress in the implementation of the United Nations peace plan for Western Sahara. The international community cannot and must not retreat from this unfinished business. We must reaffirm the inalienable right of the Sahraoui people to self-determination and independence and, to that end, support the holding of a free and fair referendum. We urge the two sides, the Kingdom of Morocco and the 3 Frente Polisario, to initiate direct talks, which would create a climate of confidence and permit the resumption of the implementation of the settlement plan. We wish to keep our hopes alive with regard to the situation in the Middle East and earnestly call for faster and strict implementation of the peace accords. The Israeli Government has a particular responsibility in this respect. We reached a time when we thought that our dreams for the peaceful coexistence of the Palestinian people and the Israeli people were on the verge of coming true. We commend all those who have been instrumental in promoting the peace process. We urge greater restraint on all sides, which must accept that the secure way to sustainable peace and security is through negotiation. I shall now turn to the Burundi crisis. We see our role in Burundi as one not of benevolence, but of duty — duty to help our brothers and sisters there to step back from the brink of mutual destruction to the middle ground of dialogue, political accommodation and national reconciliation. We began our efforts within the Organization of African Unity and gradually turned over the task of bringing the political forces in sustained dialogue to former President, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, within the framework of the Mwanza talks. Not only was the military coup of 25 July 1996 an illegal and unconstitutional act; it also undermined the efforts in the region to promote dialogue and restore peace to that most tormented country. The coup is unacceptable to all regional leaders and we demand a return to legitimacy and a negotiated political settlement that will guarantee democracy and the security of minorities. In order to speed up the process of compliance, the region has imposed economic sanctions on Burundi. Those sanctions will remain in place until all the conditions set at Arusha are met by the military rulers in Bujumbura. These are not unreasonable conditions. They are the restoration of the National Assembly, which is a democratic institution of legality that derived its mandate from the Burundian people; removing the ban on political parties in the country; and the resumption of unconditional political negotiations with all the parties to the conflict. We have, at the same time, made it clear to the Burundi people that the sanctions are meant only to secure the compliance of their military rulers with these conditions, and nothing more. Once this has been done, Tanzania, the region and, indeed, the international community have all reiterated that they are prepared to resume their assistance and cooperation in the process of restoring peace and rebuilding that country. We can all pledge our help, but the challenge of making peace is one that only the Burundian people and those who claim leadership of that country can shoulder. The onus of bringing peace to their county rests squarely upon their shoulders. The key to a sustainable solution is in their own hands. We can only help. At the same time we, the neighbours and the rest of the international community, have an inescapable responsibility to save the Burundian people from self- destruction. We cannot stand by and watch the perpetuation of killings, the steady degeneration of the security situation and the catastrophe they portend for the country and the subregion. As we seek to help the Burundian people retrace the path of dialogue, we remain preoccupied by the fragility of the political situation in the Great Lakes region as a whole. While Rwanda is steadily progressing along the path of recovery, the wounds of war and genocide have yet to heal. That country needs the solidarity and support of the international community. One of the serious consequences of conflict in the region has been the massive human displacement, and refugees now constitute a tremendous burden for the neighbouring countries. Tanzania is currently hosting over 1 million refugees from Rwanda and Burundi. The implications of their presence in such large numbers within limited localities have been tremendous in terms of the destruction of the environment, increased insecurity and criminality, and the social and economic burden they have imposed upon the host communities. The traditional hospitality of Tanzanians towards refugees is wearing very thin indeed. We appreciate the work of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other humanitarian agencies in offering protection and succour to the refugees. What they have done is very useful, but it is not enough to offset the burden that these refugees place upon our communities. We call upon the international community, in the name of human solidarity, to redouble its assistance to meet the urgent needs of these refugees, while at the same time addressing the long-term effects attendant on hosting them. Above all, we must help both Rwanda and Burundi to address the root causes of these human displacements. The ultimate goal must be the voluntary repatriation of the refugees to their home countries. To us, the creation of an environment that will facilitate such a process of repatriation is now a priority. 4 Whether in Liberia, Somalia or elsewhere in the world, we see the need for courage and statesmanship to defeat the temptations of political unilateralism and promote dialogue and greater human solidarity. The courage to rise above deep-seated prejudices and fears — the courage to depart from traditional rigidity that has made conflict endemic in some parts of the world — is the key that will open up a new era of dialogue, political accommodation and national concord. We have seen how such courage and statesmanship can reverse long-standing hostilities and build on the realism of our shared destiny as human beings. The Middle East, Bosnia and Herzegovina, South Africa and Angola are cases in point. Difficulties remain, but we have crossed the Rubicon and, with determination, we can maintain a steady pace towards peace in these and other areas around the world. The United Nations played a key role in this task. It will have to play an even greater role in consolidating the progress towards peace. The end of the cold war did not, unfortunately, usher in the spring of collective peace and the blossoming of the flowers of international cooperation. The world is still divided — even if not on ideological lines — between those who are armed and those who are unarmed. Vast nuclear arsenals remain and their technological improvement continues unabated. The hopes for collective peace run the risk of being thwarted by the unilateralism of those who are armed with the most deadly weapons. My country is concerned about the vertical proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the unremitting desire of those who have them to rationalize their possession. This undermines peace. Since the coming into force two years ago of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, we have witnessed the establishment of the various institutions envisaged in the Convention. We are pleased that, at long last, there is positive movement towards ensuring the regularized use of the oceans and their resources to the benefit of all people the world over. The Government of Tanzania attaches great importance to ensuring that the make-up of the International Seabed Authority in its formative years is so structured as to facilitate the carrying out of its responsibilities in the manner envisaged in the Convention and implementation Agreement of 1994. The establishment of the International Tribunal on the Law of the Sea has added a fillip to the Convention, and the election of its judges last August was another milestone in the work of the United Nations. In this connection, we express our appreciation to the States Parties to the Convention on the Law of the Sea for electing a Tanzanian, The Honourable Joseph S. Warioba, as one of the judges of the Tribunal. We congratulate all members of the Tribunal on being entrusted with such an historic mission. The founding of the United Nations was inspired by the human solidarity which the world sought to promote five decades ago. It is that solidarity which our nations gathered here last year to commemorate. What holds our nations together, despite their diversity, is the common bond and solidarity we feel for each other as human beings. Today, more than ever before, we need that solidarity in order to deal with the myriad problems we all face together: the problems of poverty and underdevelopment, peace and security, justice and human rights, disarmament and the environment, international terrorism and drug trafficking and many others. All require joint and coordinated international action. Those more powerful amongst us can try to solve these problems unilaterally, but in order for their efforts to bear fruit, they too need the cooperation of everyone. That is why I invite this Assembly to embark on a mission to rediscover human solidarity and to build structures for global partnership, the better world which the founding fathers of this Organization set out to establish 51 years ago. As an African leader, I wish to end my speech by commending and supporting the United Nations Secretary-General for the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa he launched on 15 March of this year, which seeks to provide coordinated action across the entire United Nations system over a 10-year period to address the unique development needs of the African continent. It is my hope that coming in the wake of the Copenhagen Social Summit, it will benefit from that Summit’s commitments and create the kind of impact that has long been missing in previous summit declarations and plans of action. Africa is a continent with an ancient and rich history. It is richly endowed with human and natural resources. I have great hopes for Africa and, being part of its new leadership, I pledge to work with anyone who shares my conviction that Africa is positioned for political and economic renewal, reform and reconstruction for development. Together, we can realize the dream of a more peaceful, a more developed and a more respected continent. Together, we can realize the dream of a world closer than ever to the ideals set out in the United Nations Charter over 50 years ago. 5 ﻿It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Ambassador Razali on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. He is not present here, but I would like to say that he is no stranger to India. We are fully cognizant of his sagacity and skills and repose our confidence in his ability to successfully guide the General Assembly during its fifty-first session. May I also express my delegation’s warm appreciation for the presidency of his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for a most productive tenure as President of the Assembly in its historic, landmark fiftieth year. Six years ago I had the privilege of addressing the historic forty-fifth session of this Assembly. We rejoiced 12 at the end of the cold war and believed that the animosities, rivalries, suspicions and intrigues that had bedeviled the past would now be overcome and the problems of the world and their solutions could be addressed with greater, perhaps pristine, clarity. We have welcomed the reduction of global tensions and the opening up of new economic possibilities between nations. However, we cannot say that the new dawn has led to a new and genuinely cooperative web of kinship and collaboration. Regional conflicts and tensions continue to occupy us. Development problems remain acute, and there is less sensitivity to the genuine needs of struggling nations. The voice of the rich and powerful nations rings louder than ever, while the developing world feels itself more marginalized and ignored than ever. In these circumstances, it is even more necessary to strive for a genuine spirit of joint international endeavour in addressing the world’s problems. The United Nations is the foremost embodiment of multilateralism. No single nation or even group of nations today can expect to find solutions to the world’s problems, nor are many problems amenable to solutions in isolation. Global problems require global institutions and global solutions. This role and duty can fall only to the United Nations. We are concerned at unilateral actions and at the evident decline in the commitment to obligations under the Charter of the United Nations. International cooperation is necessary to meet the vast development needs of the developing countries, to eliminate weapons of mass destruction and to fight terrorism and crime. The United Nations system, under which sovereign nations have joined together to achieve their common objectives, is the universal framework for international cooperation. The Charter of the United Nations is the real basis for renewing multilateralism. India recently joined 15 other Heads of State or Government in stating that “either nations move forward to strengthen (multilateralism), or we risk having to face more unilateralism and perhaps conflict and overt disregard of international law and common values”. The United Nations is at a crossroads. Its financial crisis is the result of an unwarranted unwillingness on the part of certain countries to pay their dues in full and on time. Such deliberate targeting of the United Nations represents the most acute threat to multilateral cooperation and can do incalculable long-term damage. Beyond the financial crisis of the United Nations itself is the critical issue of financing global cooperation. While the world remains confronted with enormous problems of poverty, malnutrition, disease, ecological degradation and waste, the will to contribute is on the decline. Development assistance is at its lowest level in decades. Negotiated replenishments of multilateral development funds are not being honoured. It is unfortunate that voices continue to be raised questioning the role of the United Nations in the economic growth and social development of developing countries. It is necessary to restore to the United Nations, in the coming century, the important role of eradicating poverty and all the ills associated with it, of promoting development and achieving social progress and better living standards, with more freedom for all. For this purpose, the multilateral economic system needs to be reformed and the partnership of the United Nations with other relevant institutions must to be strengthened in order to achieve greater economic growth, integration and sustainable development. The United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions need to develop an effective partnership. While India welcomes the initial, tentative steps towards such a partnership, effective economic leadership requires that we work to ensure a much closer relationship between global economic institutions than has been the case so far. Indeed, there is no alternative if the financing of long- term global cooperation in economic and social fields is to be assured. We need larger volumes of financial assistance, greater predictability of resources and unfettered access to the markets of developed countries. It is also time that we energize our efforts to complete the Agenda for Development and launch an effective follow- up process, including in the context of the recent major United Nations conferences. India is unreservedly committed to the protection and promotion of human rights. The profoundly humanistic traditions of Indian civilization, with its emphasis on tolerance, harmony, non-violence and the inviolability of the individual, have been consolidated in the Constitution of India, which is indeed a veritable bill of human rights. All human rights are sacrosanct in India, guaranteed by its Constitution, an independent judiciary, a free press, public opinion vigorously expressed and an independent National Human Rights Commission. To us in India, the human rights of all segments of society are sacrosanct and an article of faith rather than a policy. 13 We believe that international cooperation in the protection and promotion of human rights should proceed within the framework of respect for the sovereignty and integrity of States. We deplore the selective use of human rights issues as a form of political pressure, as an obstacle to trade or as a condition for development assistance. Such actions detract from the moral imperatives of human rights promotion and impede the full realization of the human rights of all people. Human rights violations take many forms. Among the most pernicious of them is terrorism. Terrorism seeks to exploit the openness and freedom offered by democratic societies to pursue narrow ends through the use of violence. It must be combated by firm action at the national and international level. We are dismayed when we hear certain parties voice concern for the so-called rights of terrorists while ignoring their persistent violation of the human rights of their victims, including the right to life, freedom of expression and the freedom to follow religious beliefs of one’s own choice. India took the lead in raising the issue of terrorism as a threat to human rights almost five years ago. We are pleased that despite initial and sometimes vocal opposition by some western countries, terrorism is now accepted to be the major threat to the enjoyment of human rights today. A number of international declarations have been issued on terrorism such as the Sharm el-Sheikh Declaration, and the G-7 Lyons Declaration of 27 June 1996. We are encouraged that the international community now recognizes terrorism as a major challenge to democracy, human rights and peace. In this context, India will pursue its call to adopt a binding international convention to combat terrorism. Fifty years after the United Nations was established, the threat to humanity posed by nuclear weapons continues unabated. We believe that India’s security, as indeed that of all countries, lies in a nuclear-weapon-free world. The only way to achieve this ultimate security is to ban the production, possession and use of nuclear weapons within an agreed time-frame. Partial and half-hearted arms control measures, such as the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) or the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), defeat this objective by legitimizing the possession of nuclear weapons and permitting the non-explosive testing of nuclear weapons by nuclear-weapon countries. India, therefore, cannot be a party to such flawed arrangements. Let me also emphasize that any effective disarmament regime needs to be universal in its approach and scope. The total elimination of all existing nuclear weapons, as an indispensable step towards general and complete disarmament under strict and efficient international control, is the demand of the entire Non- Aligned Movement, to which we fully subscribe. Partial or regional approaches, as are sometimes put forward, do not serve any useful purpose and can distract us from the accepted goal. At the same time, India remains committed to participating fully and actively in any negotiations on a treaty banning nuclear weapons and all types of tests, just as it did in regard to the Chemical Weapons Convention. India signed and deposited its instrument of ratification of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction two weeks ago. India regrets that major chemical weapon producers have been slow to ratify the Convention. We urge all those countries which have still not done so to ratify the Chemical Weapons Convention and to demonstrate their readiness to move towards banning all weapons of mass destruction. India will work with all like-minded countries in sponsoring draft resolutions on the establishment of an ad hoc committee under the Conference on Disarmament for beginning negotiations on a treaty banning nuclear weapons in a time-bound framework. India expects all countries, including those represented in the Canberra Commission on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons, which support time-bound elimination of nuclear weapons, to join in supporting such draft resolutions. India will once again present the draft convention on the prohibition of the use of nuclear weapons at this session of the General Assembly. India believes that the urgency of negotiating that convention has been greatly enhanced by the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice regarding the illegality of the use of nuclear weapons. At the recent session of the Conference on Disarmament, India joined 27 non-aligned and neutral countries to present a phased programme for the elimination of nuclear weapons by the year 2020. India asks that all countries join us in propagating and promoting this joint proposal, both at the fifty-first session of the General Assembly and in other forums. 14 India is in favour of a non-discriminatory and universal ban on anti-personnel mines, which cripple or kill a large number of civilians. The continued credibility of the United Nations requires reform of the Organization to reflect present-day realities. While the membership of the United Nations has increased greatly, the voices of the newly sovereign countries in decision-making in the United Nations remain unheard. There is an imbalance in the authority and weight of structures and organs, just as there is an imbalance in the weight of different countries or groups. The General Assembly, the sole universal organ of the United Nations, needs to find greater resonance in other bodies of the system. The Security Council must be made more representative in order to enhance its legitimacy and effectiveness. The vast increase in the membership of the United Nations since its founding, especially of the developing countries, must find adequate representation in the categories of permanent and non-permanent membership. A comprehensive proposal by the Non- Aligned Movement for the reform and restructuring of the Security Council is already on the table. India supports the expansion of both the permanent and the non-permanent categories. We are against piecemeal or temporary solutions which discriminate against developing countries. We believe that the same yardstick must be applied to all countries, developed or developing, from all regions or groups, for induction as permanent members. We believe that under any objectively derived criteria for the expansion of permanent members, India would be an obvious candidate. Reform and expansion must be an integral part of a common package. The restructuring of the Security Council must give expression to the impulse for reform. The reforms must address not only the failings of the past, but also the needs of the future. Peacekeeping is a significant area of United Nations activities, very often the most visible symbol of the Organization’s presence on the ground. India has participated in over 25 peacekeeping operations on four continents, including some of the most sensitive and prolonged, starting with Korea in 1953 and 1954, and including the operations in Viet Nam, Congo, the Middle East, Cambodia, Haiti, Somalia, El Salvador, Mozambique and Rwanda. Indian peacekeepers are currently in the field in Angola, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Liberia and Kuwait. Our participation has not been without cost. We have lost 100 peacekeepers for the United Nations cause. We have also offered a fully-equipped brigade to the United Nations standby arrangement. The performance of the Indian troops has won universal recognition. India is one of the few countries which can sustain large-scale troop commitment over prolonged periods. Our participation in United Nations peacekeeping does not stem from considerations of narrow gain. We have participated because we have been wanted and because we have been asked, but most of all because of our solidarity and empathy with the affected countries and with the international community, as well as because of our commitment to the United Nations and to the cause of international peace and security. India has offered its candidature for the non- permanent seat on the Security Council from Asia for 1997 and 1998. Our candidature is rooted in the criteria stipulated in the Charter: the principle of equity, our unwavering commitment to the United Nations, and to the cause of multilateralism, and our 50-year-long contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security and to the other purposes and principles of the Organization. India has a unique record of supporting United Nations activities against apartheid and colonialism. We have richly contributed to the debates on development, disarmament and human rights. We seek the onerous responsibility of Council membership convinced of the support of this Assembly. I would like to take this opportunity to pay a warm tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, for his successful stewardship during a most difficult period. His services are a distinct asset to this world body. Let me briefly refer to India’s interaction with the world. We have witnessed some remarkable changes in the last few years. New vistas for greater cooperation are now visible. The challenge lies in effectively seizing the opportunities. We attach the highest importance to developing cordial and friendly relations with our neighbours with a view to promoting peace, stability and mutual confidence in the region. We also seek to develop stronger economic and commercial relations within the region, for all-around prosperity. As current Chairman of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), it will be our endeavour to promote multifaceted cooperation in all spheres. 15 The economic reforms embarked upon since 1991 have provided India with a new outward orientation that seeks greater integration of India into the global marketplace. Today, India is branching out and adding to the substantive content of its relations with individual countries of the region and beyond, developing and building upon regional cooperation arrangements involving SAARC, the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), the ASEAN Regional Forum, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (APEC) and the Indian Ocean Rim, to name a few. Convinced of the need and utility of enhanced South- South cooperation, we accord the highest priority to our relations with Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia. We are proud to have been associated with Africa and its causes in the United Nations since the inception of the world body. We appreciate the role played by the Organization of African Unity (OAU), which has striven to find regional solutions to African problems. Its efforts must be supplemented by the United Nations. The scramble for Africa in the nineteenth century was for African land and resources. We hope that the closing years of the present century will see a scramble to redress African problems, the genesis of which largely lies outside the region. The United Nations must lead international efforts to meet Africa’s needs and aspirations. We are deeply concerned at the recent serious incidents of violence in the West Bank and Gaza and by Israeli authorities’ opening of a tunnel beneath Haram Al-Sharif — the Temple Mount — in East Jerusalem, which resulted in the tragic loss of several innocent lives and large-scale injuries following violent clashes. The current situation underlines the need for immediate and effective measures to end the violence and to create a climate that would enable purposeful negotiations based on a recognition of the underlying causes of the conflict. These developments also serve to emphasize the need to build further on the agreements and understandings already reached. In the wave of the recent political changes in the Middle East, India is encouraged by the reiteration by all parties of their continued commitment to the Middle East peace process based on the framework established by the Madrid Conference. However, we are concerned that these reaffirmations do not appear to have manifested themselves in commensurate progress in the peace process. India urges all parties to intensify their efforts towards realizing the mutually agreed objectives of the Middle East peace process, keeping in view that achieving durable peace and stability in the Middle East requires solving the Palestinian issue. India has ties dating back to early history with Afghanistan, a country with which we also share bonds of kinship, culture and religion. We are deeply saddened by the continued violence and loss of life in that country. India stands for the unity, independence and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. We urge all Afghan parties to resolve their differences through early peaceful dialogue and negotiations. We support the efforts of the Secretary- General and his special representative to bring about a solution in Afghanistan. The Non-Aligned Movement figures firmly in India’s world view and constitutes an important plank in our foreign policy. We remain firmly committed to the philosophy and values of the Non-Aligned Movement. For us, non-alignment means independence of thought and autonomy of choice. It also means working in cooperation with the largest number of countries. Last year’s non- aligned summit in Colombia reinforced our faith in the ability and resilience of the Movement, its responsiveness to change and its effectiveness in today’s global situation. India will be privileged to host the next ministerial conference of the non-aligned countries in New Delhi in 1997. India is a progressive country charting a balanced course between economic growth and social justice, and science and tradition. It is committed to the values of peace, non-violence, coexistence, pluralism, tolerance and constructive cooperation. Culturally, India is a bridge between traditional cultures and emergent trends. Politically, India will remain anchored in a pluralistic, liberal democracy that can provide space for all its constituents and internal interlocutors. Before I conclude, I am reminded of an ancient Rig Vedic hymn which reads: “O citizens of the world! Live in harmony and concord Be organized and cooperative Speak with one voice And make your resolutions with one Mind.” May this invocation to harmony, cooperation, consensus and solidarity continue to guide our deliberations and actions. 16 ﻿Guided by feelings of great respect for Malaysia, which plays an increasingly significant role in regional and world affairs, I welcome the election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly the experienced and well-known representative of that country, Mr. Razali Ismail. We, the newly independent States of the former Soviet Union, are celebrating this year the fifth anniversary of our independence and national statehood. My country is successfully concluding a stage in its structural reforms and has achieved macroeconomic stabilization. We have managed to halt the decline in production and this year we expect an increase in production of 3 to 4 per cent. The annual rate of inflation is not expected to exceed 26 per cent. We are finalizing the legal basis for a market economy and for building new institutions. The goal now is to join the World Trade Organization. Regional cooperation is gaining in strength. In the context of the Central Asian Union, the Economic Cooperation Organization and the Commonwealth of Independent States, we are creating conditions conducive to the free movement of goods, capital, services and labour. Entirely new areas are now linked by transportation lines, and the groundwork is being laid for long-term, comprehensive efforts to ensure the sustainable development of the Central Asian region. We, the newly independent States, are rapidly becoming involved in the globalization process of the world economy; we are deriving clear benefits from this as well as significant damage and losses. Alongside the liberalization of trade and the opening of State borders, our fragile economies are being affected by transnational organized crime, including drug trafficking. Drug dealers are corrupting State institutions and are eroding the basis of our young statehood. Drug trafficking and arms trade are flourishing in conflict areas. It is evident that powerful international criminal forces, which are reaping profits from this, are interested in the continuation and exacerbation of conflicts in Tajikistan and Afghanistan. Drugs have a destructive effect on weak and powerful countries alike. Local capacities and international assistance from donor countries to fight drug trafficking pale in comparison to the scale and geo-economic destructive effect of the drug trade. Five Central Asian countries were the second group, following Eastern European nations, to sign a memorandum of understanding with the United Nations International Drug Control Programme. We continue to fight this evil through regional cooperation. A subregional programme for Central Asia provides an opportunity to develop projects that provide legitimate alternatives to people engaged in the cultivation and transport of illegal crops. My country welcomes consideration of this issue at a special session of the General Assembly to be held in 1998, and is convinced that the world community will triple its support to programmes to stop the flow of drugs to the countries of the North. Sustainable development formed the basis of the national human development strategy prepared on the initiative of the President of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan, Mr. Askar Akayev. During the past decade, from Vienna to Istanbul, the international community, under the aegis of the United Nations, has defined goals, tasks and priorities for world social development. Kyrgyzstan 10 intends creatively and fully to implement the decisions taken. We look forward with great interest to the discussions on Agenda 21 that are due to take place at the special session of the General Assembly to be convened in 1997. Countries with economies in transition are going through a difficult period of economic rehabilitation. The problems of attracting direct foreign investment are particularly acute. We are inspired by the experience of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe that have successfully managed the transition to a market economy. Many of them have joined the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and established national export and import banks and State insurance facilities for private enterprises abroad. Today it is becoming increasingly clear that timely and adequate assistance and credits from the international community, combined with enormous efforts by the countries themselves, are enabling countries in transition to emerge rapidly from their crises and thus join the group of development donors. The effect of such a multi-layered approach to resolving common development problems is clear, and there is no doubt that several post-Soviet independent countries could shortly be in the vanguard of this progress. For a long time much has been said about the need for cooperation between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions in strengthening peace and resolving economic development problems. In recent years a huge number of regional alliances have come into being in response to contemporary challenges, and they are actively cooperating with one another. Today, it would be difficult to overestimate the importance of their role in resolving inter-ethnic disputes and conflicts and developing trade, transport, communications and sociocultural relationships in these regions. The United Nations could systematize and summarize the successful work of these unions and alliances, which are like blood vessels in the way they link the United Nations system with the World Bank, regional banks and the International Monetary Fund, offering an effective regional approach to dealing with the entire range of complex issues on today’s world agenda. Geo-economic regions such as the Fergana valley are facing a great number of acute problems, including unemployment, environmental deterioration, poverty, inequality of women and all types of crime. They can, and should, be a focal point for the attention and effort of all countries concerned in Central Asia, for the United Nations system, and for donor countries. Consistent and vigorous efforts to resolve the urgent development problems of this densely populated valley will also act as necessary preventive actions to strengthen security, stability and peace between the States of the region. My country wholly supports the efforts of the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States, to bring about a peaceful settlement in the inter-Tajik conflict. We commend the contributions made by Russia and Iran, and welcome the mediating role of Turkmenistan, which has opened a goodwill office for conducting the inter-Tajik talks. Every conflict has a recognizable identity. It is time for the United Nations to synthesize and develop the legal basis, procedures, and methods of work for each party involved, whether they are representatives of international organizations, the parties to the conflict or various working groups. The United Nations should have regular consultations with the countries in the region and with the regional alliances. Because of the protracted nature of the crisis, which has caused enormous suffering to innocent civilians, and given the widespread consequences of the hostilities for neighbouring countries, we believe that a solution to the inter-Tajik conflict should be the basis for the long-term sustainable development of that country and for the whole of Central Asia. The exodus of refugees from Tajikistan is continuing. This is a painful subject for the people of Tajikistan, and we feel for them in their suffering. The ratification by Kyrgyzstan this year of the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees of and its 1967 Protocol was not merely a demonstration of our respect for human rights but reflected our willingness to share the international community’s burden of responsibility for providing assistance to people who are forced to leave their homes to seek protection for themselves and their children. The conference on the problem of refugees and displaced persons in the Commonwealth of Independent States, which was organized by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva in May 1996, demonstrated the international community’s full support for refugees from Tajikistan. The humanitarian situation remains critical, particularly in mountainous areas, which are very hard to reach, and especially now, with winter approaching. We are convinced that not only the United Nations and its specialized agencies but the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Union and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development will work together successfully to promote a peaceful settlement of the conflict and alleviate the hardship and pain of the long- suffering Tajik people. With regard to recent events in Afghanistan, we believe that a comprehensive political settlement must be found to the Afghan conflict, that territorial integrity cannot be ensured and that non-interference in the internal affairs of this sovereign country must be respected. We call on the Security Council to work for national reconciliation among the warring factions and to seek an end to the long, debilitating war that has destabilized the Asian continent as a whole. Half a century of experience of world political development under the aegis of the United Nations leads us to conclude that there should be more non-conflict, sustainably developing nuclear-weapon-free zones. This would guarantee peace and security. The long-awaited hour has come: the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty has been signed by an overwhelming majority of States Members of the United Nations. When I signed the Treaty on behalf of my people, as the representative of a country that until recently had been squeezed from both sides by two of the world’s largest nuclear-weapon-testing areas, I experienced a special feeling of satisfaction and hope for the future of my country and for the whole world. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty are major milestones on the road to a future nuclear- weapon-free world. We are resolved to make Central Asia a nuclear-weapon-free zone. Support and appropriate guarantees from the nuclear States would constitute an important prerequisite for that achievement. The Kyrgyz Republic is in favour of reforming the United Nations. The permanent membership of the Security Council should be enlarged to include Germany, Japan and representatives of Africa, Asia and Latin America. Equitable geographical representation would also mean an increase the number of non-permanent members of the Council. The nature of the interaction between the Security Council and the General Assembly should also change, and become more transparent. Since becoming Members of the United Nations less than five years ago, the newly independent States have become full-fledged members of the United Nations family. We, like others, were pleased about the establishment of peace in Haiti and Bosnia, and paid tribute to the many people who lost their lives, in whatever part of the world. With regard to regional alliances, we are developing our relations equally with West and East, South and North. Three countries of our group — Kyrgyzstan, Kazakstan and Uzbekistan — are creating a Central Asian peacekeeping battalion to act as a future reserve force of Blue Helmets. On a basis of mutual respect, Russia, Kazakstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan this year concluded a treaty on confidence-building measures in the military sphere on the border with the People’s Republic of China. We are determined to learn every step of the way. We, together with the other Member States, are on the road to the twenty-first century. By combining our efforts we shall be worthy to meet its new challenges.   ﻿Last year, we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations with much fanfare and glowing tributes. The organs of this body were dissected and properly examined and the findings were encouraging. The prevailing opinion is that the strengths of this institution far outweigh its weaknesses. However, we cannot be complacent. As our Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Sir James Mitchell, said when he addressed the fiftieth session: “Living institutions, like anything biological, need the nurture of fresh nutrients, fresh ideas. A living thing either improves or perishes.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 40th meeting, p. 49) Mr. Razali has assumed the presidency after the period of stock-taking and at a time when we look with renewed confidence towards the United Nations. His passion for innovation will serve him well. As he presides over this re- energized body, I wish to congratulate him on his election to the presidency. Let me take this opportunity to extend to his predecessor our best wishes and deep appreciation for the competent manner in which he presided over the last historic session. As the twenty-first century approaches, we must ask ourselves the following questions: What of the future? Will our children survive? Will we be at peace with our fellow men? The picture looks bleak. We are still plagued by persistent poverty, disease, hunger, environmental degradation and spiritual pollution, wanton acts of terrorism, the drug menace, domestic disturbances and regional conflicts. There is still hope so long as we see each other as friends and neighbours rather than as competitors. If we pool our resources for the enhancement of mankind, the world will be a much better place. We have witnessed over the past year a trail of terrorist destruction and death. In our view, all terrorists are cowards who rely on fear and destabilization to achieve their sinister ends. What triumph can there be in the murder and disfiguring of innocent people? This is obviously the product of sick minds. These faceless criminals who perform these acts, sometimes with the tacit approval of authority, have no place in the community of nations. My delegation is calling for another conference to deal with the root causes of terrorism. Such a conference must involve this entire body so that the views of small and mighty nations on the matter can be expressed. As the new century approaches, our children must be able to play in public parks without having to look over their shoulders. When we travel, we must be able to view the passengers next to us as new-found friends rather than potential executioners. Why do we continue to stockpile weapons of mass destruction? The aim of these weapons is to kill. Killing human beings should not be regarded as a sport. Life will always be man’s most treasured possession. In our peaceful region, we are strangers to the world of such deadly arsenals and will continue to denounce their use. We are delighted to be associated with the passage of the Australian resolution on the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty. Any step, however small, towards the curbing 14 of the arms race and the eventual elimination of weapons must be viewed as positive. One of the most formidable challenges of our time is the protection of the environment. The threats which confront us are daunting; global warming, desertification and deforestation are among the many. Environmental protection is the key to our survival. Mankind is faced with a choice: either save the environment or perish. The suffering in Burundi, Somalia, Liberia, Rwanda and Bosnia cannot go unnoticed. The international community can do much more to help the dispossessed and the hungry of these troubled lands. After all, should we not be our brother’s keeper? I come from a small but proud country. Our people believe in industry and hard work. The banana industry is the mainstay of our economy. But our very existence is under serious threat from forces larger and more powerful than ourselves. I speak not in anger, only in pain and helplessness. How else can we feel when those who have the capacity to help us seek our destruction? If the forces of indifference and greed were to succeed, our society would be thrown out of gear and the democracy which we so cherish will go up in flames. Our entire population has been sensitized to our banana woes and the people have vented their frustration by writing thousands of letters to those who may hold the key to our survival. We wish to thank all those who have come to our assistance, be they in Europe or elsewhere, and we sincerely hope that they will continue to lend a helping hand. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is deeply concerned about the use of illegal drugs and drug trafficking. The magnitude of this problem transcends national boundaries and calls for increased cooperation on a multilateral level. The influence of the drug barons runs very deep. Sometimes they take on the characteristics of power elites. We firmly believe that renewed international efforts can go a long way towards the eradication of this menace, which contaminates both body and mind. While we welcome the recent elections in Bosnia, we are troubled by developments in the Persian Gulf. We sincerely hope that the situation will normalize itself as soon as possible, since an escalation of the crisis would be of benefit to no one. The Middle East is another area of concern. We hope that the recent peace talks between the Israelis and the Palestine Liberation Organization will bear fruit. Much has been achieved over the past two decades and it is expected that the next century will bring peace to the troubled people of these ancient lands. I now turn my attention to the vexing question of the resumed participation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the United Nations. This founding member of the United Nations has been excluded from this body for a quarter of a century. How does one reconcile this with the principles of parallel representation of States and of universality? It is time for the Republic of China on Taiwan to be readmitted to this body. In our view, the country not only possesses the attributes of nationhood, but it is well endowed to contribute to the development of Member States of this body. Its economic success is a model for developing countries. The country has also made democratic strides. I wish through this forum to congratulate the Republic of China on Taiwan on the holding of its first direct presidential election. It is really a triumph of the democratic process. All States have not embraced this process. Despite the adoption and entry into force of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, we are shocked by the incidence of gross violations of the fundamental rights of the child. Sexual abuse, prostitution and child labour are but a few of the problems that dehumanize our children. My delegation joins in the call for measures to be taken, not only for the universal ratification of the Convention, but also for the effective implementation of this instrument. There has been much discussion about the reform of the Security Council. Brilliant ideas have been put forward from all quarters. Our own view is that the Security Council must be restructured to reflect an equitable geographic distribution. After all, big Powers do not have a monopoly on knowledge or truth. And in this body, all nations should be treated as equals. History has saddled the United Nations with a heavy burden of responsibility and, as we look towards the twenty-first century, we must seize every opportunity to achieve the goals and ideals enshrined in the Charter. There is a great deal to be done in the area of social and economic development, but we can do it once we have the political will and the unity of purpose. 15  ﻿The course of history appears to unwind rapidly and with it, events occur, pass or recede into time, imbuing the lives of our societies with the dual sensation of dizzying progress and desperately slow evolution. It is essential for people to live in harmony and to face, with a feeling of unity, goodwill and sharing, the great challenges which they could not overcome alone. That is why we are gathered here. We believe that, without each other, we are weak and vulnerable and that, in order to live better, it is essential that we be able to share and work together. Upon reflection, however, it becomes more and more clear that some of the countries that are developing more rapidly, thanks to the advantages of technological and scientific progress, are losing interest in those still struggling to survive and still facing economic difficulties, food shortages and problems of health and education. To all this can be added other, equally serious evils: the effects of drugs, alcoholism, criminal behaviour and prostitution in all its forms. In our international forums we often speak of security, of action to combat international terrorism and of the war on organized crime. Just recently, we were talking about working together against paedophilia. These are such horrible, painful things, but unfortunately so characteristic of our times. So how can we not strongly condemn these attacks on human security and dignity? But it is even more important that our rejection of these crimes affecting the world be felt with the same degree of intensity, regardless of the country where they are committed — especially 18 when some countries lack the means to combat the crimes. Should not the spirit of solidarity imply a concern for the well-being and security of all the inhabitants of the world? Should not each and every nation shed its selfish, hypocritical attitudes? By not seeing further than our own interests, we treat others as our lowly tools. And yet we are well aware that feelings of frustration and injustice are the source of so much violence which so frequently plunges the world into mourning and makes people fear for their security. Therefore, if we want to world to develop harmoniously, we must break the bonds of this indolent selfishness in which people see everything around them through the prism of self-satisfaction. If the existence of the United Nations is now threatened and if serious problems are undermining it and weakening the international community, it is precisely because the strongest partners will not agree to adopt the rules that govern any family, in which everyone’s opinions are heard and discussed and the strong support and help the weak. Instead, what do we observe? The most-favoured nations seem to carry little about and refuse resolutely to address the realities handicapping the developing countries. Calculations, assessments, criteria are separated into categories, mechanically, as if nations and peoples can be reduced to mere statistics. It must be said that the generous efforts of some rich countries, while helping developing countries, also benefit, one way or another, directly and indirectly, the stingiest countries. Are we still seeking justice, equality and sustainable development throughout the world? In any case, the image the world projects of itself does not reflect these ideals, but rather two poles spinning further and further apart: the pole of wealth and the pole of poverty. It’s not that there has been a lack of international meetings, at the highest levels, to try to find more effective solutions to reduce the level of poverty, increase the equity of trade and so forth. But it seems that, with each meeting, these problems get worse. The firm ground of progress is crumbling under the feet of the developing countries and their future — given their current relations with the Powers holding the reins of the global economy — seems quite uncertain. This is especially true for the small island developing States like the Seychelles, whose only resources are the precarious revenues of tourism, which is subject to so many vicissitudes, and fishing. Their meagre resources, pumped into a network of tremendous competition, require them to make titanic efforts. Like many other countries whose territories were long exploited by a great Power and then suffered the repercussions of being suddenly abandoned without compensation, the Seychelles’ economy is even more vulnerable than it was before being buffeted by this phenomenon. As they do every year, many speakers have underscored the importance of preserving the environment in the context of sustainable development. The President of the United States himself underscored this fact: (spoke in English) “Our planet is safer because of our common efforts to close Chernobyl, to address the challenges of climate change, to protect the world’s forests and oceans. Now we must uphold our duty as custodians of our environment so that our children will inherit an even healthier planet.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Plenary Meetings, 6th meeting, p. 14) (spoke in French) And, at the annual meeting of the Bretton Woods institutions, United States Vice-President Albert Gore Jr. also made this point. (spoke in English) “But it also means giving greater attention to broad issues that I firmly believe must shape and inform everything we do in our quest for equitable and sustainable global prosperity. The first of these is a commitment to sustainable development and our environment. We now know with perfect clarity that economic development and growth cannot ignore ecological realities. We know that investments that genuinely reduce poverty in an equitable and enduring way are investments that take their environmental implications fully into account. Not only is such an approach consistent with our development objectives, but it will also be much more cost effective. Win-win situations are not always available, but this is one of them and it is available.” (spoke in French) 19 And yet, many of our countries, although their survival depends on the entire world preserving the environment, find themselves left by the wayside when certain great Powers — having no further need of the hospitality of their shores for their military or other installations — light- heartedly depart, leaving behind them a trail of debris and other things and leaving it up to the countries themselves to do the rest. As for the damages and costs — let’s not talk about them. As for the reforms of the institutions of the United Nations system, the Seychelles is in favour of all proposals aimed at improving the representation of the smaller States in our work. We believe that the international community must hear our voices, understand us and deal with the specifics of our situation. Furthermore, to be more objective, the assessment criteria now being massively applied to all the developing countries, which require more focused attention, should be re-examined in the light of the vulnerability index. The index is too easily ignored, but is nonetheless very important in the establishment of the objective data defining the profile of any given country. The fashion for what is commonly called “democracy” is sweeping the surface of the earth, and one of the principal criteria which the developed countries — democracy’s self-appointed guarantors — use for deciding eligibility for development assistance is the establishment of a democratic system. Shouldn’t that respectable institution, democracy, be manifest within the Organization itself when it elects a competent and honest leader in whom to duly vest its authority? In seeking to impose its logic by one way or another, in seeking to make its choice the majority’s choice, we are far from honouring the principle on which democracy is founded: majority rule. In other words, for a matter such as the renewal of the mandate of the United Nations Secretary-General, we should better gauge the pros and cons, leaving aside those which may seem a little too individualistic. We must be able to accept, particularly if qualifications justify it, the choice of the majority of the Members of this eminently democratic institution: the United Nations. To conclude, I express my best wishes for greater concord in the future of the United Nations, which represents the voice and the will of the peoples of the world, so that the endeavour to which so much effort and generosity has been devoted may produce decisions and actions that will create for all the children, women and men of the Earth a way of life in which relations become more humane and thus more conducive to the advent of a harmonious global society.  ﻿Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election and to wish you success in carrying out your duties during the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I wish all of us a productive and fruitful session of the General Assembly and assure members of the full cooperation of the delegation of Latvia in ensuring the success of their work. “Reform” was a much-used word during the previous session of this body. The word “crisis” may become just as prevalent during the fifty-first session. In this connection, I should like to recall the words of United States President John Fitzgerald Kennedy: “When written in Chinese, the word crisis' is composed of two characters. One represents danger and the other represents opportunity.” Since joining the United Nations five years ago, Latvia has consistently supported reforms so as to avoid crises. Our 50-year absence from the international community makes us especially appreciate the fact that this rostrum is the one place in the world from which all nations can speak with an equal voice about matters of global importance. A statement from this rostrum is a means rather than an end. It can be but the first of many steps to a level of human development that Immanuel Kant characterized as eternal peace. Too often the closest we come to attaining the ideal of a world without wars and the United Nations as the maintainer of international peace and security is the establishment of the mechanisms needed to halt armed conflict. In this connection, may I recall that the joint Estonian-Latvian-Lithuanian peacekeeping battalion, whose training period will conclude next year, will be a contribution of the Baltic States to the strengthening of the mechanisms for peacekeeping and peacemaking established by the United Nations. The current world situation forces us to question how often we have been too late, how often we have been found lacking in wisdom, foresight and effective diplomacy in our attempts to resolve disputes peacefully. Somalia, former Yugoslavia, Chechnya, Rwanda — these are not the only areas that have suffered recently. These are problems for the entire global community, not only the United Nations. It makes us think how far we are from the ideal of eternal world peace, which few believe possible, but whose realization is one of the fundamental purposes of the United Nations. We all agree that peace is a fundamental value and that war means catastrophe and destruction. Still, we live in a world in which armed conflicts constantly arise; where some profit from war; and where relationships of dominance, the rules of the game, and differing values do not exclude war as a mechanism for pursuing national interests. Reducing the possibility of local conflicts is an important aspect of global security. Any local armed conflict affects the global society as a whole, especially in our rapidly changing and shrinking world, in which the notions of distance, speed and information change rapidly. International terrorism, the illegal trade in weapons and narcotics, people fleeing their homes and other consequences accompany local conflicts, but do not limit themselves to the conflict zone alone. Political instability and racial, religious and ethnic discord, combined with low standards of living, breed armed conflicts. As preventive measures, the United Nations must continue to promote actively a respect for human rights, tolerance, the universality of the United Nations, disarmament and the implementation of arms-control agreements, and support the economies of States that may need assistance. We hail the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which has opened for signature and ratification after a long and difficult search for compromise. I intend to sign the CTBT today. We are convinced that this Treaty can move the world closer to peace. Latvia considers it imperative that work be continued on the control of conventional weapons. We support the chemical weapons Convention, even though we are concerned that the two largest producers of chemical weapons have not yet ratified the Convention. 5 Latvia believes that universal respect for human rights should continue to be a priority of the United Nations and its Members. Taking into account the ever-increasing tasks of the United Nations human rights system, increased allocation of resources devoted to United Nations human rights activities is an absolute necessity. Double standards on human rights are intolerable, and Latvia devotes particular attention to this. The guidelines for the global protection of human rights are the documents adopted at the World Conference on Human Rights. Countries should implement these guidelines and share with others their experience in doing so. In Latvia these guidelines have been applied to a unique demographic situation caused by 50 years of occupation. In accordance with a recommendation of the World Conference on Human Rights, Latvia has established an independent institution for the protection of human rights: the State Human Rights Office. This office has a mandate to hear and investigate complaints from Latvia’s residents, inform members of society about human rights, and make recommendations to the Government and Parliament on legislation affecting human rights. In establishing the State Human Rights Office, Latvia received invaluable assistance from the United Nations Development Programme, the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights. The United Nations must continue to protect those values that engender a respect for human rights, tolerance, the rejection of violence and the promotion of peace. It is not weapons or physical force that protect homes, people and countries. Rather, true security depends, inter alia, on good relations with all neighbours and on a strong economy. Latvia is successfully implementing such a policy. Our aim is to achieve rapid economic growth and to attract foreign investment in Latvia. Already this year, Latvia has one of the lowest rates of inflation in Eastern Europe, along with a stable currency and rapidly rising indexes of development. We have a well developed port system, including the world’s second largest potassium- salts-loading harbour and one of Europe’s largest harbours for the transit of petroleum products. Latvia is the geographical centre of the Baltic States and is a natural economic bridge between East and West. Our country belongs to the European family of democratic States, sharing common values and cooperating for their protection. Integration in the European and transatlantic structures is the highest priority for Latvia. We are actively working for the integration of Latvia into the European and global economic systems, as well as for a close partnership in the European continent, on both the governmental and non-governmental levels. Latvia is also participating in efforts to improve the work of the United Nations so that the Organization can react more effectively to the challenges of our time. In support of the restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields, and in recognition of the desirability of frequent rotation of Member States represented on important United Nations bodies, Latvia has for the first time ever presented its candidature for a seat on the Economic and Social Council beginning in 1997. A year has passed since the United Nations celebrated its fiftieth anniversary, when much was heard about the urgency of reform of the Organization. Yet during the last year Member States have been unable to agree on these long-awaited reforms. If Member States continue not to make decisions, the United Nations will slowly but inevitably lose its ability to pursue its global goals effectively. As part of the reform efforts, it is important that the United Nations periodically enunciate and evaluate priorities to be pursued, in particular in times when resources are limited but the demand for them is growing. One cause of the crisis facing the United Nations is the financial situation. Each Member State's financial contribution to the Organization must reflect its capacity to pay. Contributions can be a great burden for developing countries and countries with economies in transition that are overassessed. A future system of contributions must be fair, transparent and elastic in order that it may readily adapt to economic changes. Latvia would like to repeat its view that new and innovative financing mechanisms are a necessity. It supports the current effort of the Economic and Social Council to study such mechanisms for the purpose of financing development that is sustainable. The introduction of new financing mechanisms and other financial management tools can only improve the currently weak financial discipline of Member States. Latvia supports reforms that would result in the reduction of the number of subsidiary bodies of the General Assembly and the number of administrative structures in the Secretariat, as well as a full introduction of methods of modern management. 6 With regard to the reform of the Security Council, a priority should be to adjust its membership in order to achieve equitable geographic representation and to respond to the increase in the membership of the United Nations in recent decades. The effectiveness of the work of the Security Council must be increased further by making its working methods even more transparent and the exchange of information with non-members more intense than at present. Latvia is a country that is attached to the ideals of peace, democracy and human rights. It identifies itself with the efforts of the global society to maintain and realize these ideals. It is an active member of the community of nations. This, we are convinced, is the genuine road to security and social and economic prosperity for our country and for the world. ﻿I have the particular pleasure of congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly and of expressing our satisfaction at seeing in such a high position the representative of a country and a region so widely appreciated for their traditions and dynamism. I am convinced that your experience and your qualities as an eminent diplomat will facilitate the proceedings and the successful outcome of this session. I would like also to express our thanks to your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for the able manner in which he directed the previous session of the General Assembly. Allow me to take this opportunity to express our high appreciation for the remarkable activity carried out with such dedication since 1992 by the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to the benefit of the United Nations. The Assembly has gathered again not only to review recent regional and world developments or to survey last year’s results, but also to discuss especially the prospects and challenges we are facing at the threshold of the twenty-first century. We are essentially called upon to reflect and act jointly on establishing an international system that can guarantee security, stability, progress and prosperity for all. The United Nations is certainly the pillar of such a system. The conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty, which we have just signed, is proof of this. We are among those who consider that we now have a historic opportunity to insure world security and stability through the establishment of democratic institutions, sustainable development, respect for human rights and social justice. This requires better international cooperation and a new spirit of partnership among all countries. Romania intends to contribute to this common effort through consolidation of its achievements in the building of a new democratic society based on the rule of law, respect for human rights and a market economy, with a view to establishing itself as a stabilizing factor in the region. In referring to some of the significant events of the past year, I will recall that our macro-economic policy and the progress we have made in the establishment of institutions adapted to a market economy have led to a steady improvement of economic performance. The private sector has become preponderant in our gross domestic product. In order to overcome the difficulties of transition and to prepare for integration into the European Union, Romania has received substantial assistance from the European Union and its members. The United States has granted Romania permanent most favoured nation status. My country has become a full member of the Central European Initiative and next year will become part of the Central European free trade agreement. The signing of a Treaty of Understanding, Cooperation and Good- Neighbourliness between Romania and Hungary was a significant event not only for our historic reconciliation, but also for stability in Central Europe. I would also like to take note of my country’s active participation in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s Partnership for Peace programme and in the Implementation Forces operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These strengthen our belief that a favourable decision will be taken on our integration into the Atlantic Alliance. At the subregional level, Romania supported the measures aimed at the advancement of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation and of the process of stability and good-neighbourly relations in south-east Europe, which is also the subject of initiatives by the European Union and the United States. Aware of the importance of the democratization process, the Romanian Government has decided to host the third International Conference on New or Restored Democracies in Bucharest in early September 1997. All these developments and initiatives testify to my country’s willingness to act as a credible and responsible partner in international affairs and as a stabilizing factor and source of security in Europe and the world. On the occasion of the commemorative meeting held on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the entry into force of the Charter of United Nations, numerous heads of State — including the President of Romania — pointed out that the Organization can and should play a greater role in international relations in order to respond more effectively to global challenges. It is becoming increasingly evident that we are at a point in history when numerous problems have to be reconsidered from a global perspective if we are to forge a common vision wherein the individual is the focus of our policies. The main problem to be solved at the dawn of the third millennium is finding the appropriate synthesis between the general aspiration to universality and the individual aspiration to identity. The series of major global conferences organized by the United Nations over these past five years have led to a new integrated concept of sustainable development focused on the human being. Now that we are in the process of revitalizing, strengthening and reforming the United Nations system, including a limited enlargement of the Security Council, we consider it timely and useful to capitalize on these achievements. It would also be desirable to agree on an integrated common vision of development and on a list of priorities that would inspire and guide the general process of renewal of the United Nations. By acting in this way, we will be able to facilitate our current objective, as long as the working groups established by the General Assembly hasten their achievement of balanced and realistic results. Along with the other Member States, Romania also considers that the moment has come to proceed to an expansion of the membership of the Security Council, both in the category of permanent members — for which Germany and Japan are preeminently qualified by their importance in international affairs — as in the category of non-permanent members. This should be done through an agreed formula, based on proposals already put forward, such as the Italian, which represents a good basis for ensuring that an increased number of States — including those of central and eastern Europe — be represented in the Council. In short, a special meeting of the General Assembly should be called on the results of the reform of the United Nations system. Having made these general remarks, I would like to make a few comments on particular issues of our agenda. First, with regard to crisis and conflict management, it is clearly and primarily the responsibility of the parties directly involved to put an end to conflict and to restore peace and security. We underscore the importance we attach to dialogue as a means of reaching negotiated solutions by the parties directly concerned. We will contribute to the establishment of normal relations and the full implementation of the Dayton Agreement among the countries of the former Yugoslavia, including the lifting of the sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We welcomed with interest the initiatives on the economic reconstruction of the region and are fully prepared to take an active part in this process, including through joint cooperation projects with neighbouring countries. We express our deep concern over the recent worrying developments in the Middle East peace process 2 which are the object of Security Council resolution 1073 (1996). We welcome the United States initiative aimed at the resumption of negotiations between the parties on the basis of the principles agreed upon in Madrid and Oslo, as they represent the only way to build a just and lasting peace. Romania recognizes the necessity of strengthening regional economic cooperation in support of the peace process in the Middle East and is actively involved in the multilateral working groups. We are still concerned about the ongoing, complex and uncertain situation in the eastern part of the Republic of Moldova and we reaffirm the necessity for an unconditional and orderly withdrawal of foreign troops from the Transdniester region. We accord due attention to all initiatives aimed at any process that could lead to a lasting peace in the Korean peninsula and in other regions of tension and conflict. As the main guarantor of international peace and security, the United Nations should participate more actively in the prevention and management of crises by employing flexible peace instruments, including preventive diplomacy and peace-keeping operations. The experience gained by contributing States — including Romania, particularly as a result of its significant participation in the United Nations peace-keeping Mission in Angola — highlights the necessity of increasing rapid-reaction capacity by improving the standby system and other measures aimed at the rapid deployment of new peace-keeping operations and the efficient management of current ones. With regard to sanctions, Romania, which has been deeply affected by the strict implementation of economic sanctions, especially in the case of the former Yugoslavia, believes that the United Nations should play a larger role in the process of compensating third countries so that the efficiency and credibility of Security Council actions in this area can be preserved. Secondly, I would like to make some comments in connection with non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament. As a party to the process since its inception, Romania welcomed with satisfaction the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty. This major step represents a crucial stage in the fulfilment of one of the main objectives in the implementation of relevant obligations of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The establishment of nuclear-weapon- free zones in South-East Asia, the Pacific and Africa is aimed at the same objective. Romania will continue to contribute to the promotion of the review process of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, both before the next Review Conference in the year 2000, the preparatory committee of which will convene in 1997. We will also give equal attention to the speedy commencement of negotiations on a treaty banning the production of fissile materials, as well as to the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and On Their Destruction and the establishment of an efficient verification mechanism. We again invite all States to consider establishing a code of conduct for conventional arms transfers which will increase transparency and confidence among States in that field. Romania supports all efforts leading to the total ban of anti-personnel mines. To this end, in 1995, the Romanian Government declared a moratorium, which will be extended this year, and has begun the ratification procedures of the additional Protocols to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons. My third and last thought relates to the economic and social areas, where we believe there are good prospects for the adoption of the Agenda for Development. Romania endorses the idea that the United Nations can and should contribute to implementing a new global partnership for development among developing countries, developed countries and multilateral institutions. We noted with interest the inclusion of this concept in the economic communiqué adopted at the recent Group of Seven summit meeting in Lyon, as well as the recognition of the fact that the new partnership should be beneficial to all and based on a spirit of solidarity that will distribute responsibility among all partners. Within this framework, the United Nations and its institutions should pursue reform and adjustment efforts with a view to improving their performance in the building of consensus in the area of development. We welcome the results of the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Midrand as an essential step in its renewal. The session paved the way for the reform of its intergovernmental structure, and the reorientation of its priorities in order to develop cooperation with the World Trade Organization and the Bretton Woods financial institutions. This will 3 lead to the integration of developing countries and countries in transition into the global commercial and financial system. We also note the measures recently taken to strengthen the Economic and Social Council’s central role in establishing and coordinating joint policies, as well as the initiatives of the Economic Commission for Europe and other regional Commissions in redefining their priorities. The Economic and Social Council has the responsibility to ensure the follow-up to the major international conferences. We will work together in preparing the 1997 special session of the General Assembly in order to improve the implementation of agreements reached on environmental protection at the Rio Conference and at the Vienna regional conference on the review of the Social Summit in Copenhagen. It is worth mentioning that a subregional conference recently held in Bucharest provided a useful evaluation of the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action on the status of women in Central and Eastern Europe. We support the United Nations fight against the abuse of drugs and illicit drug trafficking, including all forms of related crimes. We intend to participate in the preparations of the 1998 special session of the General Assembly devoted to this scourge. The international community must also be mobilized to confront the rapid rise in transnational organized crime and terrorism. We encourage more active participation on the part of the United Nations. In this respect, we welcome the proposal put forward here last week by President Kwasniewski of Poland. Development assistance requires a new and better response from the international community in the promotion of our common objective of sustainable and socially equitable growth focused on the human being and on the protection of the environment. Aid flows should be more efficient and directed towards the countries in real need. Romania maintains good cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme and its resident representative in Bucharest, other funds and development programmes — including the United Nations Population Fund and the United Nations Children’s Fund — and with the specialized agencies and the Bretton Woods institutions. We insure that the assistance we receive is used for structural reforms, and macroeconomic stabilization and that it likewise contributes to the creation of favourable conditions for the expansion of a dynamic and competitive private sector. Finally, I wish to reaffirm my country’s deep commitment to the universal nature of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the promotion and observance of which represent a priority for the United Nations. In view of this premise, the Romanian Government condemns any form of discrimination and intolerance, especially aggressive nationalism, and intends to guarantee the free and equal exercise of human rights, including the rights of women, children and persons belonging to national minorities. We support the efforts of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, as overall coordinator of the specialized bodies within the United Nations system in improving the efficiency of the Centre for Human Rights. The best guarantee for the observance of human rights lies in developing democracy. This component of the “democracy-development-peace” triad brings me to a final reflection about the United Nations contribution to the process of worldwide democratization. By convening in Bucharest, in September 1997, the third International Conference on New or Restored Democracies, we wish to continue the dialogue and the sharing of experience in building democratic societies by contributing the experiences of Romania, a country in Central Europe that is reviving, irreversibly, its best democratic traditions after so many years of dictatorship. I wish to assure the Assembly that my country will do its best, in concert with all interested countries, to enable the United Nations — the guarantor of peace and international legality — to respond more efficiently to the problems we all share.  ﻿I should like first to extend warm congratulations to Mr. Razali Ismail on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. We have no doubt that the session will benefit from his known skills as he discharges his responsibilities. I should also like to commend Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral for the excellent work done during his term of office. I should also like to express to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our continued confidence in his guidance of the Organization. Allow me at the outset of this, my first opportunity to speak before the General Assembly, to express the deep gratitude and appreciation of the people and Government of South Africa for the decision taken by the Assembly at the fiftieth session to relieve the new democratic Government of South Africa of the burden of the contribution to the United Nations budget accumulated over the period of two decades when the apartheid regime was excluded from participating in the work of the General Assembly. We recognize that that action involved considerable sacrifice, both for the United Nations and for its Member States, and that it was also consistent with the historic commitment of support for our struggle for democracy. South Africa remains committed to achieving a world free of all weapons of mass destruction and to addressing the issue of the proliferation of conventional weapons. We therefore welcome the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which we signed yesterday. Our support for the CTBT as an instrument of disarmament and non-proliferation is based upon the view that this Treaty is an integral part of a process which will lead to the full implementation of the nuclear-disarmament obligations set out in article VI of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. An important milestone along this road was the adoption of the Pelindaba Treaty creating the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone. This Treaty will contribute greatly to measures aimed at achieving a world free from nuclear weapons. Further steps are needed in the process to bring the world closer to the ultimate goal of the elimination of nuclear weapons. The next step is for African States to cooperate with parties to the other nuclear-weapon-free-zones in the Pacific and Latin American regions with a view to promoting a southern hemisphere-wide nuclear-weapon-free zone. We are heartened by the unprecedented step of four nuclear- weapon States’ signing the relevant Protocols of the Pelindaba Treaty simultaneously with African States in April 1996, while the fifth has indicated that it will sign shortly. South Africa, as stated previously in other forums, will also work for the commencement next year of negotiations in the Conference on Disarmament on a treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. South Africa also supports and will work for the establishment of an ad hoc committee on nuclear disarmament in the Conference on Disarmament. This committee can identify and negotiate the necessary steps by which we can achieve the ultimate goal of the eventual elimination of nuclear weapons. We also look forward to the early ratification of the Chemical Weapons Convention by those States that have not yet done so. It is not just the threat posed by all weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery that is of serious concern to my Government, but also the build-up of conventional weapons beyond a level which can be considered legitimate for the purposes of self-defence. Conventional weapons are, in fact, the cause of most of the deaths and suffering of millions of people in conflicts around the world today. My Government would therefore like to encourage all States Members of the United Nations to support and participate in the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms, and lend active support to General Assembly resolution 50/70 B on small arms and its panel of governmental experts mandated to assist the Secretary- General to prepare a report on small arms. We would also encourage Member States to support the worldwide efforts to secure the elimination of anti-personnel landmines. In order to alleviate the suffering caused by landmines, my Government is committed to reinforcing international cooperation. As a country with advanced demining technology, we are pleased to be making a modest contribution to international efforts to unearth landmines. South Africa will continue to cooperate in the various international forums dedicated to the non-proliferation of the technologies and equipment which 17 could be used in the development of weapons of mass destruction, and in discouraging any destabilizing build up of conventional weapons. Our harrowing experience under the tyranny of apartheid has imposed a duty on us to place a high premium on the promotion of human rights. In this regard, our Constitution contains an entrenched and fully justiciable Bill of Rights. In addition, plans are advanced for the establishment of an office on the status of women to provide a mechanism within the Government to act as a monitor to ensure that a gender perspective is integrated into all publicly-funded policies and programmes. The South African Government regards it as a priority to contribute to the efforts of the international community to combat the violation of human rights. In South Africa, and in the region as a whole, processes of democratization have released a host of productive human and political resources. This has, in many ways, contributed to the achievement of peace, security and stability in our region. Our vision for southern Africa is one of the highest possible degree of economic cooperation, mutual assistance and the joint planning of regional development initiatives, leading to full economic integration. Civil conflicts have ravaged many parts of Africa. We welcome the positive developments which have taken place in Rwanda and Sierra Leone. However, serious conflict persists in Liberia, Burundi and Somalia. The South African Government is committed to playing an active role in the ongoing efforts of the international community to assist the people of Burundi to bring about lasting peace and national reconciliation. President Mandela recently appointed a special representative for Burundi, who has been given the task of searching for a viable solution in close coordination with other special representatives and with countries in the region. These efforts need to be supplemented by close cooperation between the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations. At the same time, we are heartened by the progress, albeit tentative so far, towards peace in Angola. Representatives of Member countries assembled here will agree that the people of Angola deserve peace at last as an instrument for — or rather, as an important ingredient of — embarking on the road to sustainable economic development and social advancement. Our Government commends the efforts of the United Nations, and especially those of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Angola, Maître Alioune Blondin Beye, who has with tremendous patience and commitment guided the Angolan peace process to the stage where it is today. We owe it to the people of Angola to see this process through to its logical conclusion. Through the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution, member States of the OAU are collectively committed to restoring peace and security on our continent. In support of the OAU mechanism, we are pleased that the Southern African Development Community has recently created an organ on politics, defence and security. These efforts reflect Africa’s primary concern with issues of preventive diplomacy and conflict resolution. South Africa welcomed the spirit of dialogue and realism that had begun to characterize the relations between Israel and Palestine and was hopeful that this positive development would gradually replace the centuries of conflict in the Middle East. That hope was further reinforced by the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government Arrangements reached in Oslo. My Government is concerned, however, that recent developments in the Middle East are likely to reverse and jeopardize the peace process. We therefore urge all the players in the Middle East to rise to the occasion and, in a spirit of reconciliation, to move steadfastly towards a lasting peace in the region. We are seriously concerned by the marginalization, particularly of African countries among the least- developed countries, from the process of globalization and liberalization. In this regard, closer attention should be given to the need to address the external debt burden of the least-developed countries, especially those in Africa. Problems associated with the debt burden and its servicing still persist and frustrate the rate at which the continent can extricate itself from the vicious cycle of poverty. We therefore welcome the Mid-term Review of the Implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and recognize the importance of the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa, as well as the need to underpin its success through appropriate and adequate resources. In this context we also welcome the designation of 1996 as the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty. We hope that the international community will 18 realize this objective in clear recognition of the challenges facing it. We welcome the World Food Summit, which is to convene in Rome in November 1996 and which will afford the international community the opportunity to demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that poverty eradication strategies are fully integrated into all initiatives of the United Nations system. My Government is encouraged by the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (HABITAT II). The results of the Conference represent the collaborative efforts of the international community to develop a consensus view on the fundamental need to provide access to adequate shelter and infrastructure for all people. Continued support for initiatives at the national and international level to realize and implement the necessary follow-up to HABITAT II should now receive priority attention. It was an honour for South Africa to host the ninth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in April 1996. My Government believes that the sound basis for cooperation established by UNCTAD IX and the call for partnership for growth and development outlined in the Midrand Declaration must be carried forward and implemented through the General Assembly and other forums. South Africa is particularly keen to ensure that the framework which we adopted at Midrand for the reform of UNCTAD is translated into an effective facility for the developing world. South Africa also wishes to underscore the fundamental importance of international cooperation in the environmental and development fields. Sustained political commitment through global partnership remains essential for our continuing international cooperation efforts. It is for this reason that we believe that the 1997 special session of the General Assembly will provide an excellent opportunity to reaffirm the principles and objectives of the Rio Declaration’s Agenda 21. South Africa, a country with a long coastline, has considerable interest in matters relating to the law of the sea. We are thus pleased that the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and its implementing Agreement have entered into force, and that the International Sea-Bed Authority and related structures, of which South Africa is proud to be a member, have been established. In my statement to the General Assembly during the fiftieth session, I expressed the sincere hope that significant progress would be made in bringing about the establishment of an international criminal court. It is therefore gratifying to see that the Preparatory Committee on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court, which was established during the fiftieth session, has made much progress in bringing this idea to fruition. What is now needed is to take this process forward by holding as soon as possible a diplomatic conference where the statute of the proposed court can be finalized. It is widely acknowledged that the favourable changes in the international climate are conducive to the reform and modernization of the United Nations in order to prepare the Organization to respond effectively to the challenges of the twenty-first century. I wish to recall that in his address on 23 October 1995 at the Special Commemorative Meeting of the General Assembly, President Mandela, said: “Indeed the United Nations has to reassess its role, redefine its profile and reshape its structures. It should truly reflect the diversity of our universe and ensure equity among the nations in the exercise of power within the system of international relations in general, and the Security Council in particular.” (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 37th meeting, p. 6) In this regard, my delegation wishes to register its disappointment at the slow pace of advancement, with no end in sight to the deliberations of the Working Group on the question of equitable representation and increase in the membership of the Security Council and other matters relating to the Security Council. In this regard we support the recommendation in the report of the Working Group that the Group should continue with its work. We would also urge Member States to demonstrate flexibility and accommodation in their future deliberations and to display the necessary political will in order to reach a common understanding. In the declaration that the Heads of State and Government adopted on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations on 24 October 1995, it was noted that “In order to carry out its work effectively, the United Nations must have adequate resources. 19 Member States must meet, in full and on time, their obligation to bear the expenses of the Organization, as apportioned by the General Assembly. That apportionment should be established on the basis of criteria agreed to and considered to be fair by Member States.” (A/50/48, para. 15) My delegation has taken note of the progress of the Working Group on the financial situation in highlighting the problems facing the Organization, and urges all Member States to pay what is legally due as soon as possible in order that we may direct our energies to the real problems facing the world at this time. As we approach the twenty- first century, let us together resolve to redefine the role and shape of the United Nations and render this institution better equipped to carry out the important task of advancing peace and development in the world. ﻿Allow me first of all to congratulate the President most warmly on his election to serve as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I also wish to convey my thanks to the previous President, Mr. Freitas do Amaral, for the commitment, skill and poise with which he led our work at the last session of the Assembly. I would also like to convey my appreciation to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his ongoing outstanding work for our Organization since beginning of his term. The views of the Luxembourg Government on the major international issues are the same as those expressed by our European Union partners. They were presented to the Assembly yesterday morning by Mr. Dick Spring, President of the Council and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ireland. Luxembourg learned with great satisfaction that our General Assembly, by an overwhelming majority, had adopted and opened for signature the resolution containing the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Yesterday, on behalf of the Luxembourg Government, I signed that document, which marks substantial progress towards the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the creation of a safer and more humane world. I hope that the parties concerned will continue to work to create the right conditions for the rapid entry into force of this Treaty. Also in the area of disarmament, I support without reserve the United Nations work on the question of anti- personnel landmines, which day after day, long after the guns have fallen silent in a conflict, continue to claim countless victims. If there is any evil which must be eradicated, this is it. I rejoice in the significant progress which has been achieved, in less than a year, in the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. I welcome the holding of elections on 14 September, which marks a decisive stage for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnians, Serbs and Croats must now organize their cooperation by first setting up common institutions. I regard these elections as a first, important step in the framework of a process of democratization and stabilization that must be carried further. Its success will depend above all on the Bosnian parties. It will also depend on neighbouring countries, in particular Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Lastly, it will depend on the support of the international community. My Government is in favour of continued international civilian and military action in order to create the environment required to preserve peace and prevent a return to war. Luxembourg is concerned by the check to the peace process in the Middle East that has followed the change of Government in Israel. We take the view that there is 13 no alternative to this complex and fragile process: the fruit of arduous negotiations. We urge our friends in Israel to pursue this process, to comply with and execute the commitments undertaken pursuant to the Oslo agreements and to avoid creating fresh obstacles. We fear that any other policy may generate further tension and once again trigger a spiral of violence that would inflict suffering on all the peoples of the region. The alarming events that took place on the West Bank today threaten to destroy the results of several years of effort to achieve a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. The Luxembourg Government condemns the recent attacks launched by the Government of Saddam Hussein on the Kurdish population of northern Iraq. It was inevitable that measures would be taken to react to this fresh offensive. We call for a complete withdrawal of Iraqi forces and for full respect for the territorial integrity of Iraq. We hope that the implementation of the “oil-for-food” resolution may take place without delay in order to relieve the hardships suffered by the civilian population of that country. The situation in the Great Lakes region of Africa, in particular in Burundi, continues to give us the greatest cause for concern. I fully support the efforts of the United Nations, in close cooperation with the Organization of African Unity, to avert both the occurrence in Burundi of a tragedy such as occurred in Rwanda and a deterioration of the situation which could plunge the region into war. Over the last year, the United Nations has substantially cut the number of its peace-keeping operations. This reduction in our activities and the set-backs that we have witnessed in the past should not, however, diminish our efforts to enhance the United Nations capacity to avert, prevent the spread of and halt conflicts, and to save human lives. It is utterly unfair to criticize the United Nations whenever a peace-keeping operation runs into difficulties. Many of the shortcomings attributed to the United Nations could be resolved if all Member States undertook to pay their contributions to our Organization and, especially, make available to it the resources that it needs. For this reason, Luxembourg supports the ongoing work and reflection aimed at equipping the Organization with a rapid- intervention force that would enable it to react to crises in a timely fashion. Where non-military means have failed, it should be possible to deploy well-trained and properly equipped peace-keeping contingents in the field very promptly in order to give practical effect to the Security Council’s decisions. Greater responsibility should henceforth be given to regional organizations. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is nowadays playing a leading role in conflict management in Europe and the Caucasus. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in the former Yugoslavia and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in the Great Lakes region are doing the same. Other regional and subregional organizations in Africa, Latin America and elsewhere are performing similar tasks with the support of the United Nations. International security begins with the security of the individual, with respect for his fundamental rights and his protection against any violation of those rights, including the actions of his own Government. Nothing, therefore, can justify violations of human rights, which by their very nature have universal value. Our Organization plays an important role in developing international machinery designed to provide effective protection for human rights. This role takes the form, among others, of the efforts to carry out systematic investigations and enquiries with a view to sanctioning those responsible for violations of international humanitarian law and human rights. Luxembourg supports the early creation of an international criminal court, which would be a decisive step forward in ensuring respect for the principles of international law. Among the most vulnerable human beings are our children, and they therefore deserve special protection. The adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child marks a major advance. Scrupulously applied, that Convention will be an invaluable instrument in safeguarding children against physical and psychological violence. In 1995 my Government proposed to the United Nations a similar, indeed, a complementary initiative, to eliminate the exploitation of child labour. I welcome this Assembly adoption of that proposal designed to come to the aid of the tens of millions of children forced to work from an early age. This effort should be strengthened and further pursued. Luxembourg also hails the results of the Stockholm World Congress on the Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children. My Government is resolved to foster international cooperation in the prevention and suppression of sexual exploitation of children in order to effectively protect and safeguard children at the international level against such criminal practices. 14 The globalization of the world economy is bringing about profound changes in international relations. A veritable revolution in information and communication technologies reducing geographic distances to nothing has led to a speeding up of business transactions and financial flows, as well as increased integration of markets. Generally accepted ideas have been turned upside down, and serious questions have been raised even among industrialized countries, where unemployment has grown to alarming proportions. At the same time, we note that a significant number of developing countries remain on the sidelines of development and remain in great poverty. At a time when our Organization proclaimed 1996 International Year for the Eradication of Poverty, more than 1.5 billion human beings continue to live in a state of absolute poverty. We cannot remain indifferent to this situation. What should particularly disturb us is the inequality gap, which is widening both within countries and between the countries of the North and the South. This is a dangerous source of new tensions and conflicts. The United Nations Development Programme’s latest report on human development speaks of worldwide social fragmentation. It underscores the widening disparities between rich and poor States and increased imbalances in societies between inhabitants of the same country. The population explosion and uneven access to the fruits of technological progress further compound these distortions. This trend is likely to trigger increasingly massive migrations within countries and from poor countries to richer ones. In order to remedy this situation, I propose to develop a new strategy based on four main courses of action. First, we should provide follow-up to, and translate into operational activities, the results of the major conferences held since the beginning of this decade in Rio, Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen, Beijing and, most recently, in Istanbul. The World Food Summit scheduled by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) for November and the special session on sustainable development in the spring of 1997 are also opportunities to define an integrated programme of action to foster human development. Secondly, we must halt the persistent decline of funds made available for development, a symptom of “donor fatigue”. In each of our countries we must launch a new movement of solidarity to benefit the poorest and least developed countries. The Government of Luxembourg has decided to increase year by year its contribution to cooperation for development. Our intention is to achieve the target of devoting 0.7 per cent of our gross national product to official development assistance before the end of this decade. A significant portion of these funds will be made available to the various funds and programmes of the United Nations system. This is not simply a question of solidarity and social justice on a world scale; it is, above all, a preventive policy designed to contribute, however modestly, to peace by encouraging development. The third main course of action is to strengthen the United Nations capacity to act in the economic and social field. That strengthening requires courageous reforms of its structures. Above and beyond the proposals of the Summit of major industrialized countries at Lyon, which I welcome, I advocate a single rigorous coordination structure for all economic and social activities and, especially, a concerted restructuring of the bodies and mandates concerned. In this context, I note with interest, the proposal of the XX Congress of the Socialist International, which took place recently in this very building, calling for the setting up of integrated economic institutions on the regional and international levels and for the setting up of a United Nations economic security council. Fourthly, we must develop cooperation with the representatives of organized civil society, which is to say, the non-governmental organizations.The participation of non-governmental organizations in international organizations reinforces, in a sense, the political legitimacy of those international bodies. The representatives of civil society nowadays play a key role in the activities of the United Nations system, whether in the promotion of human rights and democracy, in humanitarian assistance or in cooperation for development. They make an invaluable contribution not only to the Organization’s operational activities but also to its thinking processes, as attested to by the significant participation of non-governmental organizations in the preparation, holding and follow-up of the major world conferences organized by the United Nations. This new dimension of our work was also highlighted at the congress of the World Federation of United Nations Associations, whose fiftieth-anniversary meeting, I am proud to note, was held in Luxembourg a little over a month ago. The financial situation of our Organization continues to be a matter of grave concern. As of July, the United 15 Nations cash flow was exhausted, and this situation can only worsen between now and the end of the year. Any attempt at a radical reform of the system will be futile if we continue to neglect the fundamental need to put it on an adequate and reliable financial footing. The United Nations cannot discharge its important responsibilities effectively if it is reduced to constant worry about making ends meet. Admittedly, the Organization could do even more to control its expenditure and enhance its effectiveness. Greater attention should be given, inter alia, to the question of establishing each State’s assessed contribution, which should be based on objective criteria and reflect each country’s real ability to pay. However, the crisis will be overcome only if each Member State fulfils its obligations by making full, timely and unconditional payment of its financial contribution. I therefore unreservedly support the proposals made by the European Union in this regard. In the ongoing reform process, one aspect is of particular significance. Within our Organization, the Security Council bears unique responsibilities as the organ entrusted with preventing and resolving conflicts.One of the greatest lessons to be learnt from the experiences and setbacks of recent years is that Security Council members must, if they wish to preserve its credibility, demonstrate their determination to enforce their decisions, once taken. The credibility and effectiveness of the Council with regard to peace-keeping and international security will be reinforced by the establishment of more open, transparent and collegial decision-making processes while maintaining close consultation with the countries supplying matériel and contingents. The not-insignificant progress made in this respect in the recent past should be integrated into the system. In addition, the Council’s legitimacy, and probably the quality of its decisions, would also benefit from a readjustment in membership. The enlargement of the Council should take into account the ability of member States to contribute to peace-keeping and to the achievement of the Organization’s goals. A better balance must be struck between industrialized and developing countries. The passing of the bipolar world has freed our planet from the ideological, political and military fetters that impeded to an extraordinary degree our capacity to act. Relieved of the threat of global confrontation and nuclear holocaust, we are now faced with a series of worldwide problems, old and new, that includes underdevelopment, environmental degradation, the proliferation of all kinds of weapons, terrorism, ethnic conflicts, drug trafficking, violence and crime in all its guises. Luxembourg is convinced that the solution to those problems lies not in isolationism, nor in nationalism, nor in fundamentalism of any description. We would also be deluding ourselves were we to put our trust solely in the market and private initiative to remedy all humanity’s ills. Only through an approach based on cooperation, solidarity, tolerance and mutual esteem can we tackle those problems successfully at both the regional and the world levels. This has been the approach of the European Union and its member States, which have succeeded in attaining, in Europe, a level of stability and prosperity hitherto unknown. The approach is based on the concept of democracy and of a market economy that is not uncontrolled but socially responsible, one in which the State fully shoulders its responsibilities in the areas of health, education and social justice. The system requires constant adjustments, but its principles and bases are not subject to debate. Other parts of the world have also successfully entered into a process of cooperation and regional integration. On the world level, the United Nations is the only truly universal Organization. We must work at this level to make a contribution vital to the solution of global problems, one that will complement the efforts being made at the regional level. That is the new and important responsibility that became evident in the course of the events and meetings that occurred the world over in commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations last year. There was emphasis on the need to set up new structures and to reform the United Nations, to give it the requisite capacity for review, action and cooperation. It is our hope that, with a heightened awareness of the interests of all mankind we, the representatives of the States Members of the United Nations, will succeed in displaying the vision, courage and political resolve needed to make our Organization an effective instrument capable of facing the challenges of the third millennium.  ﻿Encouraging trends can be seen in many parts of the world following the end of the East-West confrontation. Democracy has taken firm root in many countries. The improved economic performance of many countries is making an important contribution to the welfare of peoples. At the same time, we still face difficult challenges. Ethnic and internal conflicts are taking a far heavier toll than earlier international conflicts; grave cases of violations of human rights occur; the poorest countries are lagging behind in economic development; the gap between rich and poor is growing; and the environment is coming under increasing strain. The international community is facing challenges going far beyond traditional diplomacy, challenges directly affecting the lives of each individual human being. We must create safer and better living conditions for the individual. This year, I will highlight four priority areas: first, peacekeeping and international security; secondly, human rights; thirdly, economic and social development; and, fourthly, the environment. In these areas, common efforts in the United Nations are imperative. First, international peace: threats against international security and the rights of peoples must be dealt with in the United Nations. New complex intra-State conflicts have increased dramatically. We must learn from the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia, Rwanda and Somalia. Millions of individuals have suffered in these conflicts. Through the electronic media, the world closely follows the unfolding tragedies. The hopes of the victims for a peaceful future are shared by all of us. The United Nations and the international community are expected to provide answers. We must focus on the capacity to react directly and quickly and to prevent crises from getting out of hand. Rapid response can be that which separates failure from success. The creation of the United Nations standby system was an important step in the right direction. We must now take it one step further. The establishment of a rapidly deployable headquarters in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations will reduce planning time and response time for future operations. The planning of new operations cannot start from scratch every time. Denmark continues its efforts with like-minded countries to establish a multilateral brigade at a state of high readiness within the standby system. A well-balanced, pre-planned force structure will greatly improve the ability to act quickly and effectively. The need for new conflict strategies was also underlined by the Rwanda evaluation initiated by Denmark. Preventive diplomacy is called for. Regional organizations must be strengthened to take on more responsibility in preventing conflicts and in post-conflict peace-building. The United Nations cannot carry the entire burden itself. The regional organizations must assist the United Nations, not replace it. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which I shall have the honour and responsibility of chairing in 1997, is one such important regional organization. One of the tenets of the OSCE is “OSCE first”. This implies that the OSCE will be a primary instrument for conflict prevention in its region, thus relieving the United Nations. Arms control and arms reduction add their contribution to conflict prevention. Two and a half years of intensive negotiations have resulted in the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) now open for signature. On behalf of the Kingdom of Denmark, I signed the Treaty this morning. The CTBT will end the qualitative development of nuclear weapons. It is a necessary supplementary component to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. It will strengthen progress towards complete global nuclear disarmament. When it comes to conventional weapons, anti- personnel landmines continue to pose a daily, grave threat to people in many parts of the world. They are, at the same time, an unacceptable obstacle to the resettlement of displaced populations. The new landmine Protocol to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons, adopted in May, is an improvement. Denmark will ratify it shortly, without reservations, but we are still far away from the only viable solution to the landmine problem, which is a total, 5 worldwide ban. The Danish Government has decided to renounce unilaterally the use of anti-personnel landmines in the Danish armed forces. We encourage similar decisions by other Governments. Furthermore, the present state of technology for detecting unexploded mines is ineffective. Public and private initiative, ingenuity and funding must be combined to create new technological options for landmine detection. The International Conference on Mine-clearance Technology, held in Denmark in July this year, has stimulated this endeavour. We welcome the initiatives of Canada and Japan to carry the efforts further. National initiatives must be assisted by international efforts to speed up mine clearance. To this effect, the General Assembly will be presented with a draft resolution on assistance in mine clearance. My second priority is human rights. They have come to play a visible role in international relations and on the agenda of many United Nations forums. The Vienna World Conference on Human Rights made it clear that the promotion and protection of all human rights is a legitimate concern, indeed a duty, of all States and the international community. Criticism of human rights abuses can no longer be rejected as interference in internal affairs. Indeed, criticism should be seen as a contribution to our cooperative efforts to strengthen respect for human rights. The adoption of international instruments is the result of our cooperation. They are the true universally-accepted bases for continued progress in the human rights field. The overall goal is to promote and protect the rights of individual human beings — our citizens. This leaves room for each society to find its own way to further democracy and respect for human rights. No one is trying to impose a single model. When we freely adhere to international human rights standards as our own, we give up no part of our culture, no part of our national sovereignty. On the contrary, individuals enjoying full human rights are the best guarantee of national culture and sovereignty. The United Nations Commission on Human Rights plays a particularly important role in the promotion of human rights. During its membership term, Denmark intends to contribute actively to the Commission’s work in four prime areas: the fight against torture; the promotion of the rights of indigenous peoples; strengthening the High Commissioner and his office; and the right to development. Let me in this context pay tribute to the important contribution of non-governmental organizations. I cannot mention the area of human rights without referring to the grave situation in Myanmar. It is, indeed, a tragedy that, since the release in July last year of Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, developments in that country have gone from bad to worse. Time and again, Denmark and its European Union partners have urged the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC) to respect human rights and to restore democracy to the Burmese people. Our appeals have been ignored. I repeat them here in the strongest possible terms. This tragedy must end. I express my deep dismay at the unwillingness of the SLORC to discuss the death in custody, on 22 June 1996 of Mr. James Nichols. Mr. Nichols served as honorary consul for several European States, including Denmark. The Government of Denmark intends to keep the situation in Burma high on the international agenda until fundamental improvements are seen. Economic and social development is the third area I want to emphasize. Human conflicts have many causes. If we want a lasting foundation for peace in our own societies and internationally, we need to address the problems of poverty, deprivation and social exclusion. The plight of the poorest countries is a matter of particular concern. The United Nations should play a crucial role in addressing this problem. The need for development assistance is as great as ever. The poorest countries do not attract private investment. They do not have the potential to benefit from liberalization of international trade. The current trend in official development assistance is deplorable. Official development assistance fell to 0.27 per cent of gross national product in 1995. This is the lowest level since the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent was set in 1970. Unfortunately, a number of major donors are still reducing their development programmes. In 1995, only four countries were above the target of 0.7 per cent. Denmark, for its part, continues to contribute one per cent of its gross national product. Economic growth, desirable as it is, cannot be equated with development unless it is accompanied by economic and social progress for all groups. Social 6 progress for all is not an automatic result of economic growth. The Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development stated that “the eradication of poverty, the generation of ... productive employment, and the enhancement of social integration” (A/CONF.166/9, p. 24) should be an integral part of policies furthering economic growth. I would particularly emphasize the need to ensure an effective follow-up to the Platform for Action adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. The United Nations plays a crucial role in humanitarian assistance. Recent experience, including the Rwanda evaluation, has stressed the need for coordination of all actors in the humanitarian field. The Department of Humanitarian Affairs of the United Nations has gradually established itself as a focal point for coordination of needs assessment and appeals. I urge all Members of the United Nations family with humanitarian assistance programmes to engage actively in DHA-sponsored coordination efforts. The fourth priority area is the environment. The Brundtland Report and the Rio Conference on Environment and Development clearly emphasized the global nature of environmental issues. The concept of sustainable development has now firmly taken its place on our political agenda. Much has been achieved. Yet it is uncertain whether the accomplishments match the growing problems. Armed conflicts, poverty, ignorance and in some cases even short- sightedness and greed are contributors to the continued wear and tear on the environment. The special session of the General Assembly, to take place in 1997, will be the next opportunity for Governments to review at a high level the implementation of Agenda 21. The special session must look at the need for readjusting, revitalizing and increasing our efforts to cope with the challenges. The Government of Denmark fully supports this process. We will continue our support of activities in areas in need, such as safeguarding biodiversity, promoting renewable energy and reducing erosion, desertification and deforestation. I have dealt briefly with four high-priority areas. In the view of my Government, the United Nations has a key role to play in addressing these problems. But is the Organization fully capable of taking up this challenge? Regrettably, the answer is no. We must insist that all Members honour their treaty obligations and pay their contributions to the United Nations in full, on time and without preconditions. The present state of affairs is unacceptable. Undermining the United Nations is in the interest of no one. Members that are intentionally running behind in paying their assessed contributions must realize that they cannot expect their influence in the various United Nations organs to remain unaffected. Furthermore, the United Nations must reflect present political realities. This should be borne in mind in the efforts to agree on reforming the Security Council. No doubt, the United Nations must continue its efforts to revitalize itself in the economic and social field. The quality of its work must continuously be improved. The main objective is to increase its impact at the country level to the benefit of the poor. Denmark supports a comprehensive and coherent reform of the present system in areas such as institutions, governance structure, staff, administration and future funding. Little can be achieved without the political will of the Member States. I agree with the recent findings of a task force sponsored by a well-known American institution, the Council on Foreign Relations. It states that “the United Nations is in crisis ... principally because Members States ... have failed to pay their bills, have given the United Nations responsibilities without the power to carry them out, and have blamed the United Nations for failures in national policies.” In conclusion, let me underline the fundamental interest of my country in the establishment of a world community in which States, as well as each individual, may live in conditions of peace and welfare. Well- functioning international organizations, not least our world Organization, are cornerstones in this endeavour. Denmark will bring its dedicated contribution. ﻿May I begin by extending to Mr. Razali the warmest congratulations of the delegation of the Union of Myanmar on his most deserving election as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. His election to that important office is no doubt a reflection of the high esteem in which his country, Malaysia, is held by the international community for its active role in world affairs, and of his wealth of personal experience and diplomatic skills. We are confident that under his leadership our deliberations will be fruitful. On a personal note, I should like to say how deeply honoured I was to have accompanied the Head of State Senior General Than Shwe on his state visit to Malaysia last month. The visit was a success. We were much impressed by the warm reception accorded us and by the outstanding achievements of the leadership in bringing peace and prosperity to the people of Malaysia. I wish also to express our appreciation to Mr. Razali’s predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his invaluable contribution to the work of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. The United Nations today is at a crossroads. On the one hand, there is hope for a new era in international relations as post- cold-war trends compel nations towards ever-growing interdependence and the globalization of the world economy. On the other hand, issues that have been dormant for decades have emerged, drawing the world into a pattern of conflict, ethnic strife and violence. In this time of global transformation the United Nations has an important role to play. It must actively work to guide the world through the transitional period to a new, peaceful, secure and stable era based on respect for the Charter. In this United Nations Decade of International Law it would be most appropriate to rededicate ourselves to achieving a world in which principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity, independence, sovereign equality and non-interference in the internal affairs of States are respected. Myanmar truly believes that we can overcome the political, economic and social challenges we face and avoid confrontation and chaos only if we seize the opportunity to extend and strengthen the Organization and promote a multilateral system based on the primacy of international law and freedom of choice and equality of all States. Disarmament, sustainable development, enhancement of the environment and suppression of narcotic drugs are priority issues that affect the security and well-being of peoples throughout the world. Concern continues to mount over the lack of adequate progress in these areas. The proliferation of arms, particularly of weapons of mass destruction, remains the greatest potential threat to mankind’s survival. All States, large and small, nuclear and non-nuclear, have a vital interest in ensuring the success of negotiations on disarmament. The primary responsibility for removing the threat of a nuclear 16 holocaust, however, rests with the nuclear-weapon States. It is essential that the nuclear-weapon States show the political will to accommodate the concerns of non-nuclear- weapon States to achieve a mutually acceptable basis for universal disarmament. Myanmar continues to regard a comprehensive test-ban treaty as an essential step towards nuclear disarmament. The adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) by the General Assembly on 10 September 1996 is a welcome development. It will contribute significantly to the process of nuclear disarmament and to our efforts to achieve the goal of general and complete disarmament. Myanmar has always supported the establishment of nuclear-free zones. In our own region we have, together with our neighbours, signed and ratified the South East Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone Treaty. Peace and security in the world need to be built upon economic development. Without development there can be no lasting peace. It must be realized, however, that economic progress in developing countries depends as much on a fair and equitable international economic environment as it does on domestic reforms to effectively confront the challenge of poverty and economic malaise. In this regard, we share the Secretary- General’s view that development should be recognized as the foremost and most far-reaching task of our time. At the same time, we are deeply concerned that the process of globalization of the world economy has yielded many more losers than winners. The situation was most eloquently described by the Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement, President Samper Pizano of Colombia, in his address to the Meeting of the Ministerial Committee on Methodology held earlier this year in Cartagena: “The cake of progress continues to be handed out in large slices for a few, and in crumbs for the rest.” Indeed it is distressing to note the dangerous tendency of certain States to link trade and commerce with other issues. We find unacceptable the threat or use of economic sanctions and the extraterritorial application of domestic law to influence policies in developing countries. The use of economic sanctions as a tool of policy is indefensible. It is a flagrant breach of the United Nations Charter. Narcotic drugs are a growing menace to the international community. Aware of the problem, Myanmar is carrying out narcotics suppression as a national cause. From the outset the Myanmar Government realized that the drug problem can be tackled only through a multisectoral approach and has laid down national strategies to combat the menace. The nationwide drug-abuse control programme covers many activities: crop substitution and livestock distribution for farmers in the border areas where opium is grown; treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts; preventive education; and law enforcement. The areas where poppies are grown are underdeveloped regions where the national races depend on the cultivation of opium as their principal means of livelihood. Hence, the Government has set up an entire ministry devoted to the development of border areas. The development of these areas will no doubt ensure the success of the eradication campaign. In parallel with the national effort, the Government has sought closer cooperation with the United Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) and neighbouring countries, and is actively participating in the international campaign against the production and trafficking of illicit drugs. Our efforts are meeting with success, as one armed group after another has returned to the fold to join hands with the Government in development endeavours. An encouraging event this year was the unconditional surrender of the Mong Tai Army of nearly 20,000 men, led by U Khun Sa. We are confident that this unprecedented achievement will result in a drastic reduction of the opium supply. I should like to firmly reiterate Myanmar’s commitment to the total eradication of poppy plantations in our country. The sheer magnitude of the problem requires new ways and means to address the problem. There must be additional efforts to curb demand, just as we work to deter production and trafficking. We would welcome increased support for our national programmes or for development projects administered by UNDCP. Environment issues are among the most widely discussed topics of our times. Environment and development top the international agenda as human impact on the environment has increased dramatically and mankind faces challenges unprecedented in scope and severity. The tremendous growth in population, coupled with industrial development in every region of the world, has taxed the carrying capacity of the Earth. The struggle even to support the present population at today’s standards of living will cause environmental degradation on an unprecedented scale. However, in the last few years seeds of hope have been sown, as there is growing awareness in the world that the causes and consequences of environmental degradation transcend boundaries and that our future world must be one of partnership. 17 Myanmar is aware that different elements of ecological systems are linked. It is only through an integrated approach at the national, regional and global levels that we can achieve sustainable development. For this reason we have been endeavouring to contribute to the protection and promotion of the environment at every level. In developing countries like Myanmar, forests, farmlands, fisheries and freshwater constitute the foundation of development. In Myanmar we are fortunate that these resources are abundant and are not under stress. This is largely the result of the traditional culture that pervades daily life. Planting trees, creating gardens and parks, building bridges, digging wells, and providing rest houses and monasteries are considered meritorious deeds. The people of Myanmar love and respect nature and seek to live in harmony with the environment. The history of Myanmar is replete with accounts of environmental conservation carried out by Myanmar monarchs. The ancient kings had the vision to protect teak forests by royal decree and to ensure systematic management of forest resources. In the three years following the World Conference on Human Rights, increasing emphasis has been placed on the promotion and protection of human rights. While we can welcome the spirit in which the question of human rights is considered, we are seriously concerned by the growing tendency of certain Western countries to politicize the question of human rights and to use it as a tool to interfere in the domestic affairs of States. We firmly believe that the international community should take a more holistic approach to the question of human rights and not be preoccupied with individual rights and freedoms. Any government, institution or individual seeking to promote human rights should bear in mind the significance of national and regional peculiarities as well as historical, cultural and religious backgrounds and the stage of economic development. In Myanmar and other developing countries, poverty remains an effective obstacle to the full enjoyment of those rights. For this reason we are redoubling our efforts to ensure our peoples’ right to development so that they can be delivered from the clutches of poverty. The allegations that wholesale repressive measures are being carried out in Myanmar have never been borne out. On the contrary, the peace and stability that now reign in the country have allowed it to achieve significant progress. Continued economic reform will positively affect the living standards of all citizens. At present there is potential in Myanmar for unprecedented peace and development and for it to join the ranks of the fast-growing economies in its region. The international community can do no better than to help Myanmar by playing a constructive role. In recent years a few countries, such as Myanmar, have been singled out by certain countries for punitive action. Central to any assessment of the proper course of policy towards any country is an understanding of the conditions that prevail there. In the case of Myanmar, first and foremost, it should be noted that it is undergoing important reforms. Regrettably, no credit has been given to the Myanmar Government for bringing about political stability and economic progress in a short period of eight years. The Government has initiated economic reforms aimed at transforming the centrally planned economy into a market-oriented one. Private investment and domestic entrepreneurial activity have been encouraged, and the economy has been opened to direct foreign investment. Private-sector participation in both domestic and foreign trade has been promoted. The economic reforms are bearing fruit and have led to sustained growth. In the past four years the economy recorded an average growth rate of 8.2 per cent, resulting in increased employment opportunities and significantly rising living standards in the country, primarily in urban areas, where private enterprises are flourishing, and in fertile rural areas, where farmers have better incentive to grow and market their produce. Foreign investments in Myanmar today totals $4.3 billion and is expected to grow in the coming years. That the pace of economic activity has quickened is reflected not only within the country but abroad, where a growing number of Myanmar representatives are taking part in international and regional forums, including sports, business and intellectual meetings. We in Myanmar are aware that the best hope for a brighter future lies in our national races joining together to ensure the stability of the State, community peace and tranquillity. To this end a national convention is being held to adopt guidelines for a new State constitution, in accordance with which a peaceful, modern and developed nation will be built. It should be appreciated that Myanmar is a union composed of 135 national races from which 16 armed groups have evolved, some dating back to 1948, the year of our independence. It should also be noted that, despite the magnitude of the task, the Myanmar Government has 18 succeeded in bringing back to the fold 15 out of the 16 armed groups and has established a separate Ministry for Progress of Border Areas and National Races and Development Affairs. Insurgency, which hindered development for decades, is now virtually over, and all the energy of the defence forces and the people is being devoted to nation-building. One fact that is often overlooked is the pervasive influence of traditional culture in Myanmar, as a result of which leniency has been shown to offenders. Although a number of death sentences were handed down by civil and military courts following the 1988 unrest in the country, none has been carried out. One factor that demonstrates our confidence in the positive changes taking place in Myanmar is our readiness to open our doors to tourists. This year has been designated “Visit Myanmar Year”, and we are expecting hundreds of thousands of visitors despite the negative campaign launched by critics. Those who call for a travel boycott to Myanmar should remember that tourism benefits a wide range of people, the visitors as well as the hosts. Big hotels and travel agencies, as well as the family-run stalls that sell everything from hand-crafted jewellery to lacquer-ware and wood carvings, stand to make a living. Why not encourage tourists to come to Myanmar and see for themselves the vast transformations taking place? Today, as we stand on the threshold of a new millennium, we have before us both opportunities and challenges. At this time of important change and transformation, the United Nations and its Member States must strive to ensure that all nations can live in peace and harmony. To this end, we will need a man of exceptional skills and wisdom at the helm of the Organization in the years ahead. We should continue to seek the best man for the job, bearing in mind the personal skills and integrity that the important post demands. The choice of the Secretary-General of the Organization assumes an even greater importance at this time, when we see increasing resort to the threat or use of force in a manner inconsistent with the purposes and principles of the Organization. In conclusion, I should like to renew Myanmar’s pledge to work with all nations to strengthen the Organization and to achieve universal peace.  ﻿During the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the 13 United Nations, States renewed our faith in the ideals of the Charter of this Organization. This means that past experience has given us a new vision of the world, a keen awareness of the interdependence of nations, all of which seek to live in a work committed to peace, freedom and justice. It is with this conviction that my delegation extends to Mr. Razali Ismail the warmest congratulations of the Government of Zaire on his election as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. We would also like to congratulate his fellow Assembly officers. And we also congratulate Mr. Razali’s predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral. The competence and intelligence he showed as he guided the work of the fiftieth session earned him the Assembly’s appreciation. We would also like to pay a well-deserved tribute to the Secretary-General Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to the members of the Secretariat, for their untiring efforts to ensure the proper functioning of our Organization and for their clear-sightedness and courage. Zaire also takes this opportunity to express its support for Mr. Boutros-Ghali as he stands for a second term as Secretary-General. This must be our position. His predecessors from other continents had this opportunity; Africa cannot accept otherwise. During this half century, our free nations have won the greatest victories in the fields of national liberation and political independence. However, as we come to the end of the twentieth century, we still face major challenges in the economic, cultural and social fields, as well as in the area of international peace and security. Peace, freedom and stability together constitute an indispensable prerequisite for development. No part of our Earth, no country in the world, can be really secure while there are still outstanding hotbeds of tension. And, today, such hotbeds are on the increase, in Africa, in Asia and in Central and Eastern Europe. The situations in Rwanda, Burundi, Somalia, Liberia, Yugoslavia, Afghanistan and the Middle East are all causes for the concern weighing on international peace and security. The United Nations, which is already seized of these issues, should continue its efforts with the encouragement of every one of us. In Angola, a neighbouring country to Zaire, my delegation can see positive developments in the domestic situation. The integration of União Nacional para a Independência Total de Angola (UNITA) forces into the Angolan National Army should be promoted and encouraged for the good of the entire population of Angola. For more than two years, Zaire has lived with the tragedies of Burundi and Rwanda, which have lead to a massive influx of refugees from these two countries onto its territory. This grave situation, for which my country is not responsible, has caused and continues to cause us considerable human, material, environmental and other forms of damage. In this respect, the international community has been inexplicably reticent in its actions, as if Zaire should shoulder this burden alone and indefinitely. Zaire is indeed constantly being denigrated even to the extent that it is often falsely accused of supporting armed activity within Rwanda and Burundi. A memorandum from the Government of the Republic of Zaire on the lack of security in northern and southern Kivu has already been submitted to the Secretary-General. A few days ago, the Zairian towns of Bukavu, Uvira and surrounding districts were shelled by armed elements from Rwanda. The Assembly has heard Rwanda’s pernicious and false representation of the facts. Inter- ethnic massacres occurred in Rwanda in 1959, 1962 and 1972, not to mention 1994. This genocide in Rwanda was designed, developed and executed in detail and with delight by Rwandans against Rwandans, and by that I mean by past and present leaders in power in Kigali. Members can now understand why Rwanda, nursing its planned aggression against my country, has refused to sign the non-aggression pact patiently negotiated by all the States of Central Africa, including Rwanda. From this rostrum, my delegation solemnly declares the following: First, Zaire does not accept and will never again accept to act as anyone’s scapegoat. Secondly, Zaire will do all it can to defend the security of its population and its borders, and will call on its people and its friends in its defence. Thirdly, Zaire is always prepared to cooperate with the neighbouring Governments and peoples of Rwanda and Burundi to ensure the voluntary and dignified return of refugees to their respective countries. Failing this, following the example of certain European Governments with respect to refugees and people without documentation, Zaire will have no choice but to begin the enforced and unconditional return of such people to their countries of origin. Fourthly, as President Mobutu stated last year in this forum, Zaire will never accept the de facto transformation of a part of its territory into a “Hutuland”, whether through a challenge to its territorial integrity or through 14 the establishment of refugee settlements on its territory. Anyone considering that can forget it. Fifthly, given the sacrifices endured by its people, Zaire calls on the international community to implement fully the agreements that have been signed, and General Assembly resolution 49/24 of 2 December 1994 on special assistance to countries hosting refugees. Finally, Zaire reaffirms the position it stated at the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development regarding the holding of a world conference on refugees and displaced persons to find a comprehensive and lasting solution to the refugee question, which has disastrous consequences for development, human relations and human rights. The political, economic and social situation in Zaire has deteriorated over six long years of transition. Despite this difficult situation, Zaire has made it a point of honour to pursue its democratic process, committing itself to reestablishing the authority of the State, rebuilding the basic infrastructure, improving the country’s economic, financial and monetary situation, ensuring the security of persons and property and observing human rights and fundamental freedoms. To date, Zaire’s main task has been to organize free, democratic and transparent elections. This is why it has set up a National Electoral Commission which is now ready to get down to work, as observed by the delegation recently sent to Zaire by the Secretary-General. Furthermore, the draft electoral law and the bill on the organization of a constitutional referendum are also currently under discussion by the Parliament of Transition. Zaire wishes to reaffirm before the entire world that the democratization of its political system is irreversible, regardless of the difficulties facing our country. For these reasons, the Government of Zaire calls on the international community to give it effective support in the establishment of these new democratic institutions by June 1997 at the latest. Democracy can only develop and last in a country that enjoys economic development that allows for the protection and promotion of human rights. Some human rights were being promoted in Zaire long before the democratization process. Thus, for example, despite the many social and cultural constraints, Zairian men and women enjoy political and vocational equality, including in terms of remuneration. The noble mission of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights certainly merits our encouragement. Zaire has nothing to hide, and has thus accepted and accredited the Secretary-General’s human rights representative, whose office is in our capital, Kinshasa. Nonetheless, Zaire deplores and vigorously condemns the malicious use of the human rights issue for political ends, as can be seen in the unfounded and unwarranted accusations levelled against it at each annual evaluation session of the Commission on Human Rights in Geneva. Preventive diplomacy should be the very basis of peace-keeping operations. However, preventive diplomacy would be meaningless if the international community were not to grant it a standing, mobile military sector that could be deployed wherever international peace and security were to come under threat. Thus, in the framework of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, the countries of this subregion, with the exception of Rwanda, signed the non-aggression pact at the latest Organization of African Unity (OAU) summit in Yaoundé. In this first year of the second half-century of the United Nations, safeguarding peace and cohesion among peoples are issues of vital importance to all of us. Zaire considers the adoption of the resolution recommending signature of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty at the fiftieth session of the General Assembly to be an important step towards comprehensive nuclear disarmament. We do, of course, recognize that this is not a perfect Treaty. It lacks the firm commitment of nuclear- weapon States to renounce the use and threat of use of such weapons in their relations with other States. It also lacks a precise timetable for complete destruction of existing weapons. It does not mention the banning of nuclear tests in laboratories, which is the most sophisticated modern way of developing such weapons. Despite these imperfections, Zaire joined those delegations that sponsored the resolution, and it voted in favour of the text proposed. I wish to announce officially that Zaire will sign this text tomorrow, 4 October. From this rostrum we appeal to the nuclear-weapon States to put aside their selfish interests and to commit themselves firmly to the new path set out by the Treaty, so that the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons can become a living reality and so that nuclear weapons will no longer threaten future generations, as they have done since the end of the Second World War. We cannot be at peace with ourselves if we fail to take firm action for conventional disarmament as well. I come from a region where the merchants of death have dumped tons and tons of conventional weapons that 15 kill people daily. We urge countries that manufacture and sell these instruments of death to stop taking satisfaction in the positive balance sheets of their international trade, which includes arms sales. This is a shame for all mankind. To those who would give lessons of morality and ethics, we would insist that they look at the way they live and stop sowing death and suffering. Life and happiness are the most fundamental of human rights. In addition to disarmament, worldwide elimination of poverty is fundamental to the strengthening of peace and the realization of comprehensive, sustainable development. At the dawn of the third millennium, it is deplorable to note that more than a billion people today live under conditions of unacceptable poverty and are outside the mainstream of economic and social progress because of imbalances in the international economy. My delegation hopes that, to remedy this situation, the North-South dialogue will be guided more by the imperatives and interests of mutual advantage and benefit, as well as by genuine interdependence. Solidarity demands fairer prices for commodities, access to the markets of developed countries, easing the debt burden and increased official development assistance so as to ensure sustained growth and sustainable development. Last year we commemorated our Organization’s fiftieth anniversary. That occasion was an opportunity for us to focus on the possibilities for an appropriate reform of this Organization, which is unique in its mission and its impact. I would like to offer my country’s reflections on this subject. We are now living in a period of extraordinary contrasts. Despite the historic successes of our Organization — including independence for many countries, the peace process under way in the Middle East, the end of the South African saga and the perceptible tendency of the United Nations towards universality — we must observe with some bitterness that areas of tension have flared up worldwide, sparking anarchy, despair, poverty and death. For this reason, Zaire believes that the Security Council, which is the United Nations body that has foremost responsibility for maintaining international peace and security, and which by its present membership is no longer representative, should be expanded and its functioning improved. In this exercise, the main concern should be to correct the clear imbalance in that body. Expansion of the Council should take into account the will of many countries to become members and the importance of safeguarding its effectiveness. It should avoid making it a body dependent on the General Assembly. For that reason, we think that equitable geographic representation would appropriately remedy the glaring imbalance in the current representation of the Security Council. We encourage the international community to give deep thought to this question and not to forget that one continent — Africa — is at the greatest disadvantage with the current composition of the Council. We refuse to be dragged into the dispute over the veto power of permanent members. We are against the emergence of a category of permanent second-class members in the Security Council. There is a need to look for ways to improve the functioning of the Security Council. It is inconceivable that a State that is concerned in a question being discussed in the Council can participate only in a formal meeting — if there is one — to hear the decision made. If the State were officially involved in the informal consultations on that issue, its direct contribution to the members of the Council could enable them to adopt decisions that would be well thought out and realistic rather than being imposed. We must have the courage to put an end to the anti- democratic character of this important United Nations body. All the parties involved should be given the opportunity to defend themselves before the members of the Council. This is a basic rule of the administration of justice. We take note of the report of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council, and we encourage it to pursue its consideration of this matter.  ﻿I wish to congratulate the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session on his election to his high office. I would like to express my confidence that he will accomplish his important mission honourably. There is no doubt that the fifty-first session of the General Assembly will go down in the history of mankind as an important milestone on the world community’s road to global peace and security. One of the most important diplomatic documents of our century, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, has been opened for signing. On that occasion the President of Kazakstan, Mr. Nursultan Nazarbaev, made a special statement, which has been circulated as an official United Nations document. The people of Kazakstan, having fully experienced the destructive power of nuclear weapons, resolutely voted to end the testing of these lethal weapons. In 1991 the President of Kazakstan, expressing the wish of his people, made a decision to shut down the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site. Thus, Kazakstan had already taken decisive measures to ban nuclear testing five years ago. 20 Kazakstan is consistent in its policy of non- proliferation of nuclear weapons. Recently, we completed the dismantling of the nuclear infrastructure on the territory of Kazakstan, thereby eliminating the capability that was, until recently, the fourth largest in the world. That is why, when giving their due to all the countries which have trod the thorny path of preparing this Treaty, I believe it is necessary to recognize my country’s significant contribution to this extremely important cause. However, considerable progress in disarmament does not, regrettably, guarantee the stability of the present world order. We still witness some negative impulses destroying the basis of the relationship between the States which united more than half a century ago. We have to admit that with the disappearance of a bipolar world, our planet has not become safer. On the contrary, the potential for global conflict has increased considerably increased. That is why the issue of reforming the United Nations, so that our common Organization can adequately respond to conflicting realities of international relations at this juncture, is becoming ever so urgent. Reforms are an indispensable element of any system’s development. They are even more important in the case of such a universal forum as the United Nations. In his speech at the Special Commemorative Meeting of the General Assembly, the President of Kazakstan underscored the important need to increase the world community’s efforts to elaborate a conceptual model of a renewed United Nations. It involves new objectives, tasks and functions of the United Nations of the next century. The United Nations, being a genuinely universal Organization, requires a special approach. It is important to keep in mind that the United Nations is our common home. We cannot count on hotels in case of emergency. That is why United Nations reforms should be approached from rational positions. We want the United Nations to keep up with the times and to tap the potential for self-improvement and elimination of the vestiges of the past. We want the United Nations structure to be more effective and flexible in dealing with the problems threatening peace and security. Supporting the desire of Japan and Germany to become permanent members of the Security Council, Kazakstan is in favour of an expansion of the Council’s non-permanent membership on the basis of an equitable and balanced representation of all regions. All other proposals should also be taken into consideration. Criticism of the United Nations can hardly be a reason for doubting its ability to function and for shifting all the blame onto the Secretary-General. I am sure that we have not yet fully mobilized the creative potential of the United Nations. This applies first of all to the Charter. We should carefully reread it, taking into consideration today’s world order, not to drastically revise, it but to find additional opportunities hidden in this truly comprehensive document. It is our opinion that despite the piles of studies on the legal framework of the United Nations, the Charter itself contains enormous unexplored potential for the renewal of the United Nations. Until the United Nations mobilizes these dormant capabilities it will create the impression of a dormant Organization unable to respond to the challenges of today. We have to take a closer look at those provisions of the Charter that deal with cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations, or, speaking the language of the Charter, with regional arrangements and agencies. This kind of interaction would be extremely effective for the development of an early warning system and preventive diplomacy. Besides, active cooperation with regional organizations would be beneficial when dealing with economic problems. I would like to recall President Nursultan Nazarbaev’s proposal to include in the agenda of a future session of the General Assembly an item entitled “United Nations reforms — an adequate response to the challenges of the twenty-first century”. One does not have to elaborate on the need to ensure stability and security in the Central Asia region. Kazakstan, as a strategically important State in this region, makes every effort to guarantee tranquillity in Central Asia. However, the situation in the region defies straightforward assessment. There are zones of tranquillity, including Kazakstan, but there are also zones of conflict. One matter of great concern is the situation in Afghanistan. Further escalation of the conflict in Afghanistan could have negative effects on the situation in Central Asia. We are grateful to the Security Council for paying attention to the situation in that country. There is no doubt that the Security Council statement of 28 September 1996 is important for the resolution of the situation there. At the same time, we urge the Security Council to take up this item again in order to elaborate measures to stop the conflict. 21 The situation in Central Asia underscores the need for greater interaction between the region and the United Nations. Such interaction would cause Central Asia to become more involved in international cooperation. Central Asia could undoubtedly contribute to the establishment of a safer world order. In this regard, we pin great hopes on the establishment by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) of a joint commission for Central Asia. We appreciate the positive United Nations reaction to this initiative of our Head of State. Kazakstan wants to join the World Trade Organization as soon as possible and is taking concrete steps in this direction. We are grateful to the United Nations for its support of Kazakstan’s proposal concerning the resolution on transit environment in the landlocked States of Central Asia. We are also pleased at the positive reaction of the United Nations to the initiative of the leaders of the three Central Asian States concerning the formation of a Central Asian peacekeeping battalion. I would like to take this opportunity to state that the Central Asian peacekeeping battalion will be committed to the United Nations Charter and will serve the ideals and purposes of our Organization. Four years ago, speaking at the United Nations, the President of Kazakstan pointed out the necessity of convening a conference on interaction and confidence- building measures in Asia. It is with deep satisfaction that we can report that our quest for peace and security on the Asian continent is being supported by an ever increasing number of States. Experts are at work on a permanent basis. A conference on Asian security took place at the level of Deputy Foreign Ministers. We are especially grateful to the United Nations for its assistance in the implementation of the initiative of our Head of State. Kazakstan regards the convocation of this conference on interaction and confidence-building measures in Asia as its contribution to United Nations global peacekeeping efforts. Kazakstan fully supports the peace-making activities of the United Nations in different parts of the world. We have no doubt that the United Nations should play a priority role in the maintenance of international peace and security. Our common task is to prevent United Nations peace-making functions from being delegated to any other organizations. The diminished peace-making potential of the United Nations is not its fault, but its misfortune. Kazakstan believes that United Nations peace- making activities could be rendered more effective through a more precise formulation and strengthening of the missions’ mandates. They could thereby make a significant contribution to the resolution of crisis situations. When we talk about international issues we cannot ignore a trend as alarming as the growth of secessionism. This phenomenon has become one of the major causes of crisis situations in the world, particularly in the post- Soviet context. We think that the United Nations must pay close attention to the destructive consequences of aggressive secessionism. The time has come to put an end to the absolute right of nations to self-determination. Basically, the world has already realized the right to self- determination; further continuation of this process will create new trouble spots and lead to more bloodshed. The current world order should rest on the principles of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States. If we really care about the stability of the current world order we must firmly reject any manifestation of secessionism. Our highest values should be the peace, well-being and happiness of peoples, and we can achieve these goals not by instigating peoples to self-determination but by creating appropriate conditions for the sustainable economic development of all nations. From this lofty rostrum it is impossible to ignore another problem that brings great pain to humankind, a pain which our country feels especially acutely. I am referring to environmental disasters. There may be no other place in the world where such vast territories are affected by the consequences of these disasters. Indeed, more than half of Kazakstan’s territory could be declared an environmental disaster area. However, it is not only a matter of territories, but people who are still suffering. The Semipalatinsk nuclear test site and the Aral Sea have become disaster areas of global dimensions. Furthermore, we should not forget that Kazakstan has been the site of chemical and biological weapons tests. All these problems require priority attention from the United Nations. During economic transition, even large States cannot cope alone with environmental problems of such magnitude. It is also important to remember that it is innocent people who suffer, not the ones who created or tested these lethal weapons. They are the victims of the arms race between the two opposing systems, victims of 22 the totalitarian thinking of the cold war period. They have every right to demand the attention of international organizations and donor countries. We cannot say that the United Nations has been indifferent to the consequences of the environmental disasters in Kazakstan. But, at the same time, we cannot claim that the victims of these environmental disasters have felt practical results of the activities of international missions. We are grateful to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the World Bank for the elaboration of large-scale programmes for the rehabilitation of the Aral Sea zone. At the same time, we are looking forward to a more active execution of these programmes. Meanwhile, the situation in this region, as well as in other environmental disaster areas, remains extremely serious. Kazakstan welcomes and supports the resolution of the United Nations General Assembly to convene a special session on environment and sustainable development in the middle of next year. We hope that this forum will adopt meaningful decisions on environmental problems that also affect our country. This century, which has witnessed two world wars, the collapse of the colonial system and the disintegration of the socialist system, has begun a new phase. This phase has new dimensions, both geo-political and geo-economic. In politics, a trend towards the globalization of international problems has been apparent. With the end of the cold war, the problems of nuclear non-proliferation have not been solved. The problem of environmental security has acquired global dimensions. The globalization of communications has triggered illegal trafficking in weapons, drugs and money of giant proportions. A new information realm has been formed in which national borders have become merely symbolic. Previously unknown methods of production have emerged, increasingly referred to as “computer civilization”. Scientific research and technological factors have grown in importance as never before. New technologies have become the hottest items in world markets. The role of a State in world economic ties is changing; it is no longer the dominant institute. International institutes function as independent international economic entities. It is with this list of problems, which is far from being complete, that we are entering the next century. We have yet to sort them out and find optimal ways to adapt to new realities which will be facing us in the twenty-first century. We have to admit that humankind, creating these problems through its activities, still cannot find adequate ways to solve them. That is why we turn to the United Nations. Our common home is becoming a quintessence of the human mind. We have to help the United Nations reach a new level in dealing with global trends. A renewed Organization, promptly reacting to the challenges of today, will not only enrich itself but will also give us a sense of confidence on the eve of the next century.  ﻿I wish to take this opportunity on behalf of His Excellency President Amata Kabua and the Government and the people of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to thank and to acknowledge the leadership of the outgoing President, Professor Diogo Freitas do Amaral, and also to congratulate you, Ambassador Razali Ismail, on your well-deserved election to the high office of the Presidency of the General Assembly. I am pleased to inform you, Sir, that at the recently concluded South Pacific Forum meeting in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, your country, Malaysia, was invited to join the post-forum dialogue next year as a partner, where we hope to further our cooperation. In our capacity as Chairman of the South Pacific Forum, I have the honour first to make some remarks of a regional nature on behalf of the Forum members that are also United Nations Members, followed by some remarks of a more national perspective. The South Pacific Forum held its twenty-seventh meeting last month in Majuro, the capital of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. The theme for this session, “Pacific Solidarity for the Common Good”, highlights one of the important building blocks of our regional cooperation towards sustainable development. The Forum leaders reviewed a broad range of measures in the area of economic reform and development. These and other important decisions of the South Pacific Forum leaders are contained in the Forum communiqué, which has been submitted to the Secretary-General and will be circulated as an official United Nations document. In his opening remarks to the Forum at Majuro, the President of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, His Excellency Mr. Amata Kabua, emphasized the unity and the harmony of the nations gathered at the meeting, which traversed immense ocean barriers. The restraining pull of national interests and cultural differences are all harmonized — fine-tuned, so to speak — into a single sea of unity. It is through this unity that seemingly insurmountable obstacles or intractable problems can be resolved. In deliberating on and reviewing their respective performances together and charting the way towards a prosperous and secure future for the region, the Forum leaders gave deeper meaning to the theme of this year’s session. I wish to make some remarks about the outcome of those discussions. Climate change is a global problem that 5 requires a global solution. The Forum has again highlighted its concern over climate change and called for urgent action in view of the second assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which states that the balance of scientific evidence suggests a discernible human influence on the global climate. This report has given us much to be concerned about, and the Forum countries call on the international community to accelerate negotiations at the next conference of the parties. The international community needs to achieve significant progress towards the goal of lowering greenhouse gas emissions in the near future. The survival of many small island developing States, as well as many other developing States that are adversely affected in some way by climate change depends upon our taking action. We will all be adversely affected by climate change. For this reason we reaffirm our full support for the alliance of small island States protocol in the context of the discussions of the Ad Hoc Group on the Berlin Mandate, which calls for stronger carbon dioxide reductions in a time-bound framework. During this session of the General Assembly we will review progress on a number of related issues under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, including fisheries conservation and management and efforts to reduce the incidence of illegal fishing practices. We will also reiterate the importance that our region has placed on the effectiveness of an international legal regime for oceans and their resources, including, in our view, providing adequate financial resources to the International Seabed Authority in Kingston, Jamaica. The Forum leaders underscored the importance that the Pacific fish stocks have for international trade and our livelihood. We recognize that this important resource must be managed sustainably to maximize its benefits to our region. In this connection, the Forum leaders have requested our regional experts to develop comprehensive agreements for the sustainable management of the region’s fisheries across the full geographical range of the stocks, including the high seas, taking into account the Agreement on straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks opened for signature here in New York last year. The Republic of the Marshall Islands has offered to host a second High-level Multilateral Consultation on the Conservation and Management of Fisheries Resources of the Central Western Pacific next year to advance this process. This ministerial meeting will discuss a number of issues, including restocking, greater involvement of the distant-water-fishing nations in conservation and management, data gathering on the range of the stocks, and transshipments. The Forum leaders are also committed to the review and appraisal of Agenda 21, which will take place at the special session of the General Assembly next year. Mechanisms have been established for regional dialogue, partnership and participation in the development of concrete proposals for action regarding the progress made since the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in 1992. The Forum has asked its Advisory Committee to coordinate these tasks and make preparations to submit reports to that special session. In this respect I wish to call on our development partners to support the efforts of the Forum countries and our regional organizations, so that the special session will be a thorough and comprehensive review. But in this regard, we caution against a proliferation of organizations and meetings when the concerted efforts of the international community should be focused on practical measures, which will improve on the efforts under way at the regional level. It is problematic for our administrations, with limited resources, to cover too many meetings dealing with the same topics, and we fear that unnecessary duplication may occur as a result. We will report to that session on a number of initiatives, following on from the report submitted to the Commission on Sustainable Development in 1996 by the South Pacific Regional Environmental Programme (SPREP). In our region we recognize the importance of the multiple role that forests have, and the need for a comprehensive approach by the international community to the sustainable management and conservation of all types of forests. For our part in sustainable forests management, the Forum endorsed a South Pacific Code of Conduct for Logging of Indigenous Forests in selected South Pacific Forum countries. Also, in the light of the fact that 1997 will be the Year of the Coral Reef in the Pacific, we hope to include progress reports on the implementation of coastal-zone-management strategies. The international community took steps at the Barbados Conference to acknowledge the special situation and interests of small island developing States. We stress the need to give particular attention to the comprehensive Programme of Action produced at that Conference, and to have the special needs of small island developing States adequately addressed in the United Nations development efforts. In its review of Agenda 21 the special session 6 should lay the grounds for further international cooperation, national and regional initiative, and the mobilization of resources for meeting the sustainable development needs of small island developing States. I wish to raise some of issues of political significance for our region. The Forum commended progress by France and parties in New Caledonia on the implementation of the Matignon Agreements. It welcomed the recent reception accorded to the Ministerial Mission from the Forum countries by the French and New Caledonian authorities. Forum countries encourage all parties to continue dialogue in the search for a durable solution to the question of the territory’s long-term future. I wish to inform the General Assembly that the Forum has reaffirmed its strong and unanimous support for Australia’s candidature for the Security Council in this year’s election. Furthermore, in recognition of the importance of Japan as a constructive partner for the region, the Forum also expressed strong and unanimous support for the candidature of Japan at the same election. The Forum expressed satisfaction at the permanent cessation of French nuclear testing in the South Pacific. This marked the end of all nuclear testing in a region that had been subjected to both atmospheric and underground testing for five decades. China’s recent announcement of a moratorium on nuclear testing meant that all five nuclear- weapon States were now observing testing moratoriums long urged by the Forum. Earlier this month the General Assembly took action to adopt and open for signature a comprehensive test-ban Treaty (CTBT). This was an effort fully supported by the Forum, and the resolution was sponsored by all the United Nations members of the Forum. We are pleased with the passage of resolution 50/78, and urge all States to join with us in signing and ratifying the CTBT as soon as possible, to facilitate the Treaty’s earliest implementation. We should recall the Advisory Opinion tendered by the International Court of Justice on the legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons, which recognized that all members of the international community have an obligation to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control. The Forum leaders urged all States concerned, particularly the nuclear-weapon States, to continue meaningful negotiations with a view to further significant reductions of nuclear stockpiles in the near future as a step towards the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons. They also warmly welcomed the signature and ratification by Vanuatu of the South Pacific Nuclear-Free Zone Treaty, the signature of Tonga, and the signing of the protocols to the Treaty by France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. As a result of these developments, all States within the Treaty area have now given their support to the Treaty, and all five nuclear-weapon States have undertaken to respect its provisions. We welcome the ratification by France of the protocols. The Forum also urged early ratification of the protocols by the United Kingdom and the United States of America. The Forum leaders were encouraged by the establishment since their last meeting of two nuclear- weapon-free zones: in South-East Asia and Africa. Leaders noted with satisfaction that these developments represented progress with respect to the decisions accompanying the indefinite extension in 1995 of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In this context, Forum leaders expressed support for an appropriate resolution at this session of the United Nations General Assembly whereby signatory States of the southern hemisphere nuclear-weapon-free-zone treaties and other members of the international community could affirm their support for these zones and cooperate in the furtherance of the goals of these zones and of nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. The Forum again reaffirmed the existence of a special responsibility towards those peoples of the former United Nations Trust Territory administered by the United States, the Marshall Islands, which was adversely affected as a result of nuclear-weapon tests conducted during the period of the trusteeship. This responsibility includes the safe resettlement of displaced human populations and the restoration to economic productivity of affected areas. The Forum wishes again to raise concerns over shipments of plutonium and radioactive wastes through our region. These shipments must be carried out in accordance with the strictest international safety and security standards. All contingencies must be fully addressed, and full consultation must be carried out with the countries of the regions through which the shipments will occur. I now wish to make some comments on behalf of my national delegation. In regard to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), it is important that countries that were 7 severely affected by nuclear testing play a role in the 51- member Executive Council being envisaged within the CTBT framework to oversee all aspects of the implementation of the Treaty. I wish to reiterate that the Republic of the Marshall Islands stands ready to present its candidacy for that Council, once established. We are grateful to President Clinton and his Administration for their transparent policy of disclosing previously classified information relating to the nuclear- testing programme in the Marshall Islands. We also wish to thank our friends and supporters in the United States Congress for their assistance. We hope that our cooperation continues to improve and that the process of disclosure is accelerated. All the information pertaining to the nuclear- testing programme should be provided to my Government, in order that we may fully comprehend the implications for our planning for the health and well-being of our citizens and our environment. The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands has recently learned that the damage caused by nuclear-weapon-test programmes during the trusteeship is far greater and more horrible than originally disclosed. The radiation released by all 67 nuclear-weapon tests is currently known to affect more atolls and more groups of people than previously disclosed, as reported by the White House Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments. The health, environment, medical, social and economic consequences resulting from the effects of the radiation released remains a major concern for the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. As a result, at our current level of knowledge the costs related to the effects of radiation make it very hard to properly treat and care for the people who have, and continue to show, radiation-related illnesses. This also applies to programmes related to the rehabilitation of contaminated islands and the safe resettlement of affected communities. We cannot solve these problems on our own, and we feel obliged to appeal to the international community. Our concern continues to be that our situation has not been fully addressed and rectified until now. We welcome the new willingness of the United States authorities to constructively work with the Republic of the Marshall Islands to address the full range of outstanding nuclear issues, which have for so long affected our relationship and the well-being of our people. We acknowledge the assistance that has been provided up to now, which includes efforts at clean-up and resettlement. But much more needs to be done. We reiterate the call that was made to the High-level Open-ended Working Group of the General Assembly on the Financial Situation of the United Nations to reduce the so-called floor rate in the scale of assessments. This is an issue of vital importance to all developing countries with small economies, in particular a large number of small island developing States and least developed countries. The situation was firmly noted by the Committee on Contributions in its last report: “the current floor assessment rate of 0.01 per cent resulted in a serious departure from the principle of capacity to pay for a number of smaller Member States.” (A/50/11/Add.2, para. 50) We call on the Fifth Committee to take action on this matter as soon as possible, and the time for this has come at this session of the General Assembly. In our view, this would have a beneficial effect for over 60 countries. Another area of reform that is of great concern to us is the expansion of the Security Council. The need for a more democratic process and for allowing greater participation in the work of the Council is something that we all reaffirmed during the fiftieth-anniversary session. However, we have to make more progress in implementing our ideas in this regard. This will be a very important year for the United Nations in that we will take stock of many of our current activities and lay the groundwork for many others. As Chair of the South Pacific Forum, the Republic of the Marshall Islands will spare no effort to ensure a successful conclusion to this year’s agenda. The Republic of the Marshall Islands has been an active participant in this Assembly in the five years that we have been a member. We have come a long way since the adoption of our Constitution in 1979. We pledge our cooperation to the President’s leadership and we look forward to working closely with him and the members of the General Assembly.  ﻿Allow me first of all to express the honour I feel as an Andorran at the distinction that has been conferred on our small country by this Assembly through your election, Mr. Minoves-Triquell, as a Vice-President for this year’s session of the General Assembly. I thank you for calling on me to address this Assembly and assure you of the support of the people of Andorra and, I am sure, of all those who speak the Catalan language. I must also thank the outgoing President, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his excellent tenure at the helm of the General Assembly during the year of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. I do this with the satisfaction of congratulating an illustrious Portuguese, a brother from the Iberian peninsula who has been able to give this Assembly the necessary impetus to start off on the right foot and with hope for the new era of 50 years that must take us to the one hundredth anniversary of the United Nations. I wish also to convey to the new President, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, my warmest congratulations and those of my country on his election, and I have the great pleasure of assuring him of the close collaboration of the Andorran Vice-President of the General Assembly, who will always be at his service. Andorra looks to the future of the world with optimism, sure that on this Earth men and women of good will will know how to overcome intolerance and injustice. In order to advance towards these objectives of progress, we will have to count on the United Nations. Its reform, which the Secretary General, at the call of all the States, has promoted during these last years, will give us a more efficient Organization, with more coordination and less costly duplication, responsible in the financial sphere and concentrated on its mandate. My fellow citizens often ask me, “What can a small country like Andorra bring to the United Nations?” We are a State with very little land and with a population that we count in six tens of thousands, and we lack the political weight the force of arms normally provides. However, our small size has been our good fortune. We have opted to lack armies and cannons since we destroyed all our country’s fortifications in 1278. One day, we would hope, that admirable action of the thirteenth-century Andorrans will be imitated by our century’s over-armed Powers, large, mid-sized and small. Our small population has been a good school for human understanding and our individual and collective aspirations, allowing for the precision of small-scale observation. Because we are small and peaceful, and because we have a lengthy history, we bring to the United Nations a vision of the world that is patient and optimistic, and it is our belief that if we have lived in our territory without bellicose conflict for more than 700 years, the same is also possible beyond our borders, for, in the end, the men and women who live in Andorra are different from the rest of mankind only in their collective historical experience. It is the young people growing up in this latter part of the twentieth century who will pave the way to the third millennium. I should thus like to make them the main point of my statement this year in the Assembly’s general debate. Later, I will mention my State’s hopes for the young who are today being educated in an understanding of the challenges of the United Nations and of the need to promote democracy and human rights as the pillars of the peace, prosperity and justice for peoples that we are striving to attain, goals that, if we hurry in our task, we may be able to glimpse ourselves. Earlier, I indicated that Andorra trusts the future. One of the principal reasons for that trust is probably the fact that a great part of our population is young and that our demographic pyramid is very different from those of our Western European neighbours. When human beings are young, everything seems possible. The energy we all possess allows us to look forward with strength, with courage and with hope. Raisons d’état, political evils, economic imperatives, the belief that the end justifies the means — all these have difficulty taking root in the young, since youth cares more about fidelity in friendship, more about making its imprint on society. Youth has idealism — something we too often criticize but something which feeds the genuine and vital fire that compels human beings to strive for dialogue and genuine coexistence — to aspire, for example, to the United Nations. It is that aspect of the young that we must nourish if we desire a better world. Unfortunately, it is still very difficult for many young people to seek the good of mankind when in their own countries, cities or villages, 9 in their homes or in their families, they lack the most basic physical or spiritual necessities, when the education they are given is the official doctrine of a despotic regime and when — as was the case with their parents and their grandparents before them — what they eat today is the meagre wage of much sweat. In the developed countries, unemployment among the young crushes the hopes of a large part of today’s well-prepared generation, which will be forced to waste the education that decades of economic progress have enabled it to obtain. In States still striving to achieve development, in which 84 per cent of the world’s population between 15 and 24 years of age lives, the situation is very worrying: AIDS, the rural exodus, poverty, hunger, medical shortcomings, sexual exploitation, juvenile delinquency — problems that also affect the developed countries — are particularly acute. Unemployment in developing countries is also a tragic evil. We know that more than 100 million new jobs will have to be created in the next two decades to satisfy the growing young and active population of the developing countries. In confronting these problems we who govern must assume our responsibilities and give priority to policies affecting the young, especially those geared towards fighting youth unemployment. One of the first areas we must encourage is obviously that of training. Governments must coordinate economic plans with training policies so that students can learn professions that they will have some chance of practicing, as well as to prevent, insofar as possible, an excess of graduates in saturated sectors. We must also give appropriate encouragement, through programmes of coordination and technical assistance when necessary, to the integration of young people into the community. Small communities, when they work in conjunction with non-governmental organizations, pay special attention to the management of resources and are well aware of the needs of their young people. This joint effort is most appropriate when we recall that we are living in an era in which society realizes that big government and its programmes sometimes give rise to more expenditure than advantages and that fiscal responsibility is of more benefit to the economy than is the multiplication of governmental departments, especially in the developing countries, where the public sector is still suffering the consequences of large-scale programmes that have not produced the results expected. In those States, Governments will find it to their advantage to acknowledge the value of fostering microcredits for young people with entrepreneurial projects. The example of Bangladesh, where such credits have enabled many women to achieve financial independence, is noteworthy in this respect. I would also mention as an example of successful action the educational measures for young entrepreneurs that some Latin American States have taken with a view to the creation of new, small companies. At the United Nations, States must give direct support to young people and to the programmes related to them. More specifically, I am thinking of the World Programme of Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond. That Programme, which was adopted by the General Assembly on 14 December 1995, defines some of the problems that affect the world’s young people and indicates medical, educational and job-oriented priorities for the next few years. We must enlarge on that text. States Members of the United Nations must collaborate with the Secretariat in defining the Programme’s possibilities and putting it into practice in a concrete way so that its message reaches all nations. What we do with today’s youth will define the twenty-first century. For the past year Andorra has actively participated at the United Nations in the debates involving the young. On 26 October of last year, in commemorating the tenth anniversary of the International Youth Year, our Ambassador spoke in this Hall on the benefits of teaching tolerance and human rights to young people in schools. Andorra has also contributed to the United Nations Youth Fund. Earlier, at the March 1995 Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development, Andorra proposed a full and specific commitment asking the Governments of the world to foster dialogue between generations and achieved its incorporation into the Declaration by Heads of State and Government. Given the lack of specific references in many United Nations texts, this provides a good basis for subsequent studies on youth-related themes. At this juncture, I should like to say that the fact that we concentrate our attention on youth must never lead us to forget members of older generations, particularly the elderly. Dignity in ageing must be recognized and promoted, particularly today, when the progress of medicine is making possible the lengthening of human life. Intergenerational solidarity accompanied by dialogue, is an integral theme of any policy geared to the support of the young. Indeed, when we talk of giving primary attention to youth, that must not mean a glorification of the first decades of human life to the detriment of old age. On the contrary, it should mean a recognition of the 10 determining role that young people play in what will happen later. I should like for a moment to pay a tribute here to a generation of young people which the media has of late characterized as being “lost” — the young people of Bosnia and other parts of the former Yugoslavia who, not so many years ago, were confident children of Europe and who have now spent their youth amidst fratricidal struggles and “ethnic cleansing”, with all the revulsion inherent in that expression, a youth spent between death and barbarism. Andorra, which, during the Spanish Civil War and later during the Second World War, was a land of welcome and refuge for other lost generations of other wars — also fratricidal, and, indeed, if all human beings are brothers, what war is not fratricidal? — feels solidarity with these young people of Bosnia, upon whom has fallen the responsibility for building a new coexistence and for erasing from the collective consciousness these past years of propaganda and demagoguery and for breaking with the history of confrontation that afflicts the Balkans. Bosnia is not the only place where we have witnessed difficult times. Angola, Afghanistan, Cambodia, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Haiti, Guatemala, El Salvador, Burundi, Rwanda, Iraq and many other places have in recent years been affected by conflicts of great complexity. Some of these problems have already been solved or attenuated, often thanks to United Nations action. Developments in the situation in El Salvador are a good example. Other conflicts continue, a cause of great consternation to the international community. My Minister of Foreign Affairs reminded us last year, in this Assembly Hall, of the considerable increase in military personnel deployed for the United Nations in recent years. At the beginning of 1988, there were just over 9,000 Blue Helmets in the world engaged in peacekeeping operations. Seven years later, there are over 70,000 — this in spite of the fact that the military and logistical means of immediate action are not in the hands of this international Organization. Ultimately, we — the States that decide how this Organization shall act — are the ones responsible for failing to end or prevent conflicts. Criticism must be constructive. When we accuse the United Nations of a lack of action in Bosnia, let us ask ourselves why the policies of the members of the Security Council are so divergent and difficult to coordinate. We must therefore make an effort to provide information so that the public has an accurate idea of what really happens behind the flags that adorn this building. We must make the successes of the United Nations known, not just its shortcomings. We must highlight its efforts to promote international law, a body of law that will guarantee negotiated solutions instead of shows of strength, a principle that is essential for the survival of small States. We must recognize the small, quiet steps humanity takes day by day in United Nations committees, steps geared towards the promotion and application of human rights. If in a particular State some people, be it only a few, no longer suffer torture or repulsive abuse when they are arrested; if in some parts of the world blood is not shed because international shame projects itself on those countries; if in other places, nuclear tests will not shatter the peace of the people living there because we have signed a treaty prohibiting such actions, then the United Nations deserves all our support. We must foster confidence in the future of men and women, not cynicism towards international organizations. If we do not, we run the risk of encouraging movements that seek to express this cynicism through violence and terrorist acts. We have no choice but to consider the means democracy gives to its enemies that they can use to destroy it, particularly through terrorism. When the media tell us that the United Nations is a potential terrorist target, we become even more conscious of our commitment to strengthening efforts more effectively to publicize the task of our Organization. The energies of our youth must not be directed towards violent expressions of social discomfort. We must therefore channel them, as I have stated before, towards creativity in one’s work and promoting confidence in humanity’s potential. When, a few years ago, the political scientist Francis Fukuyama, as witness to the end of the cold war, wrote about the end of history, he forgot about the immense creativity of human beings. When one period of history ends, another one begins. Our responsibility is to ensure that the period of history we have entered in the nineties rejects the obscurantism produced by the fear perpetuated by human beings, and reflects the qualities humanity holds highest. The framing of a Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which I will sign tomorrow on behalf of the Andorran Government, along with many of the representatives here, is an achievement of which the United Nations Organization can feel proud and a clear example of what we can do when the peoples of the world unite with the strength of an ideal of peace. Andorra, an initial co-sponsor of the resolution that brought this Treaty to the General Assembly, adheres to 11 its principles in full, principles which provided the basis for the founding of our country. In the same fashion, not very long ago we gave top priority to acceding to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons with the hope of promoting that text of peace. Peace! The cry of alignment for the traditionally neutral States, one of the most noble cries, is — let us not fool ourselves — still far from being answered. The CTBT is only the first step, and an essential one, towards more efforts to ensure nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, and the reduction of other types of arsenals — goals to which Andorra will devote much attention. To help achieve these objectives, the Government of Andorra has a mandate of solidarity which is enshrined in our Constitution. In its preamble, the Andorran people declare themselves eager to make every effort to promote values such as freedom, justice, democracy and social progress, to maintain and strengthen Andorra’s harmonious relations with the rest of the world on the basis of mutual respect, coexistence and peace, and willing to bring their collaboration and effort to all the common causes of humankind. At present, States, large or small, within the framework of the United Nations, have a duty to provide a source of inspiration for the ideals of youth, prevent isolationism and look beyond their borders, share experiences and show solidarity with States in distress. This notwithstanding, Governments continue to have a fundamental role in the internal activities of States, so that few United Nations efforts and initiatives can really be effective without their active cooperation. For this reason, the leaders of States who, year after year, gather in this Assembly Hall must leave here convinced of our unavoidable responsibility to promote human rights within our own borders and social and economic development in our States. In accordance with article 29 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Andorra signed and ratified less than a year ago, thus contributing to the universal process of ratification so desired by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), it is vital that Governments ensure that tolerance and human rights are taught freely and comprehensively at school in order to rear new generations that are much more sensitive to the universality and relevance of these rights. We must also encourage States still using other forms of government to adopt democratic processes, and make the rule of law a priority for leaders in the coming years. There are no peoples unprepared for democracy, only leaders with little aptitude for fostering it. I wanted to introduce a spirit of optimism in my speech today. When optimism does not conceal reality, but instead tries to transcend it, it is the best remedy against the apathy that can affect the human heart in a world full of conflict. I have spoken of youth and its optimism, and of the need to focus our attention on the problems affecting youth. I have lauded the successes of the United Nations, but I have also noted the difficulties we will have to overcome if the United Nations, is to enjoy qualitative growth. I have advocated the teaching of human rights, of democracy, of tolerance, and of social and individual responsibility for the progress of human communities. Four years before the new millennium, we must give our youth optimism and confidence in the future. One year ago, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Andorra concluded his statement before this Assembly with some words by Robert Kennedy. Previously, my predecessor in the presidency of the Andorran Government borrowed from John Fitzgerald Kennedy the expression “Ich bin ein Berliner” to declare himself an Andorran in a speech on the particularities of small States. To make reference to the Kennedys is to make reference to an optimistic decade imprinted with the ideals and dreams that a young American President spread around the world. It was also a decade of harsh realities and contradictions, as in the world today. Ideals, however, last because there is always a new generation to adopt them. Today I reiterate the promise that President Kennedy made to the United Nations: “To that world assembly of sovereign states, the United Nations, our last, best hope in an age where the instruments of war have far outpaced the instruments of peace, we renew our pledge of support to prevent it from becoming merely a forum for invective, to strengthen its shield of the new and the weak, and to enlarge the area in which its writ may run”.  ﻿Let me congratulate Ambassador Razali on his election to the office of President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly and wish him all the best in that challenging post. I would also like to thank the outgoing President, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the outstanding manner in which he conducted the work of the previous session. A year ago, many world leaders gathered here to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and, in particular, to discuss its future prospects. No one questioned its importance as a worldwide forum for dealing with important global problems. Based on the principle of universality, it should be open to all those who are willing and ready to participate in this endeavour. But as it enters the second half-century of its existence, the United Nations faces increasing, ever more complex and often even conflicting demands. Its response has often been to try to do everything, eventually watering down its energies and drive, thus contributing to a perception of declining efficiency. It should in fact focus only on what it does best: maintaining international peace and security, promoting respect for human rights, providing development assistance and alleviating human suffering. We therefore believe that a critical stage in its reform should consist of setting out clear-cut priorities for United Nations action. There are areas where the United Nations holds a competitive advantage, where it can act more efficiently than individual States or regional organizations, and where it has proven its ability to achieve more cost- effective and rapid results than other entities. Reform is no longer a subject for discussion. Action is needed. Significant steps in the right direction have, of course, already been taken. We have noted with satisfaction the gradual downsizing of the Secretariat in the past several years and the adoption of a no-growth budget for the current period. Similar efforts by specialized agencies have furthermore included moves towards their better coordination. We welcome the establishment of an Efficiency Board within the Secretariat. Though reform is well under way, the current system is still hindered by overlapping mandates and duplication in the work of various United Nations bodies and specialized agencies. Departments within secretariats suffer from insufficient coordination and oversight mechanisms, unclear priorities and bureaucratic procedures. Intense reflection on these matters is taking place in various United Nations bodies. The Open-ended High-level Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System has discussed rationalizing the General Assembly’s methods and organization of its work, streamlining its agenda and reshaping its subsidiary machinery, as well as reforming the structures and functioning of the Secretariat. We hope that some of these ideas will mature enough to be presented as formal recommendations to the General Assembly. The financial situation of the United Nations continues to be critical, in spite of a reduction in peacekeeping activities. In our view, there are two main causes of this situation: the present method of assessing contributions and arrears. On the first point, we believe that a new scale of assessments should be developed that would equitably reflect the economic circumstances of individual Member States and their capacity to pay, based primarily on gross national product (GNP) indicators. On the second point, it is essential that Member States fulfil their financial obligations in full, on time and without conditions. Certain incentives and disincentives should be adopted to encourage Member States to honour their financial commitments. These measures, however, should not be applied to Members unable to pay for reasons beyond their control. The Czech Republic fully associates itself with the European Union’s package of financial proposals. I recall also that our share of peacekeeping operations has not been determined yet. We take this issue very seriously and have made certain specific proposals to resolve it. 17 Security Council reform has attracted extremely wide attention. As I mentioned in 1995, we support an increase in both permanent and non-permanent seats while insisting on safeguarding rapid and effective Council action. Yet the more members it has, the more its effectiveness will be hindered. In our view, therefore, only a modest expansion is feasible. We oppose new categories of membership. The criteria for new permanent members should include their level of commitment to maintaining peace, to promoting development and to meeting their financial obligations to the United Nations. We believe Germany and Japan are suitable candidates, and support an expanded representation of Africa, Latin America and Asia. The second aspect of Security Council reform relates to its working methods. Several proposals have been submitted, including the Czech one, on a broader interpretation of Article 31 of the United Nations Charter. The proposals submitted include a number of points acceptable to the overwhelming majority of Member States. We regret that the Working Group on the Security Council has not yet reached consensus on any of them. We believe that issues not requiring amendments to the Charter should be resolved separately from those that would. We will pursue our efforts in this respect and strive for some agreement next year. Having been elected to the Economic and Social Council and having assumed the post of its Vice-President, we have taken on a fair share of responsibility for its work. We strongly support reform efforts to restructure the Council and to enhance its efficiency and its coordinating role. It should more adequately reflect the new world economic and social situation. We believe that the Council’s position within the United Nations system should be strengthened and its procedures streamlined. It should provide policy guidance for development activities and become the supreme steering and coordinating body for all United Nations-based programmes that fall under its purview. Restructuring its functional commissions is a key aspect of its reform. Regional economic commissions should play a more visible role. Upgrading development cooperation with Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization is another challenge for the Economic and Social Council. To reduce duplication with the General Assembly, the Council should pass on to the Assembly only those issues that it does not have the power to decide by itself. On the other hand, the General Assembly should strike from its agenda those items that are fully within the Council’s authority. Although the Czech Republic’s two-year term on the Security Council expired at the end of 1995, we continue to pay attention to the conflicts and other events that endanger world peace and security. The Dayton peace process gave a chance to the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to the other countries involved. The September 1996 elections constituted a milestone on the road to a lasting peace in the Balkans. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe performed its election task in an outstanding manner. We applaud all those who participated in those elections. On the other hand, we cannot ignore the fact that the election results reconfirmed ethnic divisions in the country. It will not be easy for the parties to overcome this problem. The international community should therefore remain alert and continue in its peaceful engagement by committing the necessary troops and by exerting political pressure on all the parties to keep up the momentum of the Dayton peace process. Local elections, to be held in November, are the next step in this process. It is important that all planned political institutions be formed and start functioning as soon as possible. Another area of deep interest to us is the Middle East. As a participant in the multilateral talks on peace and economic cooperation in the Middle East and as one of the donor States in the area, we have consistently voiced our full support for the continuation of the peace process based on a just and comprehensive solution of the issues. We do so again today with renewed urgency in view of the recent tragic events in Jerusalem. Security and stability in the Gulf region are important to the Czech Republic. We support all efforts to solve the tense situation concerning Iraq. Iraq must comply unconditionally with all relevant Security Council resolutions in order for sanctions to be lifted and for Iraq to return to the international community. At the same time, the territorial integrity of Iraq must be preserved. We look forward to a peaceful resolution of the Iraqi issue. For humanitarian reasons we hope that Security Council resolution 986 (1995) is implemented as soon as conditions permit. Despite geographical distance, we are deeply concerned by conflicts in African countries, such as 18 Angola, Somalia, Liberia, Rwanda and Burundi. My country supports United Nations efforts to rid these countries of war and suffering, which, besides engendering violence, further widen the gap between developed countries and these often desperately poor countries. The Czech Republic intends to contribute to international stability and economic development. Domestically, we laid the foundations for this policy by strengthening our democratic institutions and by reforming our economy. Internationally, this effort was endorsed last December when the Czech Republic was admitted to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). For my Government, OECD membership amounts also to a serious commitment to share the knowledge and experience of the Czech people with other countries and to provide development assistance. Solid domestic results are also a precondition for membership in the European Union and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). These regional arrangements are vital for Europe’s security structure. Through membership in NATO, the Czech Republic intends to contribute to Europe’s security and stability. The decision on our membership will be made by NATO members and by our country. Russia’s participation in discussions on European security is, of course, critical, and we understand the need for a strategic partnership between NATO and the Russian Federation. These discussions, however, should not precondition the process of NATO enlargement. Peacekeeping is an important tool in the hands of the Security Council. However, it has its limits, in so far as hostilities often occur within States. These limits are dictated by the principles of impartiality, the non-use of force — except in self-defence — and consent of the parties. Following United Nations experiences in Somalia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and, most recently, in Liberia, unwarranted enthusiasm concerning peacekeepers has evaporated. The Czech Republic has been actively participating in United Nations peacekeeping. We support the establishment of stand-by arrangements and intend to participate in the system aimed at expanding United Nations capacities to deploy its forces. My country’s participation in the Implementation Force (IFOR) in Bosnia and Herzegovina is our current major effort devoted to peace. The United Nations does not have peace-enforcement instruments of its own, but regional arrangements are often useful in enforcing peace. Our IFOR experience only confirms this. Last year we signed the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel, and we anticipate its early ratification. We hope that it will enter into force soon. The fifth Review Conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) reconfirmed the elimination of nuclear weapons as its ultimate goal. Concluding the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty represents a significant step in this direction, and we intend to sign the Treaty very shortly. It is disturbing however, that the Conference on Disarmament did not reach consensus on this question and that the Treaty was not adopted unanimously. Every effort should be made to achieve universality of NPT membership. Perhaps the most important task is the implementation of Article VI of the Treaty. The role of the Conference on Disarmament in this process is irreplaceable and will take on even more importance, as the Conference is expected to deal with another growing problem that we want to help resolve — the elimination of anti-personnel landmines. Matters of security have long ceased to be only matters of armies and weapons. The devastating social damage done by drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking threaten the entire international community. Close international cooperation in tackling the drug menace should be our response to this dangerous challenge. International terrorism is another source of great concern. The international community must stand united to suppress it. It is the responsibility of each State to fight terrorism and to strictly apply and abide by all international instruments in this field. We appeal to States that have not ratified the appropriate conventions to do so without delay and to implement them. The Czech Government attaches great importance to the promotion of human rights and in particular to United Nations activities in this field. An environment that upholds human rights is our best protection as individuals and as a society. We defend human rights because it is in our own best interest. This year the Czech Republic has been elected to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. As a member of the Commission, we intend to contribute actively to its work and to meet the objectives of the international community in this field. President Havel is one of the 16 Heads of State or Government who have recently issued a statement on reviving multilateralism. The statement voices deep 19 concern over the lack of progress, both in pace and in scope, of multilateral renewal. Nations must either move forward to reform and strengthen the United Nations system, or we risk facing a weakened solidarity, more unilateralism and perhaps conflict and overt disregard of international law and human values. Multilateral diplomacy goes well beyond the United Nations itself. Regional cooperation is crucial to strengthening global cooperation. Without a stronger United Nations, however, other forms of international cooperation will lose coherence.  I should like first of all to congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail wholeheartedly on his assumption of the presidency of this session. His close association with the United Nations during these years as his country’s representative makes him not only highly qualified for the office but also fully cognizant of the activities, including the needs and challenges, of this, our great Organization. I would assure him of my delegation’s support at all times. In the same vein, I should like to extend appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who worked tirelessly to ensure that the work of the Assembly was both effective and successful. My delegation’s thanks and gratitude also go to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the successful holding of this session in the face of serious financial and other constraints, and for the selfless service he is rendering to our Organization. The quality of his work, as well as his untiring efforts to revitalize our 50-year-old Organization, deserve our full and collective support and encouragement. The Gambia remains committed to the Organization of African Unity’s (OAU) declaration of support for His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali to continue in office as Secretary-General for a second term. Last year, when the delegation of the Gambia addressed the Assembly, we dwelt at length on the twin democratization and development processes in the Gambia. It is fitting today to report on the progress made so far and the successes achieved. Concerning the democratization process, I am pleased to inform this gathering that we successfully conducted a referendum on 8 August 1996 to adopt a new Constitution, and we elected a new President on 26 September 1996. These two activities have been characterized by a high sense of political maturity and civic interest and a high level of voter turnout. The Constitution was adopted by a vote of 270,093 in favour against 113,744 opposed, with a total turnout of 86.9 per cent for the referendum. Not only is this new Constitution the best we have ever had, but it also embraces the people’s political expectations for the advent of a true sense of justice and fair play as well as their deep love of freedom, respect for human rights, and a strong nationalistic feeling predicated on a desire to associate with the rest of the world on a free and equitable basis. Furthermore, the new Constitution ensures that the Second Republic will progress and flourish under the universally respected principles of transparency, accountability and probity — a sine qua non for any honest and well-meaning Government. The presidential election, the penultimate phase of our two-year transitional programme, was held on 26 September 1996. Four political parties presented candidates, and His Excellency Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh, leader of the Alliance for Patriotic Reorientation and Construction (APRC), emerged as the winner. The President-elect polled 220,011 votes, or about 56 per cent of the total votes cast. This resounding victory indicates a strong endorsement by the Gambian people of the policies of the now-dissolved Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council (AFPRC). The distribution of the results and the actual percentages of the votes captured by the respective candidates depict an election that was free and fair — free from the obvious abuses of the position of incumbency. In keeping with the APRC’s philosophy of national unity, the President-elect has extended a message of peace and reconciliation to all Gambians. In his address to the nation on 27 September 1996, following the presidential election, he said: “In democratic elections no voters lose, since the outcome is the collective will of all.” He invited all Gambians, irrespective of political conviction or affiliation, to come together and work for the development of the country. In concluding the democratization process, the Gambia will hold its National Assembly elections on 11 December 1996. Both the Government and the Provisional Independent Electoral Commission attach a great deal of importance to these elections and have therefore been encouraging interested parties and individuals to contest for seats in the National Assembly. We have no doubt that the peace and orderliness that characterized the referendum and presidential election will prevail in the forthcoming elections. It is noteworthy that the electoral process in the Gambia has been complemented by the Government’s priority development projects. During the last two years, the Government demonstrated to the whole world that an important ingredient of national development is the commitment and honesty of a Government in implementing realistic programmes for the benefit of its people. In the education sector, several primary, junior 16 General Assembly 25th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 7 October 1996 and secondary schools were built and a university extension programme launched. In the area of communication, the country’s first-ever television station was commissioned, and the international airport was expanded and modernized. Generally, there has been significant improvement and expansion of the country’s road network to ease the chronic transportation problems. In the health sector, the Government has built a third referral hospital, and more doctors and nurses have been recruited from inside and outside the country. As regards the agricultural sector, mechanization has received greater attention as a step towards achieving food self-sufficiency. In short, more has been achieved in all sectors of the economy during the two years of AFPRC rule than during the 30 years of the previous regime. The resilience of the Gambian economy during the last two years — in spite of the unjustified sanctions imposed on the Gambia by our development partners for purely political reasons, and in the face of other powerful external shocks deriving mainly from trends in the global economy and in world trade — has been reassuring. The Government’s macroeconomic policies and development efforts have helped to create an enabling environment for private investment, including foreign direct investment. In effect, the country’s economic and financial performance during the 1995-96 year showed real gross domestic product growing by 3 per cent. The projections for 1996-97 are for it to grow by 3.5 per cent, with inflation limited to 5 per cent. As we forge ahead, we in the Gambia are proud of our Government and its laudable achievements since it took over the reins of power on 22 July 1994. We have learned the true meaning of democracy: an amicable partnership between people and Government. It is through such a partnership that the Civic Education Programme was successful and that Vision 2020 — a national strategy for socio-economic development, aimed at raising the standard of living of the Gambian population — was launched. I should like at this stage to express the sincere gratitude of the Government and people of the Gambia for the support and assistance received from some members of the international community during the critical period of the transition programme. We fervently hope that this support from our friends and well-wishers will continue to enable us successfully to conduct the National Assembly Elections on 11 December 1996. With the successful end of the two- year transition programme and the peaceful return of our country to democratic civilian rule, we also expect that the international community will now join us in our pursuit to achieve sustainable development. The recently concluded United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) in Istanbul will go down in history as one of the most successful international conferences organized by the United Nations. The Habitat Agenda, adopted by the Conference, reflects generally the acute shortage of shelter and the growing international concern for more and better shelter. Adequate shelter for all and sustainable human settlement development in an urbanizing world remain basic human needs and a universal concern. In fact, the statement by the Secretary-General of Habitat II, Mr. Wally N’Dow, that “Istanbul will be the gateway to development into the next century”, will hold true well into the twenty-first century. The commitment of the Government of the Gambia to the implementation of the Habitat Agenda — including the Global Plan of Action and, in particular, the forging of sustainable partnerships with all actors in the field of human settlements — remains high. The mid-term review of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s in September 1996 provided an opportunity to review progress in Africa’s development. The review reaffirmed the New Agenda as a fundamental and achievable programme for the socio-economic development of Africa, if both Africa and its development partners adhere to the programme’s stated responsibilities and commitments. The review revealed the gradual but encouraging growth of the African economy, with an increased gross domestic product (GDP) of 2.3 per cent in 1995, as compared to 2.1 per cent in 1994. The implementation of the New Agenda, however, continues to be constrained by failure to achieve the United Nations target of devoting 0.7 per cent of the GDP of developed countries, including 0.15 per cent of their GNP, for overseas development assistance to the least developed countries. Africa’s huge external debt burden, which grew at an average annual rate of 1.5 per cent between 1990 and 1995, remains the single most serious constraint to Africa’s consistent economic recovery and sustainable development. Major donors, creditors and the international community should collectively devise a multilateral debt- 17 General Assembly 25th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 7 October 1996 relief programme aimed at completely writing off the debt of developing countries by the turn of the century. The implementation of the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa alongside the New Agenda, and in collaboration with the Bretton Woods institutions and other agencies, will constitute a new and dynamic global approach of working with Africa to accelerate its development. The attainment of the objectives of the Special Initiative within a decade will depend to a large extent on the availability of new and additional funds, rather than on the reprioritizing of programmes and remarshalling of funds identified under the New Agenda. Only in this way can the international community realize — as the President of the World Bank, Mr. Wolfensohn, said in connection with the launching of the Special Initiative — that “there is a need for us to give the push, that help, the assistance which can keep the momentum”. Globalization continues to hold much attraction, but its benefits continue to elude the majority of developing countries. The impact of globalization and liberalization on employment and sustainable socio-economic development in general has been negative. The recent Ninth Meeting of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in South Africa, while reaffirming the international community’s commitment to partnership for development, recognized the disparities among nations as well as the need to help developing countries reap the benefits of globalization and development and to ensure their full and effective participation in the world economy on an equitable basis. The case of the least developed countries has always received the attention and support of the international community, particularly through the adoption of the Paris Declaration and the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s. The mid-term global review of this Programme of Action, held in September 1995, failed to confirm the realization of the programme’s primary objective, which is to arrest and reverse the deterioration in the socio-economic situation in the least developed countries and to revitalize their growth and development. It is noted that the lack of progress in improving the socio-economic performance of LDCs is attributable, in the main, to the failure of the international community to provide the necessary support and assistance through official development assistance, debt relief and benefits from globalization and liberalization. The success of the Programme of Action during the second half of its existence will depend to a large measure on the amount of international support for the economic growth of least developed countries. The attainment of international peace and security remains a vital aspect of our Organization’s work. It is for these reasons that my delegation joins the international community in supporting the United Nations effort to ensure peace and the resolution of conflicts throughout the world. In this regard, the set-back in the peace process evidenced by the upheaval of April 1996 in Liberia was of great concern to the international community. However, thanks to the ceaseless efforts of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), especially through its Committee of Nine on Liberia, the peace process is back on track, and so far there has been satisfactory progress on its implementation. In spite of the difficulties encountered over the past few years in the implementation of the Abuja Agreement, it is still our firm belief that the Agreement remains the best framework for restoring durable peace to Liberia. With the genuine commitment and goodwill of all parties and the continued support of the international community, especially the United Nations, I am confident that a lasting solution will soon be found. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina gives some hope that the brokered peace will continue to hold. The elections of 14 September 1996 and the new federal Government which has been created should hopefully lead to national unity and reconciliation. It is sad to note that the civil war in Somalia, after simmering down for some time, has suddenly flared up again. The renewed fighting has put a great deal of strain on the peace process. The efforts of the Organization of African Unity and of the international community in general to contain hostilities and restore peace, security and stability continue to receive our fullest support. The dramatic deterioration of the situation in Burundi is a major source of concern for all peace-loving people the world over. We are indeed saddened by the spate of ethnic killings in this country, which continue to claim many innocent lives. It is our collective responsibility to put an end to this sorry state of affairs and thus avert a replay of the tragic events that occurred in neighbouring Rwanda some two years ago. In this regard, we continue closely to monitor the evolution of the political situation in Burundi and hope that peace, security and order will be permanently restored. We 18 General Assembly 25th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 7 October 1996 therefore strongly support the OAU peace initiatives, in particular the Mwanza peace process and the Arusha peace initiative, aimed at guaranteeing security and democracy for all people in Burundi. The peace dividend so far achieved in our search for a lasting peace in the Middle East should not be allowed to fade away. Rather, we should continue to pursue the peace process in order to achieve a lasting peace in the region on the basis of the relevant Security Council resolutions. The quest for peace is a universal concern of the international community. At the same time, the desire for equality and recognition continues to elude some nations. The Republic of China on Taiwan’s quest for recognition and readmission into the United Nations has failed to have the necessary impact on the attitude and goodwill of the international community. Today, the Republic of China on Taiwan stands very high in the international arena in the field of economic growth and social development. It is noted not only for its economic achievements, but also for its exemplary political reform. The direct election of its President on 23 March 1996, an event unprecedented in Chinese history, marked the culmination of Taiwan’s political democratization. This accomplishment ought to be recognized by the United Nations, in accordance also with the principle of universality. My country believes that the precedent of parallel United Nations membership, which applied to the former East Germany and West Germany and currently applies to North Korea and South Korea, should be applied in the case of the Republic of China on Taiwan. Besides the membership factor, which is in accordance with Article 4 of the United Nations Charter, there is a justice factor relating to Articles 1 and 2 of the same Charter. It is regrettable that this factor was not included in our debate when the matter was considered at the meeting of the General Committee of the General Assembly, held on 18 September 1996, in connection with the item on the draft agenda entitled “Consideration of the exceptional situation of the inability, resulting from General Assembly resolution 2758 (XXVI), of the 21.3 million people on Taiwan, Republic of China, to participate in the activities of the United Nations”. As we all know, one can quantify numbers of signatures, but not emotions — that is, sympathy with and an interest and belief in the justification and rightness of the case of Taiwan. It is our conviction that the parallel participation of the two sides of the Taiwan strait in the United Nations and other international organizations would be conducive to the maintenance of peace and security in the Asia-Pacific region and in the world in general. Let us therefore give the Republic of China on Taiwan the opportunity to share with us their capabilities and experience in a collective effort to realize humankind’s hope for the equitable development of every region of the world. The practice of the unilateral imposition of an economic embargo against one Member State by another Member State should have ceased with the end of the cold-war era. For more than three decades now, Cuba has struggled, against all odds, to survive economically and financially. With patience and determination, Cuba has continued to make great strides towards socio-economic development. Indeed, among the family of nations, it has excelled in some activities of common benefit to humankind, such as genetic engineering and modern medicine. These laudable achievements and progress made by Cuba deserve to be encouraged. The application of the principles of international law and the effort of the international community to propagate peace and security should be all-embracing. In this connection, as regards Libya’s alleged complicity in the downing over Lockerbie, Scotland, of Pan Am flight 103, we support the OAU resolution adopted by the sixty- fourth session of the Council of Ministers in Yaoundé from 1 to 5 July 1996, as a basis for overcoming the present impasse on the issue. Concerning the Jammu and Kashmir dispute, we would like to urge the international community not to relent in its efforts to find a just and peaceful settlement to the dispute in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. The Gambia reaffirms its commitment to the international community’s resolve to combat naked aggression, particularly between States, and international terrorism from whatever quarter. Pursuant to the relevant Security Council and Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) resolutions, we support the efforts of Kuwait to preserve and defend its territorial integrity while seeking a just and speedy redress to the consequences of the Iraqi invasion. Last year we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. The occasion afforded us the opportunity to review the operations and mandate of the Organization. The ongoing exercise of strengthening the United Nations system is complementing this review and the rededication to the ideals of the United Nations. In particular, we should give our full support to the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly and 19 General Assembly 25th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 7 October 1996 the Economic and Social Council, and to the reform of the Security Council — including the question of equitable representation of all geographical regions on this important organ of the United Nations. The proposals for the reform of the Security Council made by the African Group and Italy, among others, should also be given due consideration. The reform of the Security Council should ensure that the hegemonistic interests of a few will not be promoted to the detriment of the majority. The reforms of the United Nations put in sharp focus the present financial crisis of the Organization and the gallant efforts of the Secretary-General to improve its financial situation. The serious consideration the General Assembly has given this matter since 1994, leading to its setting up a High-level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations, once more demonstrates Member States’ commitment to the preservation and continued operations of the Organization. The cumulative effect of the financial reforms, including the huge staff reductions, should, as much as possible, neither compromise the efficiency and productivity of the Organization nor deflect it from its traditional operations and renewed mandate. The Organization’s precarious financial situation is our collective concern, and we should therefore resolutely strive to ensure that it is promptly addressed. This of course requires that all Member States have the clear political will to pay their contributions punctually. Member countries should desist from withholding their contributions for purely political considerations, as this would paralyse the functioning of the United Nations. It is fitting at this juncture to refer to the work of this body in pursuing the objectives of the Agenda for Peace and the Agenda for Development. The search for a common basis for international cooperation on conflict resolution, relief operations and development remains an active agenda of the United Nations. The success of any international cooperation on these issues would require greater focus on the effective implementation of the development priorities of developing countries. The link between peace and development is not only essential but forms part of the United Nations Charter. The two serve as twin pillars of the international community’s effort to achieve universal peace and security based on the promotion of the social and economic development of all peoples. We remain fully committed to their effective realization. The manifold problems of illicit drug trafficking and abuse are becoming increasingly universal. In many respects, both producer and non-producer nations are rapidly falling victim to the pernicious effects of illicit drugs. Today countries that once were drug free are either gradually becoming infested with the sale and use of illicit drugs or are being made transit posts in the illicit trafficking of narcotics and psychotropic substances. For many years now, the United Nations has led a steady, all- embracing fight against the global drug menace, especially through its International Drug Control Programme and Global Programme of Action, and, recently, by making drugs the subject of the 1996 high- level segment of the Economic and Social Council session. The effort of the United Nations in combating the trafficking and sale of illicit drugs cannot succeed unless the international community lends it its full support through improved and effective international cooperation in drug control. The Gambia will continue to participate in any international effort to combat and defuse the global drug menace. At the national level, appropriate organs and control measures have been put in place to discourage the use of the Gambia as a transit post in the illicit global drug trade and to save Gambians from falling victim to its harmful effects. In the area of nuclear disarmament, it is gratifying to note that the General Assembly recently adopted the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. That endorsement by the international community should not, however, overlook the legitimate concerns and reservations expressed by India. The convening of the World Food Summit next month in Rome to address hunger and food security provides the opportunity to renew the international community’s commitment to the eradication of hunger and malnutrition and the attainment of food security for all. The linkage between the problem of food security and poverty cannot be overemphasized. The Gambia, within the framework of the United Nations Development Programme and in observance of the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty (1996), has been participating effectively in the fight against poverty. National programmes have been designed and put in place to achieve poverty eradication. The last decade of the twentieth century has witnessed some landmark activities in international cooperation. The series of United Nations global conferences signifies the international community’s 20 General Assembly 25th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 7 October 1996 preoccupation with the preservation of international peace and security, the promotion and preservation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the propagation of development techniques and the attainment of sustainable development, the provision of adequate shelter for our rapidly growing population and, indeed, the attempt to ensure the social and economic well-being of all peoples all over the world. The Gambia is proud to be associated with this international crusade for a secure and better life for every human being.﻿Allow me at the outset, Sir, to congratulate you on your election as President of the current session of the General Assembly. I salute you in my capacity as Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement, which has found in your background a close identity with the defence of the interests of the developing countries. The same is true of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who honoured us with his attendance at the last Non-Aligned Movement summit, held at Cartagena de Indias. Over the past several years in Colombia, we have been waging a difficult war against drug trafficking. In that battle, judges, police officers, journalists and innocent civilians have lost their lives: more than 20,000 people in the last 10 years. In fact, last week in the southern part of the country more than 50 soldiers of the Colombia army who were destroying illicit crops and cocaine processing laboratories in the jungle region were massacred by guerrillas engaged in the defence of drug trafficking interests. The mother of one of those murdered young men — a 17-year-old soldier — asked me the following day with tears in her eyes: “Why”? Allow me today to try to answer that mother and all those who have been victims of this war, not only in Colombia, but around the world. Values, democracy and national security are threatened. We are waging this war to preserve and protect those values; to protect and preserve our youth and our democratic form of government; but above all to protect our national security. No country in the world must ignore the battle against drugs. This war is occurring today in every country, owing to the broad power of powerful international criminal and terrorist organizations which have extended their tentacles over the entire planet. Now that the cold war has ended, the United Nations and the world must design and develop a strategy to put an immediate end to the greatest threat to the world’s security and stability today: the threat of drugs. It is an epidemic that, more than any other war, can undermine the value structure which supports the governability of democratic systems. As we prepare for the twenty-first century, I invite all world leaders present or represented here today, to a collective and above all sincere reflection on this proposal, which Colombia presents with the moral authority it has been granted, having been the nation which has suffered most, which has invested most, and which has paid the highest social and economic costs in this struggle against drug trafficking. In recent years, Colombia has spent 14 times more resources fighting drug trafficking than what is invested annually by the international community through the United Nations system for the same purpose. Thanks to this determined effort, Colombia has been able to avoid the annual distribution throughout the world of more than 6 billion doses intended for drug users. I, too, have been a victim of drug trafficking. Several years ago I was the target of an assassination attempt that almost cost me my life. I received 11 bullet wounds, and still carry four bullets in my body. More recently I fell victim to another assassination attempt, this time of a moral nature. I was accused of having allowed money from a cartel to infiltrate my campaign. Despite that, from the very first day of my Administration we have worked successfully to arrest the criminals and completely destroy the powerful Cali cartel. I thank God that I survived that assault too. The Congress of the Republic of Colombia, which, under our Constitution is the judge of the President, completely exonerated me of all charges after a long trial that I personally requested be held in public. Barely 48 hours ago, before coming to the Assembly, I was the victim of yet another attempt. Heroin was smuggled onto my aeroplane in order to shame Colombia and its democratic Government. This new attempt proved that the criminal organizations have the power and the capability to penetrate almost every institution in our society, anywhere in the world. However, I stand here today, before this world Assembly of democracy, with complete dignity because nobody will stop me from presenting to the world Colombia’s proposals to deal with the drug organizations. I am speaking to the Assembly today bearing the painful scars of those encounters. Similar scars are borne by all Colombians who have been physically injured by drug terrorism or morally wounded by international misunderstanding. I am not here to complain; I am here to propose a solution to this modern-day epidemic. I am convinced that the world is losing the war against drugs. The solution will have to be as global as the problem itself. It will have to be as swift and irreversible as the damage that drugs and crime are causing to the minds of the young drug users of the world. The achievements of Colombia and other countries do not imply that the problem of drug trafficking has been eradicated throughout the world. The drug problem will be resolved only when all countries, without exception and without hypocrisy, shoulder their own responsibilities, which cannot be delegated to others. To achieve this, we must set out the parameters for a great anti-drug alliance, which include immediate and decisive action. If we do not accomplish this, drug trafficking, the most sinister transnational enterprise in the world, whose resources equal $500 billion per year — more than those of the world-wide petroleum industry — will continue to corrupt and contaminate our peoples. The statistics on international action to date are not very encouraging. Drug use continues to increase under the tolerant attitudes of some Governments, and the level of drug seizures and confiscation barely exceeds 10 per cent of the total of such drugs circulating in the world. In the face of this demoralizing reality we have only two alternatives: mutual recrimination, or cooperation. Either we continue to criticize each other, or we work together. Multilateral focus on the problem is the only alternative; interventionism is not the way. The only end that unilateral or interventionist measures achieve, as we have seen recently, is to break mutual trust, weaken the ability of Governments to take action, and open the way for the consolidation of criminal organizations. Colombia proposes an agenda of global action against drugs, based on the principles of shared responsibility, equality and an integrated approach: shared responsibility, because we are all responsible for the problem of ethical, political, social and economic contamination produced by drug trafficking throughout the world; equality, because no country should assume the right to judge the conduct of another on a subject that involves the responsibility of all on standards of behaviour that are worldwide and collective; and integration, because every phase of the process — from agricultural production, to industrial processing, transport, distribution, consumption, and money laundering — must be addressed simultaneously, and with the same energy. Colombia wants to be part of the solution. We do not want to continue to be demonized by the world when, in fact, we are victims, as all peoples are. The issues for the global agenda against drugs are as follows: first, with regard to the establishment of a social machinery for the eradication of illegal crops, it is not enough to eradicate 2 such crops if we are not capable of offering alternative solutions for small peasant farmers. Colombia endorses the innovative proposal of French President Jacques Chirac to create a mechanism to enable the purchase of produce grown as alternatives for illegal crops at prices that closely approximate those paid for coca, opium poppies and marijuana. The establishment of this mechanism should be accompanied by a commitment to aerial and manual eradication over five years, which would lead to the elimination of these illicit crops throughout the world. Secondly, we need controls on the trafficking of chemical precursors and weapons, which are speeding drug trafficking and the violence that it generates. The United Nations system must define, within the framework of the Vienna Convention, specific guidelines to regulate the pre- shipment certification of chemical precursors to drug-producing countries, and contribute to producing effective systems to control arms sales to those same destinations. As regards a mandate to combat money laundering, only decisive action against the profits generated by the drug business can stop the recycling of these resources into production and distribution centres. Eighty per cent of drug trafficking money circulates through the economic and financial channels of the industrialized nations. We need much stricter controls on the banking system and on industries whose smuggling of goods and services are being used to launder this drug money. We propose that the mandate of the European agreement governing money laundering, investigation, seizure and forfeiture of assets derived from drug trafficking be extended to the global level. Concurrently, we should expand globally those decisions reached at the World Ministerial Conference on Organized Transnational Crime held at Naples in 1994. As regards a worldwide intelligence centre for cooperation in operations against cartels and drug trafficking networks, we believe that in dealing with international crime which starts in one place, continues in another and ends at the point of consumption, the combined action of all countries is required to develop the necessary intelligence and police operations to seize shipments, dismantle networks and pursue domestic drug dealers and distributors. Colombia proposes such an organization of a worldwide intelligence centre against drugs. This centre would coordinate the collection of evidence from every police force in the world to fight the unified multinational drug traffickers with an equally unified response. As regards programmes which effectively curb demand, statistics worryingly show that consumption is growing, not declining, and that it is doing so in the most vulnerable sectors of our society: among young people and ethnic minorities. Unless we curb demand, the task of fighting supply will be ineffective in achieving a definitive solution to the problem. One cannot place the entire burden of drug fighting on drug-producing countries, which are the weakest link. We are speaking of a market that must be controlled from both sides. Starting with an agreement on the goals for the reduction of consumption, we propose the adoption of an integrated plan that includes prevention campaigns, action by non-governmental organizations and public health initiatives accompanied by stricter laws against the distribution and consumption of illegal drugs. Finally, we propose a world treaty of judicial cooperation in the war against drugs and terrorism which must have no frontiers. Recognizing the sovereign right of every nation to apply justice in its own territory for crimes committed within its boundaries, no nation should agree to be used as a refuge or sanctuary for organized crime. Judicial reciprocity and assistance in the exchange of evidence, the criminalization and judicial seizure of assets derived from drug trafficking and terrorism, extradition and the creation of high-security prisons with standards subject to international monitoring must be an integral part of this strategy. Without undermining bilateral or regional agreements, these judicial cooperation agreements would establish the basis for the eventual formation of an international tribunal against organized crime. Signatory countries would submit international criminals such as arms dealers, drug traffickers, money launderers and terrorists to the jurisdiction of this tribunal according to the terms of their participation agreements. Colombia proposes to this Assembly the formation of a group of experts who would be charged with developing a timetable and action plan for this proposed global agenda for the war against drugs. An initial review of the group’s progress could be made at the 1998 special session of the General Assembly which has been proposed by the Government of Mexico. The group of experts should be formed in four months’ time, and Colombia will be pleased to host its first meeting. I call 3 on world leaders to communicate to Colombia their recommendations on how best to organize the work of this group of experts. The globalization of problems in today’s world is taking place much faster than the globalization of solutions. Terrorism, and drugs and arms trafficking do not respect either national boundaries or barriers. Developing countries have fewer opportunities and more limited resources to confront the invasive power of these threats, in the face of which there are neither weak nor strong, only victims. I invoke the memory of those killed by these wars which will also exist in the next century. I invoke our children’s future, threatened by bombs, illegal drugs and guns. I invoke the plain cause of the coexistence of the world in order to commit ourselves to this formidable task of blocking the path of organized crime which today challenges our right to govern the world in peace. Finally, I invoke the tears of all the mothers and youths of the world who have been sacrificed in the fight against drugs or through their use. May God illuminate our path that we may continue this battle.  ﻿I am happy to join other speakers in warmly congratulating His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly. I also wish to express Canada’s deep appreciation of the excellent manner in which Mr. Freitas do Amaral managed the deliberations of the fiftieth session of the Assembly. Forty years ago, in the depths of the cold war, the General Assembly authorized the setting up of a peacekeeping force in Suez. Thus emerged an important tool for the international community, one that has since served the cause of peace in many different forms around the world. (spoke in French) Canadians take special pride in peacekeeping because the concept was developed in part by their Foreign Minister, Lester B. Pearson, who received the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts. As we reflect on the fortieth anniversary of United Nations peacekeeping, there are certain conclusions to be drawn. The United Nations has played a crucial role throughout the world by dint of its peacekeeping role. Innovation is both necessary and possible within the United Nations, and in our time, different as it may be, the spirit of internationalism, of commitment to cooperation, calls to us once again. (spoke in English) In a new and changing global environment internationalism is ever more important for all nations, large or small, weak or powerful. Changing times have set for us a new broad agenda, which includes focusing on the security needs of individuals — in other words, on sustainable human security. Unfortunately, the new times have not sufficiently been reflected by a rededication to the United Nations as an expression of the spirit of internationalism. There remains too often a tendency to act according to old power configurations rather than to seek out collective approaches that address the roots of conflict and attempt to resolve them through common action. 12 The need for recommitment to the United Nations is clear, and so too is the need for the renewal, restructuring and refocusing of the Organization and its various bodies and agencies. In implementing this agenda of United Nations renewal we will no doubt encounter difficulties and differences of opinion. But this should not discourage us. We need the courage to innovate on two fronts, grappling with a new and complex world agenda and restructuring the United Nations to respond effectively to that agenda. The basic mandate of the United Nations at its founding was the prevention of international conflict. As peacekeeping has changed over time, one can see the evolution of a security agenda itself, from being a simple buffer between States to an international responsibility for maintaining order and an involvement in reconstruction. The range of activities in recent times has been impressive, from Haiti to Cambodia, from the Golan Heights to El Salvador, from Bosnia to the peace accords now being signed in Guatemala. That range demonstrates that the international response to threats to security has gone well beyond the initial definition, which was limited to dealing with cross-border aggression. Rather, in a continuum of threats, there is an increasing focus on conflicts that take place within borders but that have severe ripple effects throughout the entire international system. These types of conflict are still, in peacekeeping terms, largely uncharted waters, and of course there are differences of view on how best to respond. What is clear is the need for a new tool kit for the United Nations to respond to a variety of different situations. In this context I am glad to note that most of the recommendations made in the rapid-reaction study submitted by Canada last year are now being implemented. Canada will continue to support United Nations efforts to establish a headquarters that will enhance its ability to respond rapidly and with flexibility. But that is only one tool. Many more are needed, especially in the area of prevention of disputes and in the arduous and complex task of peace-building. The failure of conflict prevention in Rwanda, as outlined in the Rwanda evaluation report, has made abundantly clear the need to enlarge the concept of peace- building to embrace prevention as well as peacemaking and reconstruction. Preventive action will require much greater commitment from United Nations Members to intervene early. In Canada, we are currently focusing our approach to these issues. We have started reworking our own international tool kit to improve our ability to initiate and support peace-building operations in areas such as mediation, dialogue, human-rights monitoring, judicial reform, police training and demobilization of military forces. We look forward to cooperating with other nations that are also exploring similar innovative approaches. The search for new tools and the means to utilize them collectively cannot, however, be a substitute for the reinforcement of existing mechanisms to build peace. We are about to take a historic step forward on the nuclear- disarmament agenda. Today, the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty was opened for signature. That Treaty is the result of decades of hope and effort by people around the world. This morning I signed the Treaty on behalf of Canada. We call upon all States Members of the United Nations to do the same. The children of tomorrow should, we hope, never have to know what a nuclear test is. If we can succeed in this goal, and if we can vigorously pursue the goal of systematically and progressively reducing nuclear weapons, with the ultimate goal of their elimination, we can ensure that those children know less and less about the most terrible scourge to face humanity. If the world can focus its energies on ending the testing of sophisticated and expensive nuclear weapons, we believe that there is real hope for setting ourselves the goal of ending the use of the most simple, cheap and, on a daily basis, most destructive weapon in use today, the anti-personnel landmine. We have all witnessed the suffering, death and horrifying mutilation caused by mines. Canada, along with many other countries and organizations, is engaged in mine-clearance operations. But the simple fact is that anti-personnel mines are being laid far faster then we can pull them out of the ground. This is not just a disarmament issue. It strikes at the very heart of development, and the thousands upon thousands of victims affected every year pose a stark challenge to humanitarian and peacekeeping efforts. Canada will host an international strategy session this autumn, bringing together like-minded Governments, international agencies and non-governmental groups to provide impetus and direction to international efforts towards a global ban on anti-personnel mines. I hope this will help to catalyse efforts to build a consensus on a 13 strong, forward-looking resolution for this fifty-first session. As such, it can provide further impetus to multilateral negotiations on a full global ban. A third milestone in this area is the Chemical Weapons Convention, the first international treaty that aims to introduce a complete, global ban on an entire category of weapons of mass destruction. It is of the greatest importance that it be brought into force as soon as possible. (spoke in French) During the cold war, we re-examined and redefined the dimensions of international security to embrace the concept of sustainable human security. The rule of law and good governance are as important to maintaining global peace as disarmament measures. We are also coming to realize that real security cannot be guaranteed by the State alone, but must involve civil society as well. (spoke in English) These realizations stemmed in part from a growing sense of insecurity at the newly emerging but deadly threats of what one writer has described as “the underside of globalization”, including environmental degradation, crime and terrorism, and a lack of equity between the peoples of the Earth. The recent series of United Nations conferences has served both to define the concept of sustainable human security and to bring home the growing challenges to the security of the individual. The road map is clear; we do not need to study it any further. Now is the time to move forward in a concerted, comprehensive way. There are already notable examples of what the United Nations system has achieved, such as programmes to improve children’s health and strategies to combat such environmental threats as depletion of the ozone layer. But as important as these advances are, there remain far too many paper commitments instead of real progress on the ground. Currently we are swamped by a plethora of agendas, blueprints and plans that run the risk of exhausting the ability of donor nations to respond to or have a real impact on those most in need. Too many bodies are established to implement these plans, creating jurisdictional confusion and an overlap in implementation. We need to recognize that in the realm of sustainable human security, Governments are not alone. The groups and networks that have emerged around the world representing women, indigenous peoples and children, along with business and finance, are now major players, and we need a system of governance that recognizes this and brings them into partnership with Governments themselves. One example of a new system is the Arctic Council, which was inaugurated in Ottawa last week. This multilateral regional body brings together Arctic nations and indigenous groups to cooperate in the sustainable development and environmental protection of a unique and precious part of the globe. The Council represents a new model of international organization, bringing together people and States to share their energy and resources in a common cause. The upcoming World Food Summit organized by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) provides another opportunity to combine governmental and non-governmental efforts. As a major agricultural producer, Canada looks forward to working with other nations and with non-governmental organizations and representatives on solutions to the problem of food security through approaches to technology transfer, financing and land reform. As private trade and investment flows into developing countries increasingly outweigh the significance of official development assistance, issues such as terms of trade and debt take on even greater significance. At the same time, new and complex issues are emerging which existing international structures are not well placed to address. One major emerging issue is the relationship between trade and labour standards. We are pleased to see the International Labour Organization (ILO) focus on core labour standards, including by working towards an international convention on the elimination of forced child labour. There can be no clearer example of an issue where cooperation and dialogue with other international and regional organizations, particularly between the ILO and the World Trade Organization (WTO) and with non- governmental groups is required in order to produce synergy rather than overlap. Sustainable human security means providing for basic needs not just in economic ways, but in political ways as well. Recent conflicts have demonstrated by negative example that respect for human rights and 14 democratic principles is fundamental to the prevention of conflict. Last year, Canada commissioned work on the human rights components of the United Nations field operations. I am pleased to announce today that we will immediately begin compiling a roster of qualified Canadian human rights experts available for rapid deployment as part of larger peace-building operations. We look forward to coordinating our efforts with those of Norway and others to ensure coherent, focused support for such United Nations efforts. In 1998 we will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This will be an occasion not only to reaffirm our commitment to its principles, but also to consider further practical steps to implement them. One step we will take is to promote, as part of the fiftieth anniversary, the preparations led by the High Commissioner for Human Rights, international dialogue on means to combat hate propaganda, which is so often the trigger of human tragedies such as genocide and “ethnic cleansing”. The establishment of international war-crimes Tribunals in The Hague for the former Yugoslavia and for Rwanda represents a critical element of necessary progress in the field of human rights. They signal our determination to hold accountable all individuals guilty of committing atrocities, be they officials of the State or extra- or para- State actors. Above all, they signal our determination to break the cycle of hatred. It is for these reasons that Canada strongly urges the prompt establishment of a permanent international criminal court as a new instrument in the fight against massive human rights violations. There is one aspect of human rights that my Government and I have personally decided to make an utmost priority: the rights of children. Let me take this opportunity to thank the Swedish Government and commend the organizers of last month’s World Congress on the Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children. It is Canada’s fervent hope that this Congress will lead to the implementation of the most effective practical measures, as well as to the adoption and ratification of legally binding international instruments to combat child slavery and the commercial sexual exploitation of children. We should move resolutely to conclude negotiation of the Draft Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. We will work through our own development funds with all countries interested in similar goals. The concept of sustainable democracy requires, beyond a commitment to respect for basic human rights, also a commitment to democratic development. In the last decade we have seen the United Nations involved in the promotion of democracy from Cambodia to South Africa to Haiti. Other multilateral organizations are also playing an important role, such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in the recent elections in Bosnia. Recent conflicts have demonstrated the importance of stable democratic structures in promoting sustainable human security. They have also highlighted the need to distinguish between legitimate aspirations and dangerous tendencies towards fragmentation. Attempts to structure political participation around culturally or ethnically “pure” mini-States must be resisted by the international community. (spoke in French) Haiti has been a critical test for the United Nations. The promotion of democratization has been an integral part of security. Concerted international effort is needed to support democracy, not merely for the sake of one leader or one election, but as part of the ongoing process of laying the foundations of democratic institutions. We must recognize this and must make the commitments needed to ensure that the United Nations can work effectively for peace and stability in Haiti. (spoke in English) Nigeria, Burundi and Burma are among the most recent challenges to our collective ability to support democratic aspirations. Canada remains firmly committed to the restoration of democracy in these countries, and to working in these countries and with our partners, bilaterally, multilaterally and within the Commonwealth and francophonie to this end. The explosion of information technologies presents great dangers but also great opportunities for human security. Extremist groups can spread their message of hate and intolerance more easily, and we have only to look to Bosnia and Rwanda to see the tragic effects this can have. Yet at the same time, these technologies have placed powerful tools for the strengthening of civil society in the hands of millions of individual citizens and groups. 15 The development of information technologies raises many other questions, including issues of access and of countering abuses such as the transmission of child pornography or terrorism. The Economic and Social Council has mandated a study of these issues. In Canada we believe we have solid knowledge and expertise in these area in terms of technology and jurisprudence and we will make major contributions to finding solutions. I have outlined some of the major issues that require conceptual innovation on the part of the United Nations. The counterpart to conceptual innovation is innovation in renewing existing United Nations structures and developing new ones. We should not hesitate to eliminate those programmes or bodies that no longer serve any useful purpose, to reorient those whose mission so requires, and to consolidate and eliminate duplication. Nor should we hesitate to create new instruments, within existing resources, to deal with the challenge of the day. Reform is more than just cost-cutting, though that aspect must not be ignored. Our first priority is the ongoing financial crisis the United Nations faces. We have seen some encouraging progress in the establishment and early results of the Efficiency Board. Perhaps more importantly, there is a growing awareness of the need for financial and administrative restructuring. But much remains to be done. I cannot simply content myself here with calling yet again for all Members to pay their dues unconditionally — in full and on time. I have to ask why it is that over half the Member States are failing to meet this standard, and some are failing to pay at all. Pressures on government budgets is no excuse; Canada has in recent years undertaken some of the most severe expenditure cuts of any developed country. Yet we have maintained our commitment to pay our dues in full and on time, because we believe that the United Nations responds to key international priorities. Perhaps some Members are withholding dues as a form of blackmail, hoping to pressure the United Nations into reforms through fiscal starvation. This is both wrong- headed and short-sighted. An organization in crisis will not have the energy required to tackle genuine reform. What is needed here is political will, both in paying dues and in moving forward in the difficult task of reviewing the scale of assessments to better reflect the ability to pay. Canada hopes that others will join us in demonstrating that will during the current session of the Assembly. Another priority is to strengthen the effectiveness of the Security Council by giving it greater accountability, representativeness, transparency and responsibility. Canada attaches particular importance to the need to ensure meaningful participation in decision-making by those Members whose nationals — military or civilian — are in the crossfire of the conflicts that the Council is debating. The Council needs to address two issues: its role and its composition. On the former, if the Council is to come to terms with the more complex nature of international peace and security, it must be prepared to assume a greater role in conflict prevention. This will require cooperation among the Security Council, the Secretary- General and other Governments and non-governmental actors in identifying and addressing emergency crises. On the latter issue, the Council can address criticisms of it as a closed body whose membership does not fully reflect changes in the world since 1945 by increasing the number of seats. The distribution of those seats should take into account in the first instance the contribution of Members to the broader purposes of the United Nations Charter, and also the need for equitable geographic representation. Membership has its privileges, but more importantly, it must bring with it a special responsibility and commitment to the principles of the United Nations Charter and to sustainable human security. (spoke in French) Equally important is the revitalization of the General Assembly. The United Nations General Assembly is the one body that brings together all nations of the world in their full diversity. It represents on a global scale both the essence and the challenge of democracy. The General Assembly must achieve consensus and take decisions on the new human security agenda. It must promote sustainable human security, a concept that combines the need to husband natural resources, to generate growth and to ensure peace and security. (spoke in English) I have outlined today some of the steps that Canada has taken to advance thinking, to improve existing practices and to develop new ones. And I know that other Member States have been working towards the very same end. We now have many options to consider and discuss. 16 But plans, proposals and studies are not enough. As the poet Yeats said, “In dreams begins responsibility.” It is easy to dream; it is much harder to act. We have a renewed vision of multilateralism, and a renewed mandate not just for the prevention of conflict, but for the nurturing of peace. We have started work on making that vision a reality. We all recognize how daunting this task is as we embark upon it; but we must persist, for the task is as vital as it is difficult. We in 1996 must show ourselves capable of restoring the spirit of 1956 when, in the deepest freeze of the cold- war climate, the United Nations gave birth to peacekeeping and changed international relations forever. We need to find within ourselves the ability and the will to innovate and the persistence to implement our innovations. It is in the interest of each one of us, as much as it is in the interests of all of us, to do so.  ﻿At the outset, allow me, Sir, to say how gratified we are to see you presiding over this Assembly. Your election to that high office is a well- deserved recognition of your personal qualities and experience, and also of Malaysia’s important role in this Organization and in the international arena. I have no doubt that you will lead the work of this Assembly to a fruitful conclusion. It is also my privilege to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for the exemplary manner in which he discharged his onerous responsibilities. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his untiring efforts in the cause of peace and development. While we realize the difficulties and the complexity of the challenges that lie ahead in the years to come, we remain confident in his wisdom and competence in steering this universal Organization towards the fulfilment of its responsibilities in accordance with the principles of the Charter. My delegation sincerely wishes him every success in his endeavours. Last year, we proudly celebrated 50 years of achievements. As we slowly begin the countdown to the centenary celebration of the United Nations, on behalf of the generations to come, we see ourselves coincidentally on the threshold of a new century as well. My delegation feels that this is a unique opportunity for all of us to rededicate ourselves to the purposes and principles of the Charter with greater determination and commitment to strengthening the United Nations so that the menacing trends in human relations which caused so much misery and destruction in the past can be halted and reversed, and that existing inequalities among nations and peoples can be eliminated, creating a new atmosphere of tolerance and mutual respect, and a new sense of shared responsibility for development and progress. 6 Over the past 50 years, the Organization has grown fourfold and has become the most representative — certainly the only universal — institution serving the purpose of maintaining international peace and security. This truly global Organization has an immense capability to mobilize international efforts to deal with global problems relating to economic, social and environmental issues. It also possesses the potency to promote universal standards of human rights despite differences in the historical, cultural and religious backgrounds of nations and communities. Admittedly, the Organization has experienced rough times and has suffered several setbacks during the course of its existence. However, with the demise of the cold war that haunted the Organization for nearly four decades, a more favourable environment has emerged, enabling us to respond collectively to the challenges of the future. My country is among the smallest and the least developed countries of this Organization. For us, the United Nations is extremely important in safeguarding our sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. For us, it is the protector of freedom and justice, particularly for the weak and the vulnerable. It is also the beacon of hope for hundreds of millions of people in the developing world for a better future free from hunger and disease. Therefore, we feel the need to steadily strengthen, revitalize and reform the Organization in order to make it more effective, more democratic, and ready to react and respond without bias to situations that threaten international peace and security. It was with this in mind that we joined in the initiative, way back in 1979, to include on the agenda an item on the question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council. My delegation welcomes the reform and adjustment process that is now under way and sincerely hopes that the process will not compromise the principles of the Charter, which emphasize multilateralism, mutual respect and shared interests, including the interests of small States. In this context, my delegation feels that the proposal made by Italy in the Working Group on the reform and restructuring of the Security Council deserves our attention and careful consideration. There is no doubt that the more representative the United Nations is, the more democratic it will be; and that the more accountable the United Nations is, the more effective it will be, thus benefitting us all, small or large, weak or powerful, rich or poor. Reforming the Organization alone will not serve the desired purposes unless the commitment of Member States to uphold and abide by the principles of the Charter and their obligations is fulfilled. We are concerned that the Organization is undergoing the worst financial crisis in its history. We are reminded that the main cause of the financial predicament is the failure of Member States to meet their financial obligations on time and in full. While my delegation has every sympathy towards those countries which have genuine difficulties, we note that by far the greater number of cases in arrears are those which have the capability to pay. We note with disappointment that the richest Member of this Organization is among those who fail or refuse to pay their dues. It is ironic that the effects of this severe financial crisis have to be borne most adversely by the smaller and the poorer States of the Organization, which in many cases are obligated under the current scale of assessments to pay more than their fair share. In spite of its limited resources and the frequent economic difficulties it faces, I am pleased to say that my country continues to pay its share of contribution in full, as we are convinced that only resources and efforts can produce results. Meanwhile my delegation believes that the efforts of the international community to reform the administrative and budgetary functioning of the United Nations should aim at utilizing the scarce resources of the Organization more efficiently. In this regard, the efforts of the Secretary-General to achieve a more lean and effective Secretariat geared to take on the challenging tasks entrusted to it warrant recognition. We also welcome the recent measures towards eliminating redundancy, duplication and waste, for only a sound organization can ensure the success of its mission. The world has never offered a greater opportunity than today to address critical developmental problems and challenges. The international community has emphasized the importance of a revitalized and enhanced system of international cooperation for development. The sheer number of major international conferences held during the past few years and the collective resolve documented offer adequate testimony to this strong desire. The outcome of these conferences fostered a common concept of sustainable economic development for the betterment of mankind as a whole. However, despite all these positive developments on the international economic and social scene, my delegation is convinced that unless these ambitious programmes are backed by the necessary resources and political will, no change can be achieved. 7 We also feel that all activities of international economic and development cooperation, including those undertaken by the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization, must be coordinated and closely linked with the development strategies and programmes of the United Nations system. After all, this Organization remains the most representative institution. While the globalization and liberalization of the world economy gave some developing countries the opportunity to assume a more prominent status in the world economy, the least-developed countries — a category to which my country unfortunately belongs — continued to be marginalized. The standard of living in least-developed countries has in effect declined over the years, and the poverty level has intensified in many of these countries due to indolent economic growth, which in turn was subject to outside factors. The overall decline in official development assistance over the years has further aggravated the conditions of the least-developed countries at a time when aid is most needed. This unfavourable situation, if allowed to drag on, could be calamitous for countries, such as the Maldives, with severe resource constraints and fragile infrastructures. For this reason, my delegation can only appeal for priority action on various international development commitments, such as the Paris Declaration and Programme of Action for Least Developed Countries for the 1990s. These have been endorsed at various recent global conferences. Admittedly, liberalization of trade has resulted in greater trade. However, liberalization has also meant the loss of the only advantage that the least-developed countries had — their privileged status — and the consequent loss of their markets. Liberalization has therefore, in effect, contributed to the marginalization of many developing countries. The inherent obstacles facing small States, particularly small island States, and their vulnerability, deserve special attention. Small island States like my own require favoured treatment to prevent them from slipping back from their well-earned achievements. In this context, I also wish to express the need for an incisive examination of the criteria for least-developed- country status and related issues, including the graduation process, in order to do justice to the poorest among the poor countries when the criteria come up for review next year. The per capita index used to classify countries for assistance purposes is no longer adequate, particularly in the case of small States. It fails to capture the special problems faced by these countries and their vulnerability to external shocks. In this context, the development and use of a vulnerability index, along with other criteria, may be feasible in order to minimize these inadequacies. On the other hand, many of the poorest countries are still entangled in a web of external debt from which they are unlikely ever to be able to free themselves. My delegation believes that more steps should be taken to lift the debt burden from the poorest and most indebted countries by increasing the debt relief measures of bilateral creditors and by greater involvement of multilateral agencies in this responsibility. The developed countries can also help in eliminating the situation by demolishing the barriers they still maintain against imports from the less developed countries, in particular those which are suffering from the burdens of external debt. Poverty cannot be eliminated through charity, but only through cooperation. In this context, we welcome the proposal of the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to cut the number of people living in absolute poverty by half in the next two decades. We are fully committed to the efforts of the international community to safeguard the global environment, especially by building the capacity of the United Nations to promote sustainable development for all. We welcome the work carried out by the Commission on Sustainable Development in this regard, and are looking forward to the forthcoming United Nations Conference on Environment and Development review conference in 1997. My delegation is confident that this review process will give the international community the opportunity to rededicate itself once again to the preservation of the global environment. Only concerted efforts on all fronts can produce encouraging results in this daunting challenge. For the Maldives, the environment is an important issue. We are conscious of the fragility of our islands and we hope to be able to protect them from the potential dangers arising from global warming and sea-level rise. We are also determined to keep our country environment-friendly, clean and unpolluted. Though the land area we have is so limited, I am happy to mention that in the Maldives we initiated a programme in January this year for planting one million trees in three years; I presume that if all countries represented here would initiate similar programmes at a rate of four trees per capita, the world would be greener and cleaner in 10 years. 8 The importance of disarmament for the preservation and maintenance of world peace and security cannot be overemphasized. We believe that, with the treaties and bilateral agreements concluded, and the ongoing negotiations among the nuclear-weapon States, and also with the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons last year, the international community is now reaffirming its commitment to global disarmament and renewing the hopes for the eventual elimination of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. My delegation is pleased about the positive approaches taken by the nuclear-weapon States towards the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, despite the lack of consensus. We are particularly happy that the Treaty has now been opened for signature. We also would like to praise the role played by the United Nations in demining and mine clearance, and to congratulate those involved in this dangerous activity for their bravery and dedication. Anti-personnel landmines have caused enormous human suffering and continue to maim and incapacitate countless innocent men, women and children. We look forward to a worldwide ban on this horrible and inhuman instrument of killing. My delegation is firmly committed to the concept of the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones and zones of peace and would like to take this opportunity to call upon all regions, especially the countries in the region of South Asia, to which we belong, to make every effort to bring about the proposed nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia without any further delay. Internal strife generated and fanned by ethnic, religious and other factors is a recent trend, which is causing large conflagrations in some parts of the world. While our Organization gropes for effective mechanisms to respond to such exigencies, we should not ignore the serious threats posed by drug traffickers, terrorists and mercenaries, particularly to small States. Terrorist incidents have increased alarmingly over the last few years. My delegation is fully convinced that the international community should intensify its efforts to combat terrorism. The early entry into force of the Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries will be a step forward in addressing these threats. We urge all States which have not yet done so to ratify the Convention as early as possible. Similarly, my delegation would like to call for the strongest possible international action against drug traffickers, who are not only poisoning the fabric of human life but also draining the potential for productivity and prosperity of nations by exploiting the vulnerable elements in our societies. Though deeply concerned over the recent violence in Palestine and in the occupied lands, which resulted in the death or injury of hundreds of men, women and children, my delegation is happy to observe that despite the numerous difficulties that exist, the Middle East peace process is continuing to move forward. We fervently hope that the agreements reached so far will be implemented fully and without further delay. The important and critical role played by the proponents of the peace process, especially the United States, deserves the appreciation and praise of the international community and should not be forgotten. My delegation is convinced that their positive role will continue to be instrumental to the success of the peace process. At the same time, we also feel that the United Nations should continue to play its important role in providing means to the Palestinian people in their just struggle for the restoration of their inalienable rights, including the right to self-determination and to the establishment of a sovereign State which could coexist with its neighbours in peace and harmony. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is encouraging, but we need to remain alert. The Dayton Agreement has finally paved the way to creating a lasting peace in Bosnia. The fulfilment of the commitments of the international community is, however, critical to the achievement and consolidation of full peace. We also believe that it is important and necessary to bring those responsible for the atrocities and the crimes of genocide to justice and to punish them. My delegation remains convinced that the United Nations is the most viable and dependable universal institution today. It is the responsibility of all of us to allow this universal Organization to play a more central and active role in shaping and harnessing international cooperation for economic growth and development. It is also our conviction that the dedication and collective endeavours of the international community, which have enabled the United Nations to survive the past 50 years, will inspire us all to greater heights of unity and cooperation so as to preserve and maintain the principles of the Charter, promote its objectives, and strengthen the Organization, thereby enabling it to better serve and enhance the well-being of the peoples of the world. 9 ﻿The Government of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas warmly congratulates Ambassador Razali on his election to the presidency of this fifty-first session of the General Assembly. His skills as a distinguished diplomat are well known and, coupled with the cooperation of Member States, will create the requisite conditions for a successful Assembly. I wish to assure him of the full support of my delegation as he presides over the deliberations of this body. I wish also to express my delegation’s appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, who effectively guided the work of a most historic and memorable fiftieth session. We wish also to thank the Secretary-General for his leadership of the Organization over the past year. The Bahamas is indeed honoured to have been elected to serve as a Vice-President of the General Assembly at the fifty-first session. I wish to thank all Member States for their support in our realization of this achievement. Our deliberations during the last session provided an opportune environment for stocktaking and evaluation, as well as the opportunity to look ahead and consider how we ought to proceed for the next 50 years. The solemn Declaration which we adopted at the end of the Special Commemorative Meeting, highlighted the international community’s continued commitment to the United Nations and to the purposes and principles of the Charter by which it is governed. The Bahamas is convinced that the United Nations remains the primary world body with the capacity and political will to bring together the disparate elements of the international community, so as to face and deal with the challenges of the twenty-first century. The Bahamas, like other countries, would wish to see a strong and effective United Nations. It is our view that the three-tiered reform process currently under way in the political, economic and social and administrative areas represents an important step in that direction. We must remain diligent and focused in our work so as to transform the United Nations into a structure equipped for the fulfilment and support of the myriad demands of Member States. In the area of political reform, the Bahamas continues to support the enlargement of the Security Council to enable it to become more effective, representative, democratic and transparent. We are disappointed that after another year of discussion little or no progress has been made. We urge all Member States to exercise flexibility so as to expedite agreement on this important matter. 1 We acknowledge the need to strengthen the United Nations system in the economic and social fields. Action must be taken to reduce duplication and to improve coordination among the various agencies, including the Bretton Woods institutions. There is a clear need for reform and greater efficiency in the administrative and financial areas. The discussions in the respective high-level Working Groups established to examine these areas have been useful. However, few, if any, meaningful decisions have been taken to date. We urge Member States to increase the momentum, so as to put in place the requisite measures to strengthen the efficacy of the Organization. At the same time, the Bahamas urges and appeals to Member States to make a more determined effort to meet their financial obligations to the Organization. We are aware that the assessment system needs reform. Thus, we should take the opportunity provided by this session to agree on an equitable scale of assessment for the next triennium. The scale of assessment, when finalized, should take into account all relevant circumstances, including the special circumstances of archipelagic island developing countries and the need for the development of a vulnerability index. The Bahamas also wishes once again to urge the international community not to use high per capita gross national product (GNP) as the sole measurement of capacity to pay when it considers the question of criteria for the scale. The Bahamas, as well as a number of other countries, has repeatedly argued that high per capita GNP is not an accurate measurement of a country’s wealth. Indeed, it presents a skewed and distorted picture of the economic reality in my own country when one takes into consideration the duplication of infrastructure and social services. In our efforts to reform this Organization, we must guard against engaging in reform for reform’s sake. The restoration of the dignity of the individual must remain our primary focus. The extent to which we neglect this highest of priorities is the extent to which human rights abuses and inequities will abound, giving rise to tensions and conflicts on various levels, like those that have been witnessed by the international community in recent years with the escalation of civil wars and ethnic strife in many parts of the world. A total breakdown in society is the ultimate consequence of such activities, which completely overwhelm national resources and consume inordinate amounts of international energy which could be far more meaningfully expended. To achieve meaningful reform we will have to change our focus significantly. It will require a shift in paradigms, where issues previously neglected will have to be brought to the fore. We need to be reminded that economic and social security directly influence political security. They must therefore be addressed in an integrated manner. We must guard against the additional threat of economic might being translated into military power, which not only sidelines and marginalizes the disadvantaged and dispossessed but also threatens our peace and security. Our efforts must be aimed at raising the standard of living and quality of life of the world’s most underprivileged. Despite impressive economic growth in many countries, human development continues to move at a snail’s pace, particularly in developing countries. We must find a way to balance economic growth and human development so as to ensure the sustainability and livelihood of future generations. We are merely proposing for the international community what is already in place in the Bahamas. The promotion and protection of human rights, the advancement of women, social justice, equality and development continue to receive priority attention from the Government of the Bahamas. We are fully committed to securing a social environment in which our citizens can live in harmony, prosperity and security, without fear or intimidation. Many of the recommendations contained in the plans and programmes of action of the recent world conferences have already been implemented in the Bahamas, and we will continue to put in place the necessary infrastructure to facilitate the implementation of those recommendations which have not yet been put into practice. Our past actions have brought us to a day of reckoning. The wealth of oceans once deemed inexhaustible has proven finite. Global warming is no longer a prognostication, but a present condition. What is at stake here is the future of our planet and the lives of its inhabitants. The Bahamas urges that the special session for the review of Agenda 21 in 1997 be viewed as an opportunity to re-examine our strategy and to correct past mistakes. The Bahamas hopes that the special session will focus on practical proposals and not try to renegotiate Agenda 21. Definitive priorities and a recommitment to sustainable development should be set out, taking account of the recognized peculiar problems of small developing States and the international community’s commitment to provide resources to such States. The Bahamas is concerned that protection be provided to the fragile and vulnerable economies of small States in a global community which is moving towards 13 the strengthening and development of trading blocs. The new international trade regime has put small States at a disadvantage with the expectation that they liberalize their markets and open their borders in conformity with the obligations and commitments of the World Trade Organization. The playing field must be levelled so that due regard can be given to the fragile domestic economies of these States and their macroeconomic position. If the developed countries are demanding protection for their sensitive domestic industries, then similar demands by developing countries with respect to their domestic industry should not be viewed as a request that is unreasonable or inconsistent with current international trends. A review of current events reveals new threats to the fragile peace process in the Middle East. The Bahamas urges the parties concerned to make every possible effort to restore order, to refrain from acts of violence and to reactivate the peace process, which enjoyed the widespread support of the international community. We commend President Clinton for his initiative in inviting Middle East leaders to Washington for discussion aimed at defusing this volatile situation and thus, hopefully, restoring confidence in the peace process. Ongoing conflicts in Africa are of grave concern. The international community should see it as its duty to support measures for the prevention and resolution of conflict in the countries concerned and to address the economic and debt burdens that have crippled Africa. Although the African countries themselves have made strenuous efforts towards readjustment and recovery, they continue to require the assistance of the international community. The Bahamas welcomes the approval by the Group of Seven of a debt-relief plan for the world’s poorest nations. The debt-relief measure, which will release as many as 20 of the poorest countries from up to $7.7 billion in debt, will go a long way towards providing the needed relief for those countries in their economic growth and development. The Bahamas is pleased to note that after four years of devastating warfare free elections have taken place in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We note the appointment of a Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the question of Cyprus, and we urge the parties concerned to continue to seek a just and viable solution to that conflict. Violence perpetrated against the people of Cyprus cannot be condoned. Notwithstanding the considerable and praiseworthy efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of American States, Haiti still remains unstable to a degree that threatens the stability of the entire region, with a continuing outflow of immigrants seeking a better way of life in other countries. The majority of such immigrants retreat to the Bahamas. It is regrettable that, notwithstanding the assistance of the international community, many areas of great concern remain to be effectively tackled in Haiti. Attempts to restore democracy are constantly hindered by the absence of the conditions necessary to support them. We are therefore left with a population surrounded by much activity, but one whose daily existence remains meagre at best. The consequences are predictable, namely, unrest and increased violence. It is therefore not sufficient to continue business as usual. The peculiar nature of the situation in Haiti requires specific, focused and targeted action that addresses causes and not effects, one in which initiatives provide direct benefits to the Haitian people. The Bahamas views with much regret the continued escalation of the nefarious drug trade, particularly in the Latin American and Caribbean region. We must double our efforts to fight this terrible scourge, and it is our hope that the special session in 1998 will result in a renewed commitment to fight and eradicate this illicit activity. We are also of the view that efforts must be renewed to address the problem of the traffic in small arms, which has increased to alarming proportions in recent times. We are particularly concerned about the large number of small arms that are smuggled into the Caribbean countries. We urge the countries that manufacture and sell arms to impose stricter arms control measures and provide assistance to vulnerable States to reduce this threat and increase the latters’ capability to combat such illegal activity. At the same time, the international community must voice unanimous disapproval and condemnation of the unrelenting increase in crime and the rise of terrorism that is currently confronting the international community. The Bahamas regrets the failure to reach international consensus on dealing swiftly with those grave areas of concern. We urge that every effort be made to implement the relevant agreements already in force and to put in place any additional measures required to deal with these reprehensible activities. The proliferation of arms, both conventional and those designed for mass destruction, poses a serious threat to humanity. Thus, the Bahamas welcomed the recent 14 adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and intends to add its name shortly to the growing list of signatories. Anti-personnel land-mines present an insidious challenge to development and human dignity, and we should move towards a complete ban on such treacherous tools of murder. The Bahamas denounces the continued trans-shipment of nuclear material and hazardous waste through the ecosensitive Caribbean Sea. In this respect, the entire Caribbean Community is in agreement. Indeed in 1992, the Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community declared that the Caribbean Sea should be a nuclear-free- zone for purposes of shipment, storing or dumping of any radioactive or hazardous substances or toxic waste. The Bahamas is encouraged by the steps taken by the second regular session of the International Seabed Authority at its meeting at Kingston last August, which are geared towards ensuring the effective functioning of the Authority. Among the issues before the General Assembly this session is the matter of the international criminal court. We exhort the General Assembly to continue its work on this item so as to enable the convening of a conference of plenipotentiaries in 1998 to adopt the statute of the court, thus fulfilling a lacuna in the existing international legal order. As members are aware, the Bahamas is an archipelagic nation which, by any measure, is a small State with a population of less than 300,000. However, we are a proud people and strong in our belief in justice for all and in the inalienable rights of all people, as enshrined in the Charter of this noble Organization. It is in this spirit of justice and fair play that over the past two years we have repeatedly recorded our support in the General Assembly for the efforts of the 21 million inhabitants of the Republic of China on Taiwan as they entreat the Organization to examine the merits of establishing a committee to analyse in depth the implications, both now and for the future, of continuing to preclude those 21 million souls from formal representation in the General Assembly by way of membership in the United Nations. The Bahamas again calls on the nations of the world, as Members of this august and united international body of nations, to hear the plea of those 21 million souls on the island of Taiwan and to consider what is just and right for them as they too seek to avail themselves of the benefits of membership in the United Nations. The next 50 years will be painful and exacting as we attempt to ensure that the pitfalls of the past are avoided. Many changes will be required. In effecting change, we must ensure that it is profitable, for while change is inevitable, progress is not. The tendency to hold onto the old way of doing business in the midst of necessary change will remain our greatest challenge. As we seek to balance our efforts, it must be remembered that transformation in one area does not necessarily relegate all others to irrelevance. Many reasons have been proffered for the present state of affairs. Not surprisingly, none of them seem to involve the proponents. While everyone talks about the future, few are willing to make the necessary sacrifices to secure it. Rhetoric boils with urgency, but talks move slowly, and action is even more halting. The uncharted waters ahead remain daunting, defined by bilious seas of unrelenting, sophisticated, transnational criminal activity, which is tearing at the very fabric of society. Environmental degradation has exposed the Earth to permanent damage. Navigation of these seas requires us to rise above platitudes and empty promises. We must repudiate the adversaries of peace. Our evaluations during the past session confirmed the continuing validity of the United Nations as the principal mechanism for addressing world concerns. Despite its uneven accomplishments, the United Nations facilitates collaboration for the resolution of societal ills, whatever their origin. The structure and machinery of the United Nations must be such that we are encouraged to continue to use the relatively calm chambers of this forum for our deliberations. This is the only safeguard we have against countries’ being tempted to take their disputes out to sea. ﻿On behalf of my delegation, and on my own behalf, I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. I am convinced that your qualities of a gifted diplomat devoted to the cause of peace and understanding among peoples will ensure a successful outcome of our deliberations. I pledge my delegation’s full support as you discharge your noble responsibilities. I would like to seize this opportunity to commend the brilliant manner in which your predecessor, Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, presided over the proceedings of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. Let me also pay a well-deserved tribute to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his continued contribution and personal commitment to the ideals of international peace and security. We celebrate today the fourth anniversary of the establishment of a peaceful Mozambique after a long period of uncertainty in our history. It has been a period of great challenges and sacrifices, but also of great excitement for all Mozambicans. With peace, we are gradually healing the wounds caused by the war and our young multi-party democracy is flourishing and consolidating its roots. The Assembly of the Republic, our Parliament, has been meeting regularly, symbolizing our collective desire to work together for the consolidation of peace, national reconstruction and democracy. Similarly, efforts are being made to implement the Government’s five-year programme, in which the reduction of absolute poverty, with emphasis on education, health, rural development and job creation, continues to be our major objective. At the same time, preparations are being made with a view to beginning next year the holding of municipal elections, thus complementing the process initiated in 1994 with the holding of the first multi-party general and presidential elections. In view of financial and other constraints, the Government anticipates that municipal elections will take place on a gradual basis. However, the final decision will be made by the Assembly of the Republic itself, following the completion of the ongoing debate on the subject. What is important in our view is that elections take place, for they represent an opportunity for the people to choose their local representatives, identify and solve local problems and define their own needs and priorities. The Government is also addressing, as a matter of urgency, the establishment and strengthening of all the different tribunals envisaged in the Constitution, with a view to enabling the normal functioning of the judiciary system as an important step forward in the efforts to strengthen the rule of law, democracy and respect for individual rights and freedoms. Furthermore, we continue to be fully committed to ensuring public safety and security. To this end, my Government has recently submitted to donor countries a project proposal in order to begin the process of upgrading the technical capacity of the police, thus enabling that institution to deal more effectively with crime prevention, control and other challenges. These include continuing the search for and destruction of arms throughout the country and dealing with transnational crimes, particularly drug trafficking and money laundering. Furthermore, demining continues to be one of my Government’s top priorities. For us, demining is not an end per se. Rather, it is a process which we regard as an integral part of the overall national development process. Where possible, it has been our policy to stimulate the launching of agricultural production and related activities once demining is completed. However, given the magnitude of the land-mine issue in Mozambique, resulting from many years of conflict, additional resources are needed effectively to address this problem in the years ahead, in particular within the framework of strengthening the national capacity for demining. From this rostrum, I would like to express my gratitude to all those countries and organizations which have contributed to the demining programme in Mozambique. We look forward to continuing work 9 together with a view to eliminating these horrible weapons not only in Mozambique, but also in all countries affected by this evil. Accordingly, and in line with my last year’s statement before this Assembly, my Government reiterate sits full support to the call for an international agreement against the production, stockpiling and use of anti-personal land-mines. Recently, my Government and the Office of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) concluded the repatriation and resettlement of Mozambican citizens who had sought refuge in neighbouring countries during the armed conflict. This programme, initiated as a result of a memorandum of understanding signed in March 1993 with UNHCR and subsequent agreements, has been regarded as one of the biggest and most successful repatriation programmes ever undertaken by UNHCR. Thanks to this programme, around 1.7 million Mozambicans have safely and voluntarily returned to their places of origin. We are now proud to say that there are no more Mozambicans living abroad as refugees. However, the challenges before us are immense. We are aware of the difficulties facing this segment of our population and the long road still ahead before we can declare them economically safe and ready to live on their own. This is where the assistance of the international community is most needed and appreciated. With the end of the repatriation process and the resettlement of these populations, there has been significant progress in agricultural production. As a matter of fact, recorded agricultural output in certain areas of Mozambique this year is the highest since independence. The main problem we face now is that of the financial capacity to buy and store adequately the surplus of this production. We need support to build warehouses within the framework of the food security programme. Like many other developing countries, Mozambique has been undergoing a structural adjustment programme since 1987. The core objectives of the programme were, inter alia, to create and adjust the country’s macroeconomic policy, ensure a correct legal and regulatory framework for the development of a strong market economy, provide a transparent and accountable policy framework aimed at promoting investment, allocate adequate budgetary resources for social programmes, create the necessary conditions for the establishment and consolidation of democratic institutions and support good governance and political stability. After almost 10 years of implementation of this programme under the most adverse conditions, some progress has been achieved. Nevertheless, the overall objectives, including specifically the upgrading of the living standards of the population, are still far from being achieved. In some cases living standards of working people have, in fact, deteriorated in recent years, which may erode the political support needed for the continuation of the reforms. As of next year, Mozambique will have to start meeting its debt-servicing obligations to multilateral institutions, as this category of debt has not been eligible for rescheduling so far. The debt burden, coupled with very restrictive monetary policies and related measures pursued in connection with the structural adjustment programme, will certainly have a serious negative impact on the performance of the national economy. Unless measures are taken to address this situation, it will be very difficult for the country to sustain the envisaged political, economic and social targets required to uplift the living standards of the people. The situation of my country’s indebtedness is a critical one, indeed, as it has increased by about six per cent during the last two years. In 1994, debt servicing alone absorbed about 93 per cent of the country’s total export earnings and represented about 28.6 per cent of gross domestic product. This scenario is likely to remain, under the prevailing circumstances, for the next few years. Therefore, my Government supports the view that a comprehensive effort should be made to effectively address the external indebtedness of developing countries, in particular the least developed countries undertaking painful structural adjustment programmes and whose growth prospects continue to be severely undermined by this burden. In order to address official bilateral debt problems, the Naples Terms, adopted by the Paris Club, in favour of the poorest and most indebted countries should be expeditiously implemented. At the same time, we believe non-Paris Club creditors which have not done so should also consider taking appropriate relief measures to alleviate the suffering of debtor nations. Measures announced at the recently held Lyon Summit could not have been more timely. We look forward to welcoming their early implementation. As I speak on this subject, I would like to launch an emphatic appeal for a closer partnership between debtors 10 and creditors. We have recently been pleased to note that, at the political level, there appears to be a growing understanding of developing countries’ concerns over the issue of the external debt crisis. We would therefore be deeply appreciative if this understanding were translated into tangible results and if the subsequent technical discussions held following political consultations were much more fruitful. Regrettably, this has not always been the case. A comprehensive approach to assist least developed countries through a flexible implementation of existing instruments and through finding new mechanisms, is necessary. These include improvements in capital and investment flows and an increase in real terms of the official development assistance to least developed countries, particularly in Africa. To this end, we call upon donor countries, international financial institutions and United Nations organs and specialized agencies to effectively participate in the implementation of the Programme of Action for the least developed countries for the 1990s, the mid-term review of which was held in September last year. Similarly, my delegation welcomes the recently launched United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa, for it brings a new impetus to the international community’s awareness of the necessity to bring about a meaningful solution to African problems. Additional efforts should be made to prevent repetition of past experiences during the implementation of similar important initiatives, by ensuring a successful implementation of this one. The recent mid-term review of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa has highlighted the positive changes made in the right direction during the last few years on the African continent. These trends should be supported and encouraged by the international community. In this regard, my Government hopes that the report being prepared by a group of experts led by Ms. Graça Machel, in conformity with the General Assembly resolution 48/157 of 20 December 1993, will contribute significantly to drawing the international community’s attention on the fate of children victimized by armed conflicts in the world, particularly, in Africa. The current session of the General Assembly offers a unique opportunity for a collective review of the issue of conflict resolution in many parts of the world. With respect to Angola, the recent summit of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) organ on politics, defence and security has expressed concern over the slow progress and apparent stalemate in the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol. The summit expressed, inter alia, deep regret over the absence of the União Nacional para a Independência Total de Angola (UNITA) from the meeting and made a strong appeal to UNITA to fulfil its commitment within the deadline established by the Lusaka Protocol and those of Security Council resolution 864 (1993). Mozambique, along with other SADC countries, is making its contribution to the smooth progress of this delicate process. The settlement of the conflict in Angola will contribute decisively to the materialization of strategic goals set forth by SADC and allow our region to embark on the process of regional integration and to dedicate our efforts to the well-being of our peoples. Within the recently created Lusophone Community, or Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, we are also working hard to encourage the peace process in Angola. In doing so, we aim to consolidate the historic and cultural ties which unite the seven countries that have Portuguese as their official language, thus creating the necessary conditions for a more fruitful cooperation among them. We are encouraged by the recent progress in Sierra Leone and Rwanda and look forward to a positive outcome of the crises in those countries. However, we remain concerned at the prevailing volatile situations in Burundi, Liberia and Somalia. We welcome all initiatives aimed at finding the needed political settlement of the crises in these African countries. The recurrence of such long-lasting conflicts remains a serious challenge to the international community as a whole and also to the efforts within the framework of the recently established Organization of African Unity (OAU) Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. My delegation wishes to commend all the countries that have lent their support to the functioning of the Mechanism, thus enabling Africans to take a much more active role in searching for solutions to the conflicts on their continent. The recent outbreak of violence in the Middle East is a matter of grave concern to my delegation. This violence, if not averted urgently, will be a serious setback to the commendable progress made in the quest for a political settlement to the long-standing conflict in that region. We call upon all the parties concerned to exercise maximum restraint and to display the needed political maturity in the implementation of the mutually agreed commitments in the interest of all the peoples of the region. In this connection, we are encouraged by the dialogue initiated in the recent summit in Washington between the Prime Minister of Israel and the President of the Palestinian Authority with a view to putting an end to violence and resuming the peace process. We have also followed the developments regarding the issue of East Timor. In making an assessment of the progress made so far, one cannot fail to register disappointment over the slow pace of talks between Indonesia and Portugal. Nevertheless, my delegation wishes to encourage both countries to assume their responsibilities with more vigour, with a view to finding a just, comprehensive and internationally acceptable solution to this issue, bearing in mind the need to allow the people of East Timor an opportunity to exercise their political rights, including the right to self-determination. Time and again, virtually all Member States have emphasized the critical need to undertake reforms within the United Nations so as to ensure greater effectiveness in its work and to fulfil the sacrosanct principles enshrined in its Charter. The needed reforms within our Organization should not be regarded as an end in themselves. They should, inter alia, pave the way for the active and global participation of the developing countries, particularly the least developed countries, in the work and procedures of the United Nations, including the Economic and Social Council, bearing in mind the shared responsibilities of these countries in the economic and social challenges facing today’s world. In this reform process, the strengthening of the United Nations system, which does not necessarily mean downsizing, is of paramount importance. The revitalization of the role of the Economic and Social Council is long overdue to allow better coordination and effective and efficient management of the funds, programmes and specialized agencies of the United Nations system. Reforms should also reflect the dynamics of international relations and the growing need for enhanced democracy, equitable geographic representation and the changes in the composition of its membership since the establishment of the United Nations 51 years ago. Above all, they should ensure the needed legitimacy, transparency and efficiency of its decisions. In this connection, my delegation shares the frustrations expressed by a number of delegations regarding the lack of tangible progress within the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and other matters related to the Security Council. Since the beginning of its procedures, important and interesting ideas have been advanced in this regard. Therefore, nobody can deny the arguments calling for an expansion of that body. Lack of progress on the enlargement of the Security Council will only undermine the ability of the United Nations to discharge fully its obligations and limit the confidence of international public opinion on the future of our Organization. It is only by addressing the issue of enlargement and by each one’s fulfilling its financial obligations that we can reaffirm our commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter and expect a well-functioning and dynamic United Nations ready to face the challenges of the next century. What is necessary is a genuine political will to change the status quo, which has favoured a limited number of Member States to the detriment of the legitimate interests of the vast majority of its membership. In its 51 years of existence the United Nations, despite numerous difficulties during this period, has been able to achieve its crucial objective of halting the emergence of a third world war. Therefore, it must be allowed to continue to preserve the gains already achieved and draw lessons from mistakes of the past so as to ensure the feasibility of its mandate, as we approach the twenty-first century, in the maintenance of international peace and security, in monitoring the implementation of important decisions taken in the economic, social and environmental fields and in playing a more dynamic role in the quest for the development of our countries.  ﻿It is a pleasure for me to warmly congratulate Mr. Razali on his election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. We are sure that his extensive experience and political sophistication will make a significant contribution to the success of its work. I should like also to express my thanks and appreciation to his predecessor for his judicious management of the work of the General Assembly during its last session. I would like to take this opportunity to express once more my country’s appreciation of the role played by the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and of his sincere, invaluable efforts to strengthen the role of the Organization in keeping abreast of international events and developments to the benefit of all humanity and in order to preserve international peace and security. On behalf of Yemen, I would also like to express my country’s support for the re-election of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali for a second term as Secretary-General so he can continue the comprehensive restructuring of the United Nations, which will enable it to play a significant and fundamental role responsive to the demands of the twenty-first century. As this session is being held, new and dangerous developments are taking place, threatening peace and security in the Middle East. The situation in Jerusalem and other parts of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip has exploded as a result of the aggressive unjustified actions and harsh practices undertaken by the Israeli authorities against the Palestinian people, and their continued attempts to change the character of Holy Al-Quds Al-Sharif. The most recent of these attempts was Israel’s opening of a tunnel linking Al-Borac Square and Al-Mujahidin Street near Bab Al-Asbat, threatening the integrity of Al-Haram Al-Sharif and other Islamic monuments. During the last few days, the Israeli army and police force have used various kinds of weapons and live ammunition against unarmed Palestinian protesters. These clashes have caused the death or injury of hundreds of innocent Palestinians. We strongly condemn and denounce the actions and practices of the Israeli military forces and their repeated acts of aggression against Palestinian officials and citizens in Arab Al-Quds and other Palestinian towns, which have led to the death and injury of hundreds of people. The terrorism and oppression carried out by the Israeli occupying authority constitute a gross violation of human rights, legitimate international resolutions and the Fourth Geneva Convention, which applies to occupied territories. This critical development can only exacerbate the situation and return the region to a cycle of tension and violence. It threatens peace and security not only in the Middle East region but in the whole world. This year, the Republic of Yemen celebrated the sixth anniversary of its unification, achieved after successfully overcoming all the difficulties and challenges in the way of unity and development. These celebrations coincided with preparations for voter registration for the second parliamentary elections since the reunification of our country, which are to be held in April 1997 reinforcing democracy in our country. Our democratic approach is demonstrated by our political pluralism, and our respect for human rights and freedom of the press, and will enable us to achieve qualitative changes in the economic, social and political life of Yemeni citizens. Today the Republic of Yemen is enjoying stability, a democratic process and economic reforms, which must enjoy the encouragement and support of the international community since this democratic process will contribute to the strengthening of security and stability at the local and regional levels. At the same time, our people are in the midst of a difficult and important battle for social and economic development and modernization and for the elimination of backwardness. Some of the most serious problems we face as a developing country are inflation, the increase in the rates of population growth and their effects on the growth rate of the national economy. In order to deal with that, the Government has adopted a programme of economic, financial and administrative reforms in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the aim of correcting economic, financial and structural imbalances. This has been done to achieve balance and stability in the economy as a whole and to 20 activate the role of the private sector on the basis of a market economy and free competition, while taking into account the importance of improving basic essential social services, building a modern State and improving the standard of living of citizens. Efforts by the Yemeni Government to implement this programme have yielded improvements and have had notable success, especially in preventing the collapse of the local currency, reducing the rate of inflation and achieving a positive growth rate. However, it has proved difficult to alleviate suffering in the social sphere. These difficulties have been compounded by the disastrous floods which plagued Yemen last June, causing extensive, grave losses of life and property. These affected some parts of the infrastructure and harmed many people. Agricultural land was eroded and livestock was destroyed. Houses, roads, bridges, health centres, sources of drinking water and schools in many areas of the Republic of Yemen were all destroyed. These losses and damages were a major disaster and economic setback for Yemen. I would like to take this opportunity to renew my call for international and humanitarian organizations and fraternal and friendly Governments to provide help and support to overcome the disastrous effects of the floods. I would also like to thank all those organizations and Governments that have responded and offered support for and solidarity with the people of Yemen in their ordeal. The Republic of Yemen, in the framework of its political orientation, is pursuing a foreign policy based on mutual respect and the common interests of States. It therefore stresses the importance of maintaining security, stability and cooperation among all States in the region. In this regard, demarcation of the border between our country and the fraternal Sultanate of Oman has been definitively concluded through a dialogue based upon mutual interests, equitable treatment and respect for the rights of both countries. This achievement represents a significant positive step that will serve security and stability in the region and deepen trust between the two countries. Similarly, our country is working with the same sincerity and credibility to settle the issue of the border with the fraternal Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the basis of mutual interests and in the light of the Taif Agreement and the contents of the memorandum of understanding signed by the two countries on 26 February 1995 in the Holy City of Mecca. Pursuant to this, joint committees have been formed to discuss the border issue, its demarcation, the development of all aspects of cultural, trade and economic relations and the strengthening of cooperation between the two fraternal countries. Moreover, a security agreement was signed on 27 July 1996 that emphasized the concerns of both countries for their joint security and to combat terrorism, exchange security information and strengthen cooperation between their institutions, thus giving concrete form to the spirit of the 1934 Taif Treaty and the memorandum of understanding signed on 26 February 1995. An agreement on technical, investment, trade and economic cooperation was also signed. The Republic of Yemen has shown a sincere desire and strong political will and has made continuous efforts to address the matter of the Eritrean occupation in mid-December 1995 of the Yemeni island of Hanish al-Kabir in the Red Sea. While negotiations were taking place between the two countries aimed at reaching a peaceful settlement that would respect legal, historical and geographical rights, our country did not opt for the use of force. From the very first day, we stressed the necessity of using peaceful means, dialogue through mediators and international arbitration in order to spare the two neighbouring peoples the scourges of war and conflict, in keeping with its belief in the principles and purposes of the United Nations and its commitment to the provisions of the Charter. Accordingly, an agreement of principles between Yemen and Eritrea was officially signed in Paris on 21 May 1996. This was the fruit of French, Egyptian and Ethiopian mediation efforts and of the support of our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. This agreement was a sound basis on which to settle peacefully the dispute between the two countries regarding issues of territorial sovereignty and maritime borders. On this basis, discussions have begun on special arbitration measures and the mechanism to be used with a view to starting the process as soon as possible. It is unfortunate that, despite all these procedures, Eritrea took new action on the island of Hanish af-Saghir on 10 August 1996. This act violated the agreement of principles and created an atmosphere of tension and conflict in the region, threatening stability, security and the safety of international shipping in the region. Now that Eritrea has withdrawn its forces from the island of Hanish af-Saghir and the crisis has passed, we would like to express our thanks and appreciation for the role played and efforts made by France and its special envoy, and the positions of the Secretary-General and the President and members of the Security Council, and to all those fraternal and friendly States that declared their 21 support for the principles agreed upon for resolving the conflict peacefully through arbitration. Finally, my country would like to stress that a peaceful settlement is the proper way to improve relations between Yemen and Eritrea and to promote the trust necessary to creating an atmosphere conducive to the development of relations between the two countries and the peoples of Yemen and Eritrea. The civil war in Somalia has gone beyond the bounds of reason and, as our country is a neighbour of fraternal Somalia, we have found ourselves shouldering the burden of receiving and housing tens of thousands of refugees. We have also cooperated with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and non-governmental organizations in sheltering and feeding the Somali refugees, although this is a heavy burden on our country and compounds its existing economic and social ills. We are deeply disturbed by the continuing fragmentation, fighting and uncertainty in Somalia. The Republic of Yemen considers that the responsibility for solving the refugee problem, which is a social and economic burden of significant proportions, and the solution of the Somali problem lie with the Somalis themselves. On that basis, we urge the Somali leadership once again to demonstrate greater political will and a genuine desire to reach a final settlement for peace and stability in their country and to engage in dialogue in order to save their people, rebuild their country and give the refugees the opportunity to return to their homes and resettle. In order to facilitate this, Yemen has received a number of Somali leaders and made every effort to assist the Somalis themselves to reach a national accord acceptable to all. We hope these efforts will be successful. The achievement of national reconciliation in Somalia and the improvement of security and stability in that country and the entire Horn of Africa are at the forefront of our concerns, embodying our historical and strategic relationships, which are inextricably intertwined with all the States of the region. In view of the Republic of Yemen’s positive support for the peace process in the Middle East, which began with the Madrid Conference in October 1991, guaranteeing a just and comprehensive peace on the basis of legitimate international resolutions, particularly Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), and subsequent agreements and protocols in this regard, and on the basis of the principle of land for peace and guarantees of complete Israeli withdrawal from all occupied Arab territories, we once again emphasize the necessity for a lasting, just and comprehensive peace as the basis for security, stability and prosperity in the region. Only this can ensure that the root causes of violence and extremism will be destroyed and that the values of tolerance, peaceful coexistence and civilized cooperation among peoples will be promoted. Accordingly, we would like to express our concern about the resumption of the Israeli policy of settlement on Palestinian land, especially around the city of Al-Quds Al-Sharif. The Israelis are establishing settlements, destroying Palestinian houses, building bypass roads for Israeli settlers, continuing the blockade of Palestinian lands and refusing to redeploy Israeli forces out of Hebron. These Israeli practices constitute blatant violations of agreements and pledges made between Israel and the Palestinian Authority and can only exacerbate tensions and return the peace process to its starting point, possibly even derailing the entire process. We therefore stress the importance of making rapid progress towards a final settlement leading to restoration of the Palestinians’ legitimate rights, particularly the rights to self-determination and to establish an independent State with Jerusalem as its capital, in accordance with relevant international resolutions and the basic principles underlying the Madrid Conference. Negotiations on the basis of those principles and with all parties respecting their commitments should be conducted on all tracks. The peace process is currently facing risks and challenges that are preventing it from achieving its aims. Israel is deliberately dragging its feet and is persistent in its procrastination over negotiations with the Syrian Arab Republic on the basis of the agreements reached by both parties under the previous Israeli Government. Among the most important of these was the obligation to withdraw fully from the occupied Syrian Golan and southern Lebanon in accordance with relevant international resolutions and the principle of “land for peace”. We stress the need for Israel to respect the sovereignty and independence of fraternal Lebanon, release Lebanese prisoners and detainees from Israeli concentration camps and acknowledge its responsibility to compensate Lebanon for the losses it has sustained as a result of the continuing Israeli acts of aggression against its land and people. A just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East, together with security and stability in the region, can be achieved only if every State of the region fulfils its obligations equally and through the establishment of a nuclear-, biological- and chemical- 22 weapon-free zone in the region. Israel must ratify the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and submit its nuclear installations to the international inspection regime as a step towards establishing a nuclear- weapon-free zone in the Middle East and freeing the area from the threat of all weapons of mass destruction. In this context, we would like to express our satisfaction at the signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty at the beginning of this session. Yemen will sign the Treaty today. While Yemen stresses the importance of Iraq’s total compliance with resolutions of the international community and its continuing cooperation with the United Nations, we would also stress the need to preserve the unity, territorial sovereignty and integrity of Iraq. We also express our great concern about and condemnation of any action in this regard affecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq and appeal for the alleviation of the suffering of the Iraqi people. We therefore welcome the memorandum of understanding signed in May 1996 between Iraq and the United Nations on the implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995), providing for the sale of petroleum for the purchase of food as a first step towards alleviating the terrible suffering of the fraternal Iraqi people. We call upon the international community and the Security Council to pursue the lifting of the air blockade and other measures imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya pursuant to Security Council resolutions and to respond to the resolutions and proposals of regional organizations. The most recent of these was the initiative put forward at the emergency Arab summit held in Cairo from 21 to 23 June 1996 in order to resolve the conflict between the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and the three countries concerned. The Republic of Yemen renews its call to the fraternal countries of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the United Arab Emirates to continue a direct dialogue aimed at reaching a peaceful settlement of the issue of the three islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of good neighbourliness and respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States in the region, and to resort to international arbitration in a manner that will satisfy both parties. Our country also emphasizes its solidarity with fraternal Bahrain and expresses its complete support for the measures it has taken to ensure its security and stability. The tragic situation of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina has preoccupied the Yemeni people. The Republic of Yemen therefore welcomes the Agreements that the parties involved in the conflict reached last November in Dayton and Paris in order to bring peace to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to express its satisfaction with the contents of the Agreements, which stressed the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On this occasion, we wish to register our appreciation of the efforts made by the United States of America and the States of the European Union to bring about these Agreements. We call upon the international community to provide every possible support to the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and their plans for the development and reconstruction of their country. We would also stress the need for every party to surrender all war criminals to the International Tribunal in The Hague so that they may be brought to account for their heinous crimes against humanity in violation of international law, human rights and international agreements. The Republic of Yemen, in view of its geographical position on the Indian Ocean, places particular importance on any effort made to strengthen cooperation between the Ocean’s littoral States. Accordingly, our country took part in the most recent meeting, held in Mauritius, to complete the drafting of the constitution and platform of action for the planned Indian Ocean rim initiative. We take this opportunity to express our satisfaction with the work of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Indian Ocean to implement the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace, free of nuclear weapons. We call upon the permanent members of the Security Council and maritime users of the Indian Ocean to participate in the work of the Committee in order to strengthen security, peace, stability and cooperation in the region in accordance with relevant General Assembly resolutions. In conclusion, I should like to express our hope that the work of this session will enjoy every success, strengthening the United Nations and its bodies and enabling them to achieve their goals and the ideals embodied in the Charter in a manner appropriate to the spirit of the age and international changes ﻿I am delighted to extend to the President and his country, Malaysia, the sincere congratulations of the Government and the people of Botswana on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. His record as an accomplished diplomat has the admiration of my delegation. He can therefore count on the full support and cooperation of the delegation of Botswana in the discharge of his demanding responsibilities. We salute his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his successful stewardship of the fiftieth session and the Special Commemorative Meeting. The last five years have been the most momentous in the history of the United Nations, imposing on the world body enormous responsibilities, which the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros- Ghali, and the Secretariat have carried out with a deep sense of commitment and dedication. We assure them that they continue to enjoy the confidence and full support of Botswana in the execution of their duties. The African continent continues to make commendable progress in the consolidation of freedom and democracy. This year the continent witnessed the successful holding of multi-party elections in Benin, Sierra Leone and the United Republic of Tanzania. The right of citizens to organize themselves and participate freely in the political processes of their countries, and respect for human rights, form the basis for stability, democracy and development. 23 Indeed, the continent has increasingly embraced these universal values, which are an integral part of a democratic culture. Not only has Africa embraced political pluralism, accountability and good governance, it has also demonstrated its readiness to defend these principles. A year ago we expected that the people of Angola would by now have started a new chapter of peace in the history of their country. It is regrettable that to date the way forward remains unclear. We strongly call upon those who have contributed to the current stalemate in Angola to see reason and show more commitment to the peace process. Two days ago the Heads of State and Government of southern Africa met in Luanda, Angola, in an effort to persuade all concerned to ensure the speedy implementation of the Lusaka Protocol. We are deeply concerned about the situation in Burundi. The country is wallowing in a quagmire of self- destruction. No amount of reasoning and persuasion has thus far succeeded in drawing the political leaders in Burundi away from a path of mutual annihilation and to the path of accommodation and reconciliation. We salute the efforts of the regional leaders and of the international community aimed at ensuring the restoration of democracy and constitutional order in Burundi. That sister country deserves some reprieve from the traumatic experience it has recently gone through. Burundi needs peace and stability now, not tomorrow. While the situation in Rwanda remains tense, there are some encouraging signs that the country is making steady progress towards normalcy. Preparations for next year’s general elections seem to be well under way. We urge the international community to spare no effort in encouraging that country towards national reconciliation. Key among the necessary measures to be undertaken is the safe return of refugees to their homeland. Despite all efforts by the international community, and by West Africa in particular, the political crisis in Liberia has so far eluded solution. We call upon all the parties concerned to ensure that elections are held in May 1997 as scheduled. In our view, and in reality, Western Sahara poses a major political and moral problem. Botswana is committed to the holding of a free, fair and impartial referendum for the people of Western Sahara, in accordance with the Settlement Plan. We are deeply concerned that the identification process has been in a state of paralysis for several months now. Somalia continues to haunt the conscience of the world. The situation in that country is a tragic demonstration of how a disparate assortment of gunmen can hijack and destroy a nation. The United Nations should not consider Somalia a lost cause. We should therefore persevere in the search for a comprehensive settlement to the political crisis in that country. Recent developments in the Middle East are a matter of profound concern to Botswana. Starting in September 1993 we were pleased to witness the dramatic unfolding of a promising peace process between Israel and the Palestinians, on the one hand, and between Israel and Jordan, on the other. We looked forward to the resumption of negotiations between Israel and its Arab neighbours, Syria and Lebanon, which, hopefully, would have ushered in a lasting solution to the conflict in the Middle East. Recent events in the occupied Arab territories are a stark indicator of what can happen to the peace process if things are allowed to drag on and on. We appeal to the Government of Israel to fulfil its obligations under the agreements it signed with the Palestinians. Developments on the Korean peninsula have also been a matter of grave concern. Botswana is committed to the peaceful reunification of Korea. Botswana follows developments in Cyprus with keen interest. The continued division of Cyprus is a serious violation of the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of a Member State of the United Nations. Land-mines, particularly anti-personnel land-mines, are a major threat to humanity. Botswana strongly believes that the solution to the menace of anti-personnel land-mines lies in a total ban on production, stockpiling, export and use. Existing protocols have provided only a partial solution to this problem. There is a glaring need for a binding international legal instrument for the progressive and ultimate elimination of these weapons. The production, stockpiling and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, of which nuclear weapons are the most lethal, is also a matter of deep concern to my delegation. For far too long, non-nuclear-weapon States have been calling for an international legal instrument to safeguard them against the threat or use of 24 these weapons. The response of the nuclear Powers has been less than reassuring, to say the least. Unilateral statements on security assurances, which have been transmitted through a Security Council resolution, do not meet the demands of the overwhelming majority of the membership of this Organization. The security of non-nuclear-weapon States from the threat or use of these dangerous weapons can only be guaranteed by the institution of a legally binding international instrument. Botswana is committed to the early conclusion of such an instrument, and we hope that the nuclear-weapon States will demonstrate the necessary commitment to meet the concerns of non-nuclear-weapon States. Article VI of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons commits parties, inter alia, to reach agreement “on a Treaty on general and complete disarmament under strict and effective international control”. Unfortunately, the nuclear-weapon States are resolutely opposed to the total elimination of nuclear weapons. Not only are these States resistant to this noble ideal, but they continue to develop new types of weapons. What conclusions are we expected to draw from this state of affairs? It is difficult for nuclear-weapon States to claim the moral high ground to dissuade any State from acquiring the same weapons for the defence of its supreme national interests, while they themselves consider such weapons a reliable means of self-defence. Nuclear-weapon States should accept their responsibility to enter into and conclude negotiations for the elimination of these weapons. The General Assembly has repeatedly called upon the Conference on Disarmament to accelerate consideration of the question of the expansion of its membership. We thus call upon the Conference on Disarmament to address speedily the question of its expansion to the satisfaction of the general membership of the United Nations. Five years have passed since the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s was adopted by the General Assembly. While we all applauded the adoption of the New Agenda, it has to be accepted that the necessary operational framework was never put in place to ensure effective mobilization and disbursement of the target resources. Concerned about the poor performance of the United Nations New Agenda, in March this year the Secretary- General launched the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa, which has the backing of the World Bank, among others. The Initiative envisages an expenditure of some $25 billion over a 10-year period to address identified sectoral development priorities. This is a laudable Initiative which should afford Africa the opportunity to address effectively the critical nexus of food security, population and the environment. For their part, most African countries have met their obligations as spelled out in national structural adjustment programmes, in addition to the efforts made in the fields of democracy, human rights and good governance. Although southern Africa today enjoys relative peace and stability, it will continue to need special assistance in order to address the problems of reconstruction and development of the economic, physical and social infrastructures which were destroyed or adversely affected by many years of war and racial injustice. We have no doubt that the international community will complement our efforts so that we can launch our region on a firm road to regional integration and economic development. Botswana is a strong proponent of the reform and restructuring of the United Nations. My President, who is a member of the Secretary-General’s United Nations Panel of High-level Personalities on African Development, firmly believes in a more action-oriented and streamlined United Nations system that is able to deliver. But we do not agree with those who advocate a “cut-cut” approach. There could be areas where additional staff could be the catalyst to enhanced effectiveness and efficiency. What the world needs is a United Nations that has the capacity to implement its programmes and projects effectively and efficiently, a United Nations that can put to better use the human and material resources at its disposal and one that can better guarantee international peace and security and promote international understanding. It should be noted that the responsibility for the reform process, to a large extent, lies squarely with Member States and not with the Secretary-General, although he has a contribution to make in the whole process. Member States should therefore take full responsibility for their inability to reach agreement on various aspects of the reform process and desist from seeking scapegoats for their failure to reach consensus on a multifaceted international and structural reform of the Organization. 25 Botswana and other countries in southern Africa have not been spared the scourge of illicit drug trafficking and consumption. The Heads of State or Government of the Southern African Development Community recently signed, among other instruments, a protocol on illicit drug trafficking. The aim is to pool our resources — such as police forces, customs authorities and drug enforcement agencies — to fight drug trafficking and other cross-border crimes effectively. We look forward to continued international cooperation in this regard. We are hopeful that these efforts will be crowned with success and will receive the full support and cooperation of the international community. The human immunodeficiency virus and acquired immune deficiency syndrome pandemic is another scourge of our time and a serious threat to humanity. The socio- economic consequences of the disease are a matter of grave concern, and the international community should make concerted efforts to address this human tragedy — which affects the young and the productive sectors of our societies in particular — before it is too late. To conclude, my delegation reaffirms its total confidence in the stewardship of the President of the General Assembly and pledges its loyalty and cooperation. We reaffirm our commitment to work with other delegations towards the strengthening of the United Nations. We reaffirm our confidence in the manner in which the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, manages the affairs of our Organization. We salute him for his visionary leadership and untiring commitment to duty.﻿May I, on behalf of the delegation of Jamaica, convey to Mr. Razali Ismail our warmest congratulations on his election as President of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. In so doing we pay tribute to his country, Malaysia, which is linked to Jamaica by close ties of friendship and collaboration and which continues to play a prominent role in international affairs. I would assure him of the full support and cooperation of the Jamaican delegation in the deliberations on the many important issues before us. I should like to congratulate your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for the able manner in which he guided the work of the fiftieth session. Let me also express appreciation to the Secretary- General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his untiring efforts to promote peace and development. There are many who, with good reason, approach this fifty-first session with a sense of despair and deep concern about the future of the United Nations and the vital mission that it must undertake on behalf of the peoples of the world. They look back at the promises and the pledges made during the fiftieth anniversary celebrations and try to reconcile these lofty messages with the continuing crisis being faced by this body and the difficulties confronting the multilateral system. Rather than dwelling on the missed opportunities and the difficulties that have confronted us, my delegation would wish for this Assembly to recognize the imperative 15 need for effective global action in the pursuit of the goals of international peace and security, economic and social well-being, and justice for all. In so doing, we must all reaffirm our commitment to the principles on which the United Nations is based. Our Prime Minister, P. J. Patterson, and other world leaders joined in renewing the collective commitment to these principles at last year’s Special Commemorative Meeting. The fundamental goal of the United Nations is the achievement and preservation of international peace and security. We have witnessed in recent times the end of the cold war and the dramatic reduction in East-West tensions. At the same time, we have witnessed the tragic emergence of horrific levels of ethnic tension, regional instability and intra-State upheavals, which have threatened international peace and security. These have severely tested the mettle of the United Nations system and the community of nations as a whole. The challenges to peacemakers and peacekeepers in this period have been many. We must, today, recognize the successes that have been achieved through combined multilateral and regional action in the spirit of the Charter. A functioning multilateral system should work effectively to restrain aggression and the exercise of military power. We must resist tendencies towards unilateralism which are unhealthy and negative signs for the international system. We must insist that the established mechanisms for conflict resolution and decision-making in relation to issues of multilateral security are upheld. Jamaica and sister nations of the Caribbean joined the international community in mounting a United Nations Mission in Haiti that brought an end to the wanton violence and the tragedies at sea that characterized the period of military dictatorship in that country. The return of democracy has brought renewed hope, opportunity and optimism to the people of Haiti. These sentiments can be sustained only if we continue to help the Government and people of Haiti to overcome the obstacles that still confront them in this quest. It is important that the United Nations Support Mission in Haiti be given the means necessary to enable it to meet its objectives. It is even more critical that the international community commit itself to providing the technical and financial resources necessary to assist Haiti to achieve economic and social development. The nations of the Caribbean seek to maintain a climate free of tension and confrontation. We seek the normalization of relations, which will reduce the atmosphere of uncertainty and the dangers of confrontation in the region. We seek this in an atmosphere of respect for sovereign rights and a commitment to the peaceful settlement of disputes. We reject the extra-territorial application of national legislation, which is inconsistent with international law. Within the wider Caribbean, we continue to pursue the goal of regional integration through the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and the Association of Caribbean States. It is our objective to achieve the creation of a Caribbean zone of peace and cooperation. We are united by a common determination to remove the barriers that divide us and to protect the precious natural heritage that we share. For this we have to engage the active participation of all countries in the region. We wish to commend the efforts of African Governments and the Organization of African Unity to overcome the grave difficulties that Africa has been experiencing. We particularly welcome the initiative for a conference on peace, security and stability in the African Great Lakes region. We can only hope that, through a comprehensive approach, lasting solutions can be found to the situations in Burundi and Rwanda. We reiterate our strong support for the efforts of the international community to implement the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa. We are encouraged by recent events in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which have paved the way for elections in that country, and look forward to the restoration of stability and a harmonious relationship among its people. We support the position that the Middle East peace process should be consolidated and proceed on the basis of the principles already agreed and accepted by all parties. There should be no turning back. Peace is attainable if the parties approach negotiations in a spirit of accommodation and compromise, and recognize their common interest in ensuring stability and mutual respect for each other’s rights. We hope that the talks, which begin today at the invitation of President Clinton, will lead to a speedy agreement among the parties. While the United Nations must focus critical attention on the crises caused by conflict and violent confrontation, it must never lose sight of the root cause of instability and tension — poverty, deprivation, hunger 16 and disease. It is in the depth of human misery that the swords of anger and division are most quickly unsheathed. A commitment to the goals of peace and security is meaningless without a commitment to fostering sustained economic growth and sustainable development, and to waging war on poverty and human misery. The emerging global economic environment gives us cause for both optimism and grave anxiety. Phenomenal economic growth in a few countries is contrasted with decline and stagnation in the majority. An increasingly affluent world coexists with a huge and marginalized underclass. This polarization is reflected both internally and externally. A failure to address inequities can and will inevitably lead to what the 1996 Human Development Report so graphically describes on page 8 as “a world gargantuan in its excesses and grotesque in its human and economic inequalities.” For many low-income countries that lack adequate access to development capital and other resources, official development assistance remains a critical but diminishing source of support. Moreover, the problem of external debt is also a burden for many of these countries. Agreed arrangements have proved inadequate in alleviating debt burdens, and alternate strategies still have to be found. It is against this background that Jamaica continues to insist that achieving sustained economic growth and sustainable development must remain a priority objective of the global agenda. In the series of global conferences ending recently with the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), Governments demonstrated their ability to collaborate in analyzing socio- economic and environmental problems. Taken together, these conferences represent deliberate efforts to define a framework for development cooperation and multilateral commitments. These global forums have raised the level of awareness of development issues. We should now not allow inertia to take over. It is essential, therefore, that we honour the commitments and meet the internationally agreed targets emanating from these conferences. Their success depends on political will and the provision of adequate resources to ensure follow-up and implementation. The 1997 special session devoted to the assessment and review of the implementation of Agenda 21 and the results of the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio will provide an ideal opportunity for the international community to assess progress in carrying out the agreed commitments. For small island developing countries, the review process is of great significance, and we hope it will provide the momentum fully to implement the Barbados Programme of Action. Governments, including my own, have created their own framework for implementation at the national level. Jamaica has embraced the concept of sustainable development, and our policies have been oriented towards achieving these goals. The main challenge faced by small island developing States is to find the resources to develop a programme that is designed to reduce the vulnerability of their economies and generate economic growth and development. This envisages a systematic approach to the categorization of island developing countries by specialization or socio-economic performance. The Uruguay Round agreements, on which the World Trade Organization is founded, provide the framework for a liberalized multilateral trading system. Many developing countries are unlikely to benefit in the short term from the Uruguay Round agreements. Structurally weak and vulnerable developing countries require favourable arrangements and equitable terms and conditions to enable them to make the necessary adjustments to participate successfully in world trade. Free trade must never be viewed as an end in itself; it must be a vehicle for development. It is for this reason that the World Trade Organization recognizes the need for special and differential treatment for developing countries and waivers for special trading regimes. This must be respected in both letter and spirit. We are of the firm view that no action should be taken to erode our vital interests or remove equitable and long-standing arrangements that affect the very economic survival of some developing countries. In this context, I refer to the current action by a coalition of powerful special interests with respect to the special terms enjoyed by a number of developing countries through their arrangements with the European Union. It has been made abundantly clear that the removal of preferences would 17 have a serious negative impact on the economies of Jamaica and other Caribbean countries. My delegation therefore calls upon those who would seek to use the World Trade Organization as an instrument to attack the very foundation of the economies of small developing States to desist from this course of action. The thoughtless assault upon the Lomé Banana Protocol is of great concern to my country and to sister Caribbean banana producers, which stand to suffer economic devastation if the selfish acts of these powerful interests are allowed to succeed. The trend towards globalization is irreversible, but not all of us are capable of making the adjustments necessary in the short term to cope with its consequences. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) has an important role to play in assisting developing countries to meet the challenges brought about by globalization and liberalization and to facilitate their integration in the world trading system. In this regard, we welcome the renewed vigour of this body, as exemplified at the ninth session of UNCTAD, where Governments reaffirmed the relevance of UNCTAD’s mandate as the focal point for dealing with trade and related development issues. It is necessary to examine and assess the United Nations system and its capacity to respond to political and humanitarian emergencies. The United Nations must begin to link peace-keeping and peacemaking in a more coherent and consistent manner. We note the work in this regard taking place in the Assembly’s Informal Open-ended Working Group on an Agenda for Peace. We recognize the need for a rapidly deployable unit and support the efforts to put this in place. An important step was taken in the field of disarmament recently with the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). Jamaica regards the CTBT as an incremental step and looks forward to the next stage, which is the adoption of a programme to achieve the ultimate goal of complete nuclear disarmament. Those States with nuclear capabilities have a responsibility to carry out their obligations in good faith not only in regard to nuclear testing, but also with respect to non- proliferation. The problem of drug abuse and illicit traffic in narcotics continues to pose a serious threat to society. The extent of drug abuse and drug trafficking shows that it transcends national and geographic boundaries. National commitment and international cooperation are therefore required to address this problem. It is against this background that Jamaica strongly supports the convening of a special session of the General Assembly in 1998 to address the illicit trafficking in and use of drugs. At the same time, we must recognize the impact of related criminal activity, which is spawned by the illicit drug trade. Of particular concern is the nexus between drug trafficking and trafficking in arms and high-powered weapons. We urge those States that are producers of these arms to be more vigilant in enforcing control over their distribution and illegal export. Since we met last year, significant developments have occurred with regard to the implementation of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. With the completion of elections to the various institutions of the authority, the International Seabed Authority is now operational. We congratulate Secretary-General Mr. Satya Nandan on his election and express our confidence that his leadership and guidance will enable the Authority to discharge its mandate. It is vital that adequate resources be provided in order to ensure that the Authority becomes firmly established. We also take this opportunity to welcome the historic election on 1 August of the members of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. We look forward to the inauguration of the Tribunal in its host city of Hamburg later this month. This will be another landmark in the process of the implementation of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. We should note the tremendous achievements of the United Nations in the progressive development of international law. A significant number of instruments have been concluded that provide the legal underpinnings of the multilateral system. It is a dynamic process which is helping to bring more order to international relations. The creation of an international criminal court is among the latest initiatives on which substantive work has been done. Jamaican experts have participated actively in the progressive development of international law. We are ready to contribute further to the machinery of the international legal system. To respond to a multitude of challenges, the United Nations needs to be renewed and revitalized. There is a strongly shared perception that we must proceed expeditiously with the task of bringing about the much- needed reform of the United Nations system in the collective interest. The initiative to restructure and 18 improve performance, productivity and the cost- effectiveness of the United Nations system is an important one. The adoption of resolution 50/227 — which contains further measures for the restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations system in the economic, social and related fields — is evidence of the efforts to improve the operational aspects of the work of the system. Jamaica is committed to working with other Member States throughout this session of the General Assembly to continue the process of strengthening the Organization. The persistence of disputes and conflicts suggests the need for strengthening the United Nations machinery for dealing with these problems. The Security Council, which under the Charter of the United Nations holds the mandate for the maintenance of international peace and security, has an important and strategic role to play in the process. As we all know, aspects of its composition and role are currently under review. Certainly, it is acknowledged that we should be moving in the direction of greater democratization and increased participation by Member States in critical decisions affecting the international community. The expansion of the membership of the United Nations and the significant changes in the political and economic conditions in Member States must surely be important factors in determining changes in the composition of the Council and the status of its members. Jamaica is not committed to any rigid formula for change, but whatever formula is arrived at should satisfy the need for democratic participation consistent with the sovereign equality of States and with the equitable distribution of seats. The need for reform should be matched by increased political will to use the machinery of the United Nations for the peaceful settlement of disputes and to cooperate with conciliation efforts under the auspices of the Secretary-General. Reform must not be for its own sake. The purpose of reform must be to strengthen the capacity to deliver responsive and responsible leadership on questions of peace and security, socio-economic development, human rights and environmental protection. We understand and support the need for reform of the administrative and management process in the system, but what we cannot accept are unilateral actions to force reform by withholding assessed contributions to the United Nations. This has brought the Organization to the brink of insolvency and is hampering the very efforts being made for reform and restructuring. More critical are the serious consequences for the development programmes of the United Nations. The current crisis will not be resolved until Member States pay their arrears and assessed contributions promptly and without conditions. At the same time, we recognize the need to examine carefully the existing formula for contributions. The establishment of any new formula must be based on the principles of equity and the capacity of Member States to pay. The agenda of issues before us at this session shows that there is a great deal to be done. In many areas, we have made progress, even if it has been slow. It is essential that we continue to make the effort, through discussion, debate and negotiation, to find solutions that remove from our world the threats of war and conflict and the pain of poverty and misery. Through our joint efforts we can make progress, reach compromises and arrive at solutions that will make our world safer and give each and every one of us a greater stake in the future.  ﻿Let me begin by expressing my warmest congratulations to Mr. Razali Ismail on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly as well as my best wishes for his success. I am pleased also to take this occasion to convey my sincere appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral for the excellent manner in which he guided the proceedings of the Assembly during the previous session. We wish also to pay tribute to the Secretary- General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his invaluable contribution and his tireless efforts in effectively steering the Organization. Despite many difficulties and financial problems, the United Nations is striving to play its irreplaceable role in the service of peace and security through peacekeeping operations and the promotion of international cooperation. The United Nations Blue Helmets have already become symbols of hope in the major areas of conflict throughout the world. The Albanian Government sincerely hopes that a lasting peace will be established in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Burundi, Liberia, and everywhere else. The United Nations is undergoing the most severe financial crisis in its history. This year alone, the Organization ran out of money in its regular budget three times and was therefore forced to borrow funds from its peacekeeping operations budget. The tasks of today and the challenges of tomorrow require a general reform of the entire United Nations system. Albania has actively participated in the debate on the preparatory process to reform the Security Council within the framework of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council. Albania is in favour of increasing the size of the Council by two permanent seats: Germany and Japan. We also believe that options should be considered that relate to a broader representation of Member States, in order to make the Council more efficient and better able to fulfil its mandate. Revitalization of the Economic and Social Council must be part of the reform process. We all firmly believe that as long as wide economic gaps exist between North and South, and East and West, several peoples and countries will face key problems related to their survival, and risks of tension, conflicts and regional hostility will prevail. For this reason, reform of the Security Council will not aid the cause of global peace and stability if it is not accompanied by an equally effective reform of the Economic and Social Council. After a long 50 years of communist rule, Albania has now been a democracy for five years. During this period of democratic reform, it has had to face innumerable major problems, including its communist heritage, with its associated spirit of class struggle; and its extreme poverty and strict isolation. The country’s transition was rendered yet more difficult by the situation in the region, which was weighted down by the crisis in the former Yugoslavia and the related application of the sanctions regime for several years. Nonetheless, Albania has been able to evolve from a one-party to a multiple-party system; from repression to the establishment of a State based on the rule of law and on respect for human rights and minorities; from a highly centralized and depressed economy to a growing, free- market economy; and from isolationism to openness to Euro-Atlantic integration. Albania’s gross domestic product has increased annually, from 11 per cent in 1992 to 15 per cent in 1996. Inflation fell 400 per cent in 1992 and now stands at 7.5 per cent in 1996. Our national currency’s exchange rate has gained some stability, and our foreign debt has been paid. Although five years ago the economy was totally centralized, privatization is now proceeding rapidly in all the major economic sectors; at present 75 per cent of overall production comes from the private sector. The unemployment rate has dropped from 39 per cent in 1992 to 12 per cent in 1996. Within four years, Albania was able to completely liberalize prices. Clearly, transforming a centralized economy into a market economy is difficult and sometimes painful, especially for certain economic sectors and for certain segments of the population. I should like to take this opportunity to again sincerely thank the European Union, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Monetary Fund and a number of United Nations specialized agencies for the valuable assistance they have provided to my country during this period of transition. We are confident that these institutions will continue to help Albania. Over the past four years, Albania’s prestige in the international arena has increased considerably, giving proof of its priority Euro-Atlantic orientation. Albania is already a member of the Council of Europe and an active participant in the Partnership for Peace, and is working for its full integration into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union. In this regard Albania highly appreciates the support of the member States of the European Union and is convinced that the time has come to accelerate the process of Albania’s integration. We also welcome the current progress being made in solidifying our relations with the United States, which the Albanians consider to be the champion of democracy and freedom. We are confident that these relations, which are of great importance to Albania, will continue to develop. Albania’s regional policy is based on a desire to promote peace and stability in the Balkans. Given the geo-strategic position of Albania, the deteriorating situation of those Albanians living in exile in other Balkan countries, and the prolonged crisis in the former Yugoslavia, the Albanian Government’s significant contribution to regional peace and stability demonstrates its willingness to establish regional cooperation in line with Euro-Atlantic trends. Determined to continue this policy and to increase its contribution, Albania hosted the first Conference of South-Balkans Defence Ministers, which served as a first step leading to the Conference of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, held in Sofia some months later. As part of this contribution, my country has just established a peacekeeping unit, now serving in Zadar, Croatia within the framework of the Implementation Force (IFOR). The Albanian Government continues to believe that the question of the Balkans requires greater attention by the international community and by the United Nations in particular. The bitter history of the region and the prolonged conflict of recent years have proved clearly that the threat of war always looms large in countries where ultra-nationalism and chauvinism hold sway. We all are aware of the importance of the Dayton Agreement in resolving the conflict in the Balkans. We have always stressed the importance of identifying the major cause of that conflict: Serb ultra-nationalism. While making a serious effort to assist in the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, the Government of the Republic of Albania wishes once again to draw the attention of the United Nations to the serious problem of Kosovo. In the 1980s, Kosovo — more than 90 per cent of whose population consists of Albanians who have lived on their own territory for thousands of years — was the first to speak of the danger that Serb ultra-nationalism posed to the territories of the former Yugoslavia. National chauvinism; ethnic intolerance; racial, economic and religious discrimination; “ethnic cleansing”; and acts of violence and repression against an entire population — characteristic features of Serb policy — were demonstrated for the first time in 2 Kosovo. In fact, the crisis in the former Yugoslavia began in Kosovo, though at that time the international community paid scant attention to what the Albanians were saying. It was not until the crisis became a bloody conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina that proper attention was paid. The Kosovo issue must be duly examined and treated in the spirit of the Dayton Agreement. It is now considered one of the serious international issues that must be resolved, and it has been the subject of several documents and decisions of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and of the United Nations. However, the situation in Kosovo is still tense and volatile. The fact that up to now an armed conflict between the Albanians living in Kosovo and the Serbs has been avoided — or rather, resisted — is primarily the result of the peaceful policy pursued by the legitimate political representatives of the people of Kosovo, and of the foreign policy of the Albanian Government. We believe that Kosovo deserves a status that reflects the political will of its people as well as the international instruments relating to the right of peoples to self- determination. The agreement on education in Kosovo, recently reached by representatives of Kosovo and Belgrade, is a promising step towards further efforts fully to guarantee the Kosovo Albanians basic freedoms and human and national rights. The Government of the Republic of Albania believes that through constructive dialogue, in the presence of a credible international third party, a solution to this acute problem can be found. We thank the General Assembly for its consideration of the situation in Kosovo, particularly through its resolutions 49/204 of 23 December 1994 and 50/190 of 22 December 1995. We would like to take this opportunity to appeal once again to the international community to continue its efforts until this issue is definitively resolved. Albania’s foreign policy is characterized by efforts to establish good relations with its neighbours. Albania has always been in favour of peace, stability, and economic and cultural cooperation with its neighbouring countries. Albania and Greece have been able to establish good relations, which are expanding and strengthening. The Government of the Republic of Albania and the Albanian people are grateful to the Government and the people of Greece for having supported us during our difficult period of transition. The current positive developments in Albanian-Greek relations show, to our great pleasure, that in bilateral relations all problems can be solved satisfactorily and within a reasonable time-frame if there is political good will and a serious commitment by both sides. The friendly relations between our two countries are concrete testimony of the achievements of both the Greek and the Albanian Governments. Good relations between two neighbouring countries such as Albania and Greece show that the existence of national minorities in neighbouring countries can serve as a bridge of friendship and become a connective link between countries. The recognition and equal treatment of national minorities, coupled with respect for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of each State, are essential elements in such relations. The Albanian Government has taken steps to show its interest in establishing mutually beneficial relations with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Albania was among the first countries to officially recognize that State, while at the same time assuring it of our readiness to work with it to establish stronger relations in all fields, independently of the problems relating to the situation and the position of those Albanians living in that State. My country believes that the normalization and improvement of relations with Serbia and Montenegro depends on Belgrade taking certain steps, such as respecting the Dayton Agreement, taking concrete measures to put an end to the violence against and the suppression of the rights of the Albanians in Kosovo, and making a serious commitment to a peaceful solution to the Kosovo question. Albania attaches particular importance to its relations with its western neighbour, Italy. This ancient relationship has lasted as long as our peoples have lived in the Mediterranean. In the framework of the European Union, Italy has been one of the main donors to Albania. We are very grateful to the Italian Government and people for the tremendous assistance they have given our country during this difficult period of transition, and for the spirit of good will that has always prevailed in our relations. We believe these things provide a solid basis for further positive developments in the future. Before concluding my address before the Assembly, allow me to assure members, on behalf of the Albanian Government, of our continued support for the activities of the United Nations. We will continue to contribute to the strengthening of the Organization and of its irreplaceable role in the service of peace, security, progress and democracy throughout the world. My small country, Albania, will always be committed to contribute actively to all the work of the Organization. 3  ﻿At the outset, allow me to extend my heartfelt congratulations to the President on his election to the high office from which he will guide the work of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly. I am confident that his diplomatic experience and commitment to the noble principles of the Charter will impress upon this session new commitment, determination and vigour. I would also like to express our gratitude to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for the skilful manner in which he presided over the work of the fiftieth session. After having been the focus of the international community’s attention for a long time, due to its being exposed to aggression and to its being part of the most serious regional crisis since the Second World War, Croatia has now entered a new era of its history as a free, sovereign and fully independent State. Croatia is now in a position to deal with and resolve almost all its external and internal affairs with its own resources, and through close cooperation with the international community as an equal partner. It gives me great pleasure, therefore, to be able to lead the Croatian delegation at the fifty-first session of the General Assembly with the strong conviction that the time of war is finally behind us and that in the region of south- east Europe, Croatia is no longer a part of a larger crisis, but rather an active and decisive agent of introducing the final solution to the crisis and the emerging international order. In this connection, our external and internal policies are becoming increasingly peace-oriented and development-focused. So far Croatia has been successful in dealing with the question of its statehood and the right of small nations to full self-determination, as well as in defending these rights within the framework of and through the United Nations. We are enormously grateful to this noble institution and its associated agencies, and especially to those Member States whose sons and daughters are exposed to risk, in some cases giving their lives, in a noble endeavour to assist us in ending the horrific war of aggression against our country and in the wider region. Croatia has played host to one of the largest, most expensive and complex peacekeeping operations in the history of the United Nations. Croatia’s Government and people, the hundreds of thousands of displaced persons and refugees in particular, have on many occasions been critical of the ineffectiveness and ambiguity of peacekeeping mandates. Today, however, the war has ended, and we are finally coming to terms with all of the political, economic and procedural constraints which the international community had to overcome in order to 23 properly react to the aggression, the calamity of war and the diplomatic uncertainty resulting from the breakup of the communist federation of Yugoslavia and the security vacuum resulting from the closure of the cold-war era. Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina indeed paid a high price for their struggle to ensure their survival, alongside the progressive efforts of the international community to develop a new concept of the United Nations and other international mechanisms for the peaceful resolution of conflicts. However, we believe that our experience has given a very positive impetus to the intrinsic need to reform the general concept of peacekeeping operations, the work of the Security Council and the changes in the regional, political and security systems in Europe as well. Even though the mandate of the joint peacekeeping forces in Croatia has not yet ended — 5,000 peacekeepers are still working in the Croatian Danubian area — I wish to convey to the Assembly the optimism of my Government for the successful completion of the mandate of the United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium (UNTAES) there. This operation just may become the most successful peacekeeping operation in recent history, and perhaps rightfully so, given our own and international frustrations with the unsuccessful attempt at peacekeeping and peacemaking in the region so far. The successful completion of the UNTAES operation is becoming ever more likely given the recent signing of an agreement on normalization of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the establishment of a new balance in the region, the same balance that helped the international community forge the Dayton Peace Agreement. We are grateful to all Member States that supported our appeals and calls in the General Assembly for universal respect of international law — as reflected, for instance, in General Assembly resolution 49/43, which created the political conditions and legal framework for the peaceful reintegration of Eastern Slavonia. We are also grateful to Member States whose diplomats and soldiers are more directly involved in the successful implementation of the UNTAES mandate. Thanks in part to General Assembly support for the universal principles enshrined in the Charter and in part to the intervention of United Nations peacekeeping forces, the countries which emerged following the dissolution of the former Yugoslavia are now increasingly heading towards the objective of peacefully resolving mutual problems on a bilateral basis and through regular multilateral contacts, thereby lessening the need for international involvement and mediation. Those problems include the succession to the former State; regional security arrangements and arms control; the search for missing persons; reciprocal minority rights; and the reestablishment of bilateral economic, cultural and other forms of cooperation. The successful expansion of bilateral neighbourly relations based on internationally accepted principles cannot be replaced by the imposition of superfluous and ambitious regional associations. Taking account of this new reality, in which Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are prepared to resolve all their outstanding problems on a bilateral basis as two equal and sovereign States, the need for the continued presence of peacekeeping forces in Croatia has come to an end. Any further extension of the UNTAES mandate in Croatia can only encourage delays in its implementation and place at risk the most critical aspect of the mandate: the return of 80,000 Croatian and non-Serb refugees and displaced persons to the region. The continued lack of tangible progress in this area could induce internal and external instability; this is a matter which my Government and the international community should seek to avoid at all costs. For this reason, the clear stance of my Government is that the peaceful integration of the region under the present UNTAES mandate should be completed on schedule. With the signature of the normalization agreement between Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the small United Nations Mission of Observers in Prevlaka, Croatia, will also become obsolete in the foreseeable future. Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have agreed that the issue of Prevlaka is to be dealt with and fully resolved as a security matter, in accordance with the United Nations Charter and the policy of good-neighbourliness. Therefore, there shall be no further raising of the question of territorial adjustments between Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the Prevlaka peninsula, the five-century-old boundary line between Croatia and Montenegro. However, there is a need to establish a security regime there through peaceful negotiations with a view to the mutual benefit of cross-border economic cooperation. 24 On the basis of the new reality, Croatia’s foreign and internal policy priorities will now aim at compatibility with and timely integration into European regional organizations. At the same time, we remain cognizant of our responsibilities in respect of the peaceful and successful stabilization of neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which Croats are one of the three constituent peoples. The process of the internal stabilization of Bosnia and Herzegovina will take years and, in this regard, Croatia is fully open to cooperation and collaboration with the international community. The community’s presence and assistance there has been significantly less costly to it thanks to Croatia’s resources and contributions. Following the initial reconstruction assistance for Bosnia and Herzegovina, an economically viable Croatian State can make the greatest contribution to the viability of the Bosnian Federation and to Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. Croatia is prepared to recognize the results of every democratic political process between the three constituent nations and the two entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and will continue to give its full support to the successful implementation of the Federation Agreements. Croatia, fully supportive of a properly balanced Federation as defined at Dayton — the 1—2—3 formula: one State, two entities, three constituent peoples — seeks not only to ensure the survival of the Bosnian Croats as a constituent people in all respects, but also to avoid any situation that could lead to a threatening instability in the region as a whole. In that sense, any attempts to change the constitutional definition of the Federation or to achieve the same results through institutional or power-sharing arrangements are unacceptable to the Republic of Croatia as a party to the relevant Agreements. The same applies to any attempts to change the present entities settlement through an over-centralization of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Any territorial adjustment at the expense of Bosnia and Herzegovina or its two entities shall be viewed as highly detrimental to the stability of the region in general and considered a threat to Croatia’s security. As Croatia continues to move to reestablish its European way of life, while at the same time bringing its young democracy and its governance into conformity with the new European democratic reality, constructive criticism of its actions and attitudes will continue to be taken in good faith. By now, we have accepted the fact that, owing to the needs of the multilateral crisis-management process in the region, the standards set for Croatia in many areas of democratic development are much higher than for other countries in transition. Croatia’s extraordinary openness to the innumerable institutions that monitor developments on our soil, especially in the field of human rights, attests to the transparency of our policy and to our deep commitment to democratic values, tolerance and individual rights. In renewing our expressions of gratitude to the United Nations for its contribution to the successful resolution of an act of aggression against a Member State, we should like to express the readiness of our country, which now has a wealth of experience in peace-mediation efforts behind it, to contribute actively to similar United Nations efforts outside our region. We should now like to become active in the other regular activities of the United Nations and regional mechanisms, to which we offer our experience and experts, to further the common interests and ideals of the Charter of the United Nations. Croatia is actively following the reform process of the United Nations system, and actively participates in some aspects of reform. We fully recognize the need to reorganize the system and adapt it to the changing international system. New objectives are already clearly defined in the socio-economic sphere, and the area of human rights in particular. The United Nations is faced with new realities and problems centred around its goal of promoting the rights of the individual while preserving the identity of groups and nations and respecting the sovereignty of Member States. We are following with particular interest the process of resolving the financial crisis of the United Nations. As a small State that has experienced exceptional financial needs and shortfalls over the past five years, Croatia supports efforts to find a more equitable scale of assessment for Member States that are experiencing extraordinary situations and whose capacity to pay has, accordingly, changed significantly. Croatia has already spoken in favour of reforming and strengthening the United Nations system, and especially the Security Council. Our position takes into account new realities in which economic powers such as Germany and Japan, but also individual regions and States — and their views — must be more justly represented. Therefore, Croatia firmly supports the expansion of the Council to 25 members in both categories of membership. Greater transparency in the work of the Council is also essential, and should be achieved through the adoption of new rules of procedure. The Organization will also be strengthened by the present 25 discussions on changes in general procedures, that will, inter alia, reduce and rationalize the costs of overlapping activities of various United Nations institutions. We especially support efforts to rationalize and restructure the socio-economic sector of the United Nations so that it can continue to achieve its rightly ambitious goals around the world. In its post-war foreign policy and economic activities, Croatia will firstly associate with countries on its continent, but will also strive towards diversification of its relations. Croatia wishes actively to contribute to the promotion of the common interests of small and, especially, new States. We are pleased to note that apart from the trend towards institutionalizing regional development and functional cooperation, we are entering an era in which States are increasing their level of cooperation, through multilateral diplomacy, on basic development questions, such as: the environment; developing the laws of the sea; enforcing international humanitarian law; protecting human and minority rights; protecting the rights of women and children; promoting disarmament and non-proliferation; and sharing knowledge and resources to help the development of the Third World. We are, therefore, passing over old ideologies, religious or regional affiliation and loyalties. One area in which Croatia will be especially active is the establishment of the international criminal court. We will be one of the sponsors of a draft resolution calling for the timely establishment of this institution. The world we live in is entering a stage of national individualization but also of ever-closer functional cooperation between States in creating a stable and interdependent new order. Croatia, as a young State that still harbours painfully fresh memories of its struggle for its identity, freedom and right to economic development, sincerely wishes to contribute to the establishment of this new order by actively helping to find solutions to other crisis points, development problems, and disproportions in contemporary societies around the world.﻿It is with great pleasure that I extend my delegation’s heartfelt congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. We are deeply gratified to see an eminent representative of a brotherly neighbouring country and fellow member of the Association of South- East Asian Nations (ASEAN) preside over our sessions. Your election to this high office is also a well-deserved recognition of your personal qualities and professional accomplishments, as well as of the role and stature of Malaysia in regional and global affairs. May I also extend our felicitations to your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, for so ably presiding over the historic fiftieth session. Let me avail myself of this opportunity to pay tribute to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for his many accomplishments, his untiring efforts in the cause of peace and development and the sagacity with which he is steering the Organization during these challenging times. During the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations last year, we noted a resurgence of hope and optimism in the international community as we reviewed the achievements of the world Organization, made in spite of the many constraints with which it has been saddled. We renewed our determination to strengthen the United Nations and rededicated ourselves to the vision of world peace that inspired its founding, as well as to the ideals and principles enshrined in its Charter. That act of rededication was timely and necessary. For, since the demise of the cold war, the world has been in the grip of massive changes that have given rise to new challenges and contradictory trends in international relations. At the same time, new vistas have emerged and a deepening sense of interdependence has prompted nations to devise more realistic and more mutually beneficial patterns of cooperation. Yet, while these developments have revived expectations of a more peaceful and secure world, the acute reality is that our planet is still far from being a peaceful place. Violent conflicts continue to embroil many regions of the globe. Nation States and international institutions are frantically struggling to adjust to drastically changed and changing political and economic circumstances. Weapons of mass destruction still pose a potent threat of worldwide catastrophe. In view of all these, it is no wonder that, after a momentary resurgence of hope, we are again being overtaken by a sense of frustration and common vulnerability. The primordial challenge of our time, therefore, is to devise a more effective system of global governance in order to manage the demands and the vicissitudes of globalization and interdependence. As emphasized in a statement recently issued by 16 Heads of State or Government, including the President of Indonesia, nations should rise from their immediate concerns, focus on their common long-term interests and break new ground. Constructive initiatives are needed, and multilateralism has to be reasserted and strengthened. Not even global cooperation, however, can meet the needs and expectations of people without a stronger United Nations to give coherence to such cooperation. World governance, therefore, in order to be effective and acceptable to all, must be fashioned with the United Nations as its principal mechanism and source of legitimacy. The revitalization of this international institution through a comprehensive process of restructuring and democratization of its major organs and functions has therefore become imperative. It is of pivotal importance that the General Assembly, the highest deliberative and decision-making organ within the United Nations system, should function effectively. Indeed, strengthening the role of the General Assembly is a basic premise of the current process of United Nations reform and revitalization. 9 Just as crucial is the reform of the Security Council so as to allow it to reflect contemporary realities and to accommodate the interests and concerns of developing countries, which comprise the overwhelming majority of the Organization. It is an anachronism and a gross anomaly that Europe is overrepresented, Asia underrepresented and Africa and Latin America not represented at all on the Council’s roster of permanent members. In our view, new permanent members should be chosen on the basis not only of equitable geographic representation, but also of such criteria as political, economic and demographic weight, their capability and proven track record of contributing to the promotion of peace, security and development, both regionally and globally, and their commitment to assuming responsibilities inherent to permanent membership. The Economic and Social Council is now being revitalized so that it will have a more dynamic relationship with the General Assembly and other United Nations bodies. Yet, regrettably, it is still unable effectively to fulfil its crucial role, notably in helping United Nations Members adjust to the complex demands of globalization. The reforms and adjustments that the Economic and Social Council is undergoing should be further strengthened to enhance its cooperation not only with other United Nations bodies but also with such important international agencies as the Bretton Woods institutions. All these efforts to revitalize, reform and democratize the United Nations, however, will come to naught if in the end the United Nations is paralysed by financial insolvency. If the current financial plight of the United Nations continues — and it will continue as long as certain major Member States refuse to remit their legally-obligated contributions — there is a real danger that peacekeeping operations will collapse and many endeavours to maintain peace and security will be compromised. The very functioning of the United Nations itself could be severely undermined and the purposes of the reform process seriously jeopardized. No organization can be reformed by starving it. Ironically, the countries that are pressing the hardest for cutbacks and reforms have themselves refused to finance the new austerity budget. For more than five decades the United Nations and related institutions have been engaged in an immense array of activities that touch every aspect of people’s lives all over the world. If those vital statistics, too, must be terminated because of the Organization’s insolvency, that would constitute an enormous human tragedy. Nuclear arsenals of enormously destructive power continue to pose a threat to all life on Earth. We believe that the time has come for the Conference on Disarmament to establish a special committee for negotiations on a programme of nuclear disarmament and the ultimate elimination of all nuclear weapons within a definite time-frame. In this regard, it is my hope that the recent Advisory Opinion of the International Court of Justice on the illegality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons will serve as a catalyst towards this end. The 10 countries of South-East Asia recently made a substantive contribution to the cause of nuclear disarmament. During the historic Bangkok summit of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), the seven ASEAN leaders, together with the leaders of Laos, Cambodia and Myanmar, signed the Treaty on the South- East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone. ASEAN is now working for the Treaty’s early entry into force. We hope that the nuclear Powers will soon endorse the Treaty by acceding to its Protocol. Thus, with the conclusion of Treaties for nuclear-weapon-free zones in South-East Asia and Africa, in addition to the Antarctic, Rarotonga and Tlatelolco Treaties, a large segment of the southern hemisphere should become free of the nuclear menace. As for chemical weapons, I am pleased to inform the General Assembly that Indonesia is now at the final stage of the process of ratifying the Chemical Weapons Convention. Another positive development was the signing a few days ago of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) after two and a half years of arduous negotiations in the Conference on Disarmament. Indeed, for the past three decades, the international community unceasingly stressed the need for such a treaty in an endeavour to stem the horizontal and vertical proliferation of nuclear weapons. The Treaty outlaws nuclear-test explosions by all States in all environments for all time, ensures that the ban is effective and verifiable and provides new ground for the realization of the objectives set by the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Having become a reality through broad compromises, however, the Treaty is still a far cry from the CTBT long-envisioned by the international community. It still allows the most sophisticated form of nuclear-weapon testing: simulation. In a strict sense, therefore, it is not truly comprehensive, nor does it directly address the issue of nuclear disarmament. But it does limit the nuclear-arms race by making it more difficult for countries to develop or improve their arsenals. Moreover, humankind cannot afford to dispense with the CTBT, imperfect as it may be. Our collective 10 experience in the disarmament endeavour has been that, if we pass over an existing opportunity in favour of a better one that is yet to be, we suffer a costly delay and possibly an irretrievable setback. Having signed the Treaty on that basis, Indonesia fervently hopes that it will eventually be supported by the entire membership and thereby become an effective instrument to enable us to move towards the total elimination of nuclear weapons. Focal points of conflict still persist in many parts of the globe. In the Middle East, the peace process is on the verge of collapse as a highly volatile and explosive situation in the Israeli-occupied Arab territories threatens once more to engulf the region in all-too-familiar violence and bloodshed, which we had hoped had become part of the past. Israel’s provocative action of opening a new entrance to the tunnel along the Western Wall of the Al-Aqsa Mosque has triggered a violent confrontation, resulting in death and injuries to scores of civilians. Further aggravating the situation is the unprecedented armed clash between the Israeli army and the Palestinian police. These are but the latest manifestations of a rapid deterioration of the situation due to Israel’s reneging on its previous commitments and its blatant backtracking on its obligations under the 1993 Declaration of Principles and subsequent agreements. Israel must be prevailed upon to honour the Declaration of Principles and its subsequent agreements and to resume negotiations in earnest on the remaining issues and the final status of the occupied territories, including Jerusalem. Once again, we emphasize that progress on the Israeli-Syrian and Israeli-Lebanese tracks of the negotiations, attended by unconditional withdrawal of Israel from the Syrian Golan Heights and southern Lebanon, constitutes a conditio sine qua non for comprehensive and lasting peace in the region. The recent elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, made possible by the cessation of hostilities as a result of the Dayton and Paris peace Agreements, have brought the country nearer to reconciliation and paved the way for the creation of durable national institutions. However, we are concerned that, especially in the Serb-held areas, the results of the election may lead to the legitimizing of ethnic separation. It is therefore incumbent upon the international community to ensure the unity and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a multicultural, multi-ethnic and multireligious society. For the peace Agreement to be implementable, obstructions to freedom of movement must be removed and refugees allowed freely to return to their homes. Bosnian Serb leaders must yield their illicit control over segments of the population and territory of the country. The parties to the peace Agreement must ensure that those indicted by the International Tribunal are brought to justice. In the Gulf region, we have recently witnessed unilateral military action by extraregional Powers interfering with the internal affairs of a Member State of the United Nations. My delegation wishes to reiterate its firm commitment to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, in this case Iraq. Actions that are inconsistent with these basic norms and principles of inter-State relations, which are enshrined in the United Nations Charter, are clearly unacceptable. I should also like to seize this occasion to urge Iraq to comply fully with all relevant Security Council resolutions. Earlier this month, almost a quarter of a century of conflict in the southern Philippines came to a peaceful end with the signing of a peace agreement between the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and the Moro National Liberation Front, with Indonesia serving as facilitator on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference Ministerial Committee of the Six. This positive development, which will bring peace and prosperity to the southern Philippines, also constitutes another important step towards the realization of a politically stable, socially cohesive and economically progressive South-East Asia that is increasingly able to deal with its own problems in its own way. We are now living in an era of globalization and interdependence, an era replete with challenges but also full of promise. How it came about is no mystery. It had been creeping up on us for quite some time, the consequence of rapid advances in science and technology, particularly in communications and transport. The end of the cold war and the dismantling of the barriers of bloc politics and ideological contention unleashed the full force of globalization. Since then, global trade and production have been boosted to new heights while goods, people and capital are moving from one country to another more freely than ever. Globalization has thus raised the hopes of humankind with visions of a new world of opportunities and more equitable prosperity. These hopes are not without foundation. In a global economy that is gradually recovering from recession, the developed countries, according to the 1996 Economic and Social Survey, have shown average gross-national-product growth rates of two per cent. The developing countries have registered a significant 6 per cent growth while the economic dynamos of East and South-East Asia have been credited with a stunning 8 per cent growth. These are the trade-driven economies that have benefited most from globalization. Yet, the apprehensions about globalization are equally justified. In an external environment over which developing countries have very little control, globalization could widen the prosperity gap between the developed and the developing countries. The fact that globalization can also lead to disaster was demonstrated not too long ago when the global operations of financial markets led to instability and volatility that sent shock waves through the monetary systems of developing countries. In their efforts to integrate themselves into the global economy, many developing countries have found it necessary to make structural adjustments that too often entail exorbitant social and human costs. Moreover, globalization has not mitigated and may have, on the contrary, exacerbated the inequities and imbalances in international economic relations. Bereft of a favourable external environment for their national development efforts, many developing countries continue to languish in poverty, backwardness, stagnation and even negative economic growth. Every year, 13 to 18 million people, mostly children in developing countries, die from hunger and poverty-related causes. Meanwhile, the developing countries remain marginalized from the international decision-making processes that would fashion global solutions to the global economic problems that afflict them. The poignant experience of the past three and a half decades teaches us that these problems cannot be solved through palliatives and piecemeal reforms. Since the major problems of development are global in nature, they can only be effectively dealt with through a new global partnership for development involving all countries, of both the developed North and the developing South, on the basis of mutual interest and equitable sharing of benefits and responsibility. It has been more than two years since the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations, but the promise of an equitable, transparent and rule-based multilateral trading system, as embodied in the World Trade Organization (WTO), has yet to be realized. Moreover, we are alarmed at the tendency of some developed countries to resort to a new form of protectionism in the guise of linking labour standards and other social and environmental concerns to trade. Such efforts will not only harm the developing countries, but will also ultimately debilitate the WTO itself. We therefore call upon all trading partners to refrain from overloading the agenda of the first Ministerial Meeting of the WTO in Singapore this coming December with issues extraneous to trade. Let us together nurture the WTO as the guardian of a predictable, non-discriminatory multilateral trading system and the guarantor of the rights of the weaker trading partner against unilateral and arbitrary actions by the strong. In this context, we share the concern expressed by the international community at the practice of some countries of promulgating national laws with extraterritorial application that adversely impact on the legitimate interests of other countries. We cannot accept the imposition of the law of the strong in place of dialogue and negotiation. No one country, no matter how powerful, should be allowed unilaterally to regulate the lives of other sovereign countries. The biggest single deterrent to development in many of the world’s poorest countries is the crushing effect of their debt burdens. Indonesia has long advocated a set of principles for managing the debt problem, calling for a “once-and-for-all” settlement of the debt problems of developing countries, including multilateral debts, as well as the cancellation of the debts of the most severely affected, low-income developing countries. In this context, we welcome and support the joint proposal of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which offers effective alternatives for reducing the overall debt burdens of heavily indebted poor countries to sustainable levels. While this initiative could be further refined, it is Indonesia’s fervent hope that, at the forthcoming meetings of the World Bank and the IMF, this proposal will finally receive the support that it needs and deserves from the developed countries. In this context, I am encouraged by the developments at the IMF meetings in Washington today. Social development and social justice remain elusive dreams for millions of impoverished people throughout the world. Indonesia shares that dream and abides by the commitments it assumed at the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen and the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, both of which were held last year. We have indeed dedicated ... We have, indeed, dedicated ourselves to the proposition that people should not only be the 12 beneficiaries of development but should also be given every opportunity to become the authors of their own development. At the same time we should address, through concrete and concerted international action, the problem of the global trade in illicit drugs and other forms of transnational crime. Above all, we must continue to address the problems of poverty and underdevelopment, and we must commit ourselves fully to genuine partnership. This century that is about to end will perhaps be remembered for both the cruelty of its wars and the tremendous achievements that it has seen in science and technology — although it is not for these achievements that we should be proud of it. To my mind, what makes this century special is the fact that during this time the human race truly began to nurture the idea that poverty is not an inevitable part of the human condition, but that it can be conquered and wiped off the face of the Earth. We have the natural resources and the mental and organizational capacity to succeed at that task. The question has always been whether we have the political will to do it, and whether we are concerned and enlightened enough to form an equitable global partnership for development — for a concerted struggle against poverty that will give a deeper and brighter meaning to globalization and interdependence. The answer, I believe, is largely in the hands of the General Assembly. ﻿It is a great pleasure for me, at this fifty-first session of the General Assembly, to congratulate you on your election. Your wealth of experience in international affairs, your professional skills and your great diplomatic qualities are, for me and my country, a guarantee that our work will be successful. I would like to include in these very sincere congratulations the other officers of the Assembly, whom we have just elected. I wish them all every success in the important and delicate tasks that lie ahead. I should also like express our gratitude to and admiration for the President of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, whose very successful term of office has just come to an end. He did sterling work in ensuring the prestige of the numerous and highly symbolic events that marked the fiftieth anniversary of this Organization. He gave great impetus to the extensive discussions within the General Assembly on strengthening the United Nations system and on the question of equitable representation on the and increase in the membership of the Security Council and other matters related to the Council. Suggestions were made by the delegation of Monaco with regard, notably, to the increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent members of the Council. They appear in annex 11 of the report of the working group established to that end. I should also like to take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General for his efforts to make our Organization less costly and more effective. In a particularly difficult political and economic situation, he has never failed in the mission we entrusted to him five years ago. I referred just now to the difficulties of our times. These are major difficulties and often seem insurmountable, at least in the short term. Many factors, sometimes very different but broadly connected, exacerbate these difficulties. The major world conferences on population and development, on social development and on human settlements clearly brought these factors to light. If the sustainable and harmonious development we aspire to is to apply to all human beings, we must also try to preserve the resources of our planet so that future generations do not find themselves totally destitute one day. In a vital area for us, the Principality of Monaco has been striving for nearly a century to promote the preservation of oceans and seas and the priceless resources they provide, through studies and research, but also by taking specific national and international initiatives. Accordingly, Monaco ratified the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and intends in 7 1998 to play an active role, commensurate with our size and resources, during the International Year of the Ocean. The General Assembly, five years after the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, wisely decided pursuant to resolution 50/113 to hold a special session to consider and review the implementation of Agenda 21. This will be an extremely important session. We hope it will give us an opportunity to reinforce the objectives spelt out at Rio de Janeiro in June 1992. The Principality of Monaco is pleased to host next year’s seventh session of the High-Level Advisory Board on Sustainable Development and then the International Whaling Commission. My country is thus showing our interest in the international cooperation which is essential if we are to address the confrontation between legitimate economic development and protection of the environment and the non-renewal natural resources of our planet. Other major concerns which seriously impede development remain. No continent is spared the tensions felt around the world, which pose a serious threat. Our Organization does not always have the means needed to face up to these challenges and to the most alarming situations. Nevertheless, we welcomed the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which is finally open for signature and which I will have the honour to sign during this session on behalf of the Principality of Monaco. Might I refer here to the major role played by the International Atomic Energy Agency which so ably and so carefully monitors compliance with the safeguards agreements concluded in the framework of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which the Principality of Monaco has ratified. Together with this, the Agency very scrupulously seeks to apply, sometimes in very delicate circumstances, the decisions of the Security Council in this respect. Its responsibilities in the field of disarmament are very substantial. Monaco is therefore particularly proud to be the home of the Marine Environment Laboratory, which functions with the assistance of the United Nations Environment Programme and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission. Furthermore, my delegation has been following very closely the follow-up to resolution 50/75, of which our Principality was one of the sponsors, and which the General Assembly adopted on 12 December 1995. The strengthening of security and cooperation in the Mediterranean is of concern to us, as it is of concern to neighbouring friendly countries on both sides of the Sea. The Secretary-General has embarked on valuable consultations in this respect, and for this we thank him very sincerely. When wars break out, once the weapons have fallen silent, the painful aftermath remains, including millions of landmines, which have a devastating, extremely deadly effect, scattered in fields and under roads and have a massive impact on civilian populations, primarily on children. At the human level, the proliferation of these devices causes serious, often incurable, mutilation and major material damage. The Security Council’s 15 August 1996 discussions on demining in the context of peace- keeping operations highlighted, if there were any need to do so, the importance that the United Nations and the major Powers attach to this question. His Serene Highness, the Sovereign Prince of Monaco, my father, is no less mindful of this. He has requested his Government to provide regular financial assistance to demining operations by contributing to the fund set up by the United Nations for that purpose. Without offering an immediate, complete solution, a moratorium — or, even better, cessation — on the production and export of these anti-personnel landmines would give us some hope. This year saw the holding of the twenty-sixth Olympic Games. Men and women from 197 countries and territories, from very different backgrounds, came together and tested their strength. They fought peacefully and, with mutual respect and esteem, created imperishable bonds. I was there as Chairman of the Monaco Olympic Committee and as a member of the International Olympic Committee, and I can attest to the unique spirit which every four years brings together the world’s best athletes. I wish to pay tribute to them. They are an irreplaceable example for the young people of our nations. I think it is right, here, to echo the appeal made by many organizations that there be more women representing their countries at the Olympic Games, and that traditions, however worthy of respect, do not become discrimination against women in the area of sport. The cooperation that has grown up between the United Nations and the Olympic Movement, which share lofty universal principles and values, gives me great hope. 8 Our General Assembly regularly bolsters this cooperation in its resolutions, and I hope that the same will happen this year. These athletic, dynamic and devoted young people often work as volunteers for the United Nations and non- governmental humanitarian organizations, and they deserve our heartfelt gratitude. I wish too to recall the World Programme of Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond, adopted last year by the General Assembly in resolution 50/81. We must take account of its recommendations in every area, particularly those of education, employment, health, the environment, and ensuring full, effective participation of women in the life of society and in the decision-making process. The Principality of Monaco, which ratified the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and is a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, is very concerned by contemporary forms of racism and marginalization. We encourage the efforts of the United Nations and the Special Rapporteur on this subject. We are also seriously alarmed by the development and scale of child prostitution and the trade in young girls and boys. An important initiative was taken last August by a non-governmental organization, End Child Prostitution in Asian Tourism, with the assistance of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the Government of Sweden. We must all heed the work of the world Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children. I am sure that the conclusions and recommendations of this Congress, in the form of an agenda for action, will raise our consciousness about the seriousness of the situation by encouraging States to adopt the necessary national and international measures. By participating in the Congress, Monaco showed its commitment to a world policy to combat the commercial sexual exploitation of children. On the national level, this is taking the form of unreserved support for humanitarian associations and non-governmental organizations that are active in this area and, in particular for their efforts to sensitize others to this scourge, to prevent it and to rehabilitate its victims. We are also introducing a legislative initiative which should lead to a change in Monaco’s penal code before the end of the year, with the introduction a new crime: the sexual exploitation of children for the satisfaction of the vices of others, whether these events occur in the Principality of Monaco or outside our national territory. Once this law is in effect, any person apprehended in Monaco who has committed, in any place whatsoever, acts that can be qualified as crimes or attacks against decency or morality according to the laws of Monaco as regards minors, can be prosecuted and tried. I would add that the international community must also think about strengthening international legal protections in this area, in so far as existing texts, including the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child, particularly its articles 19 and 21, often remain inoperative because they are difficult to apply. Similarly, the 1926 Slavery Convention, the 1956 Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, and the 1949 Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others, which are very general in scope, do not provide sufficiently effective, speedy recourse in this particular area, where emergency action is necessary. The strengthening of this protection in the form of a multilateral instrument, for instance, could permit judicial prosecution to go beyond national borders and for the illicit commerce in children and their commercial sexual exploitation to be categorized as crimes against humanity, that is, that they be considered indefensible under the Convention on the Non-applicability of Statutory Limitations to War Crimes and Crimes against Humanity of 26 November 1968. Article 1 of that Convention should thus be modified appropriately. Like those stipulated in the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, these acts should not meet with a refusal to extradite. The law, and international law, should be fully capable of protecting these weak, destitute beings, while leaving no chance of impunity for the perpetrators of these vile crimes. In addition to strengthening legal protections, we should also give some thought to the steps needed to rehabilitate these young victims, as broadly emphasized by the Stockholm Congress; without such rehabilitation, that these children would fall back into prostitution circles might prove inevitable. Although some of the behaviours I have just mentioned are intolerable and unacceptable, I wish now to speak of the United Nations Year for Tolerance, which ended in December 1995. Adopted in December 1993 thanks to a welcome initiative by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, and supported by a unanimous resolution of 9 the General Assembly, this manifestation of faith in humankind, concluded with a Declaration and Plan of Action that were designed to inspire not only high-level politicians, but each of us in our daily lives. In keeping with General Assembly resolution 49/213, the Follow-Up Plan of Action for the United Nations Year for Tolerance, accompanied by the Declaration of Principles that preceded it and that inspires it (A/51/201), is before this year’s session of the General Assembly. It invites us to make a common effort to combat political and social factors which often seem to be at the origin of intolerance and hatred. This invitation should receive the proper response, for it could contribute to providing solutions to the tensions that persist in the world, some of which, as we know, are extremely disquieting. Throughout history, the most important moments of progress have certainly occurred during periods of real and profound tolerance. Such tolerance favoured thought, the arts, the sciences, the sharing of knowledge and values. It built civilizations and enabled them to draw together and mutually enrich one another in an exceptional way. While many today are convinced that history probably has no meaning, it remains none the less a fragile and precious commodity, largely fashioned by the commitments and the will of man. On 8 January next year we shall commemorate the seven-hundredth anniversary of the establishment of my family’s dynasty in Monaco. In celebration of that event, many cultural and artistic events, some on an international scale, will take place throughout 1997. This will be our way of paying a tribute to our past as well as of expressing our confidence and faith in the future and destiny, not only of our country, but of mankind. On that note, I should like to conclude my statement by thanking the President very much for having allowed me to speak.   ﻿I wish to extend to President Razali Ismail Ecuador’s warm congratulations on his election, which is a tribute to his valuable contributions to the work of our world Organization in his capacity as Permanent Representative of Malaysia. I wish also to convey our thanks to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session, for the fruitful work he accomplished. I wish to express to the delegation of Bulgaria the heartfelt condolences of the Government of Ecuador for the irreparable loss it has suffered with the killing of former Prime Minister Lukanov. Our condolences go also to the family and friends of that eminent man. On the threshold of the twenty-first century, we remain immersed in a process of profound change on the international scene, resulting from the end of the ideological confrontation between East and West. We are seeing the emergence of new opportunities for peace- building, for the strengthening of development, for the diffusion of democracy and for stepped-up international cooperation, especially politically. Ecuador believes that we should take maximum advantage of these positive factors and use them as a basis on which to devise the most ambitious programme possible for the coming years, with the goal of a world of equity and justice, a world in which future generations can live well, in secure conditions, at peace with themselves and with the environment on which their very survival depends. In these circumstances, the essential objective of our Organization, as established in the Charter, remains the same: the maintenance of international peace and security. To attain this objective, it is imperative that all Member States reaffirm their faith in the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter. Most fundamentally, this means banning the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or the political independence of any State, as well as the obligation to settle international disputes exclusively by peaceful means. The larger goal of international security should be seen as embracing the political, economic and social conditions in which all nations develop. While the danger of worldwide nuclear destruction has receded, Ecuador continues to maintain that preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons is not an end in itself, but an intermediate step towards the ultimate objective of totally banning and completely destroying all nuclear weapons. Ecuador regrets that the Conference on Disarmament was unable to adopt by consensus the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). It takes the view, however, that the text supported by most States, which has been endorsed by the General Assembly and opened for signature by States, is an important step towards that objective. Ecuador has signed that instrument. Although it is not the ideal instrument for which the Conference on Disarmament was striving, it would be a mistake to start this long and arduous process all over again. Ecuador will also continue to work for 21 general and complete disarmament, which will eliminate once and for all the grave danger inherent in weapons of mass destruction and end the squandering of scarce national resources on weapons. Ecuador voted in favour of resolution 49/75 K, by which the General Assembly requested the International Court of Justice to issue an Advisory Opinion as to whether international law authorizes the threat or use of nuclear weapons in any circumstances. We welcome the Court’s unanimous finding that “There is in neither customary nor conventional international law any specific authorization of the threat or use of nuclear weapons.” The finding also states that “A threat or use of force by means of nuclear weapons that is contrary to Article 2, paragraph 4, of the United Nations Charter and that fails to meet all the requirements of Article 51, is unlawful.” In its finding, the Court also expresses the view that “There exists an obligation to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control.” The Government of Ecuador believes that the General Assembly should endorse these views, which form a basis for the continued work of the international community to bring about the definitive banning of nuclear weapons. Terrorism in all its forms and manifestations; organized international crime; and the production, consumption and trafficking of all illicit drugs continue to pose grave threats that undermine international stability and the security and well-being of society in general. To eradicate these evils, we need a coordinated and persistent international effort in which all States should be involved, in accordance with their capacity and with their degree of responsibility. In this regard, Ecuador is complying appropriately with its obligations. We are currently experiencing the rapid globalization and interdependence of the world economy, which requires the adoption of rational domestic policies and a favourable international economic environment. At present, the promotion of economic development is reflected in the liberalization of trade agreements and the establishment of an open multilateral commercial system. This new state of affairs has favourable effects; however, in certain circumstances, it produces adverse consequences. For that reason it is imperative that policies and the international environment be structured so as to derive maximum benefit from these trends and minimize the negative effects. Ecuador is mindful of this situation, but would also like to stress the need, as expressed by the Heads of State and Government in the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, to “Invigorate the dialogue and partnership between all countries in order to secure the existence of a favourable political and economic environment for the promotion of international cooperation for development based on the imperatives of mutual benefit and interest and genuine interdependence, while recognizing that each country is ultimately responsible for its own development”. (resolution 50/6, para. 8) In this regard, direct foreign investment in developing countries is particular important because it accelerates the economic process to the benefit of both the investors and of the recipient economies. The United Nations should continue to be an important catalyst in support of the economic and social development of the developing countries and of the disadvantaged and marginalized sectors. The world Organization has sponsored global conferences to address vital problems related to the environment, population, social development, crime, the advancement of women, the protection of the family, human settlements, trade and development, and public administration. The recommendations and initiatives adopted at those conferences have set genuine priorities for the international community in the promotion of development. Nevertheless, what has been achieved to date in many of these fields is still uneven and insufficient. Therefore, Ecuador reaffirms that, in order to effectively implement these decisions, there needs to be a rapid mobilization of the resources for development, as well as a more efficient use of those resources. Without such an international commitment, all the conferences’ recommendations and other similar pronouncements will only enlarge the overloaded archives of our foreign ministries. Given the persistence of such environmental problems as the lack of drinking water, threats to biological diversity, the depletion of the ozone layer, the warming of the atmosphere, the diminishing soil productivity, desertification and diminishing food security, 22 Governments of both industrialized and developing countries must take joint, concerted action. Ecuador, faithful to its democratic traditions, has recently provided an example of a transparent electoral process and of respect for the popular will. As a result, President Abdalá Bucaram was elected to lead the country, and for the first time in Ecuadorian history, a woman, Mrs. Rosal'a Arteaga, has been elected Vice-President of the Republic. The new Administration’s first and principal actions are focused on social policies, especially on combating poverty and on a wide-ranging national programme of low-cost housing. Given its faith in the will of the people, Ecuador welcomes the growing trend towards democratization: more and more countries have adopted multi-party systems, organized free and fair elections and begun to transform themselves into more open and participative societies. However, Ecuador also believes that this process does not happen spontaneously but requires the understanding and support of the international community so as to create and sustain conditions conducive to such changes. In other words, democracy and hunger are antithetical elements that cannot exist together. The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action — which is steadily gaining practical force and effectiveness — reaffirm the solemn commitment of all States to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms. The interrelationship between human rights, democracy and development articulated in that Declaration and Programme, calls for a comprehensive and global approach to ensure the promotion and protection of human rights. In the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, the Heads of State and Government reaffirmed that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated. They made a commitment, among other things, to protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms; to strengthen laws, policies and programmes to secure the full and equal participation of women in all spheres of political, civil, economic, social and cultural life; to promote and protect the rights of the child; to ensure protection of the rights of people who are particularly vulnerable, including young people, the disabled, the elderly and migrant workers; and to promote and protect the rights of indigenous populations. Ecuador considers that human rights has become one of the most important spheres of United Nations action. It supports the work of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in his efforts to carry out this broad and important programme of activities. It should be recalled that economic and social problems are not restricted to the most disadvantaged countries. A number of societies are seriously threatened by increasing external debt, the instability of the international financial system, persistent unemployment, intractable poverty and increasingly destructive waves of crime and corruption. The inequality gap between developed and developing countries remains unacceptably large and continues to widen. More than 1 billion people lack drinking water, and 1.7 billion do not have access to proper health facilities. This means that poverty continues to affect more than one fifth of the world’s population. Hunger, malnutrition, health problems, a total lack of housing, limited access to education and other public services and resources, social exclusion, alienation and violence are only a few of the many factors associated with poverty. The fight against this scourge is one of the greatest challenges that the United Nations and its specialized agencies must face in close cooperation with non-governmental organizations and the international community as a whole. Since 1990, commitments have been made and goals established, with a view to achieving the overall objective of eradicating poverty in partnership with all the actors associated with development. In this context, and from this lofty rostrum, Ecuador would like to issue an urgent appeal to all Member States to intensify international cooperation, in its many aspects, in order to fight vigorously together to ensure that these commitments and goals have practical and effective application. We must remember that poverty is not only a malady which destroys the societies directly affected, it is also a corrosive contagion that prevents international relations from developing on a basis of justice and equity. Ecuador is a multi-ethnic country with sizeable and important indigenous groups and significant black minorities. For this reason, it considers that the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People, declared by this General Assembly, establishes a programme of action that will restore the rights of those peoples, which have systematically been victims of a long historical process of exclusion and discrimination. We believe it is incumbent on the entire international community to build universal understanding of the fact that protecting those populations also means preserving the cultural heritage of humankind. Ecuador trusts that it can rely on international cooperation in order to 23 appropriately fulfil its obligation in this respect, in coordination with its national programmes. The founders of the United Nations must have realized that they could not foresee exactly what the world would be like 50 years hence. On the other hand, they established basic objectives and principles and incorporated them in a Charter that is sufficiently flexible to enable the Organization to serve its peaceful objectives and to evolve in response to new challenges. This is why the Charter, and its purposes and principles, has endured. However, today’s changed circumstances, which determine the functioning of the United Nations, demand a modification in the structure and the operational practices of our Organization. It is necessary, among other things, to increase the United Nations capacity to prevent conflicts through preventive diplomacy, peacekeeping and peacebuilding. We need better ways and means to respond to the challenges of emergency situations. And, along with all of this, it is essential to fully carry out the work of economic and social development. The General Assembly must be revitalized as the pre- eminent organ in which all Member States exercise on an equal footing their rights and duties as set forth in the Charter. Equitable representation in the Security Council must be assured, and its size must be in proportion with the number of Member States. It must cease being an elitist organ with antidemocratic privileges, and the efficiency and transparency of its work must be enhanced. The Economic and Social Council must regain its essential original functions as set out in the Charter: primarily, to promote well-being and to improve living standards for all the inhabitants of the Earth. The current financial crisis is seriously affecting the United Nations ability to fulfil the lofty objectives set forth in the Charter. The greatest debtors should set an example of their readiness to fulfil their obligations. Only if there is a general willingness to provide the United Nations with the resources it needs, as well as the necessary political support, will it be possible for the global Organization to live up to the trust and hopes that humankind has vested in it. I wish to inform the General Assembly that since the last session, as regards the peacemaking process being carried out pursuant to the Itamaraty Declaration between Ecuador and Peru, and with the participation of the guarantor countries — Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the United States — several meetings have taken place at both the diplomatic and military levels. At these there has been significant progress, progress that my delegation regards as conducive to finalizing the procedures for discussions on the substance of the border dispute between the two countries. The Government of Ecuador will continue to work towards the achievement of the ultimate goal, which is no less than a fair, definitive and honourable solution to the problem. ﻿On behalf of 130 million Pakistanis, please accept, Sir, greetings on assuming the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. I come to address the Assembly in the twilight of the twentieth century, where we seem to be, in the words of Charles Dickens, at “the best of times” and at “the worst of times”. A century now comes to a close which witnessed two world wars, a Holocaust, hunger, hopelessness and the spectre of nuclear annihilation. But there is another twentieth century that we should remember. The candle flickers on a century that brought mankind a technological and information revolution beyond our wildest dreams; a century of breakthroughs in medicine and health, in communication, in energy, in transportation and in agriculture; a century that witnessed the triumph of liberty over authoritarianism, the triumph of the free market over government control. One historian has called the twentieth century the age of extremes. Tested time and again, the world survived. I come before this Assembly, at this time of transition from one century to the next — from the second millennium to the third — to speak of history, of justice and of morality. Today, the United Nations stands at the crossroads, not just of the calendar, but of the direction of the community of nations. We confront three simultaneous challenges. The first one is the proliferation of conflicts, disputes and tensions among and within nations, and the accompanying rise of national, ethnic and religious prejudice, intolerance and arrogance. The second challenge is the persistent spread of poverty. The third challenge is the growing sense of alienation, the loss of people’s hope and confidence that the world’s Governments will address successfully the multifaceted problems inherent in the new technological era. The manner in which we address these problems will determine the quality of life that we bequeath our children. We remain deeply concerned at the conflicts and disputes in many parts of the world — in Bosnia, in Chechnya and in Azerbaijan. Our confidence in our ability to resolve conflicts has been visibly shaken after the experiences of Somalia, Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Liberia, Rwanda and Burundi. We hope that the Middle East peace process, welcomed by the world, will not be reversed and that all parties will honour their obligations under the agreements signed. The success of the Dayton Agreement and the restoration of peace and justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be an acid test of the world community’s will to prevent aggression and genocide in the future. Yet there is another place on Earth where there is a test of strength between the principles of law and freedom and the force of aggression and foreign occupation. After the creation of the United Nations, the people of Jammu and Kashmir were among the first to have their right to self-determination recognized by the Security Council. I should like to quote the words of the Security Council itself: “the final disposition of the State of Jammu and Kashmir will be made in accordance with the will of the people expressed through the democratic method of a free and impartial plebiscite conducted under the auspices of the United Nations.” (Security Council resolution 122 (1957), second preambular paragraph) After 50 years, the Kashmiri people still await the fulfilment of this resolution, of this commitment, of this promise. The great African-American poet Langston Hughes asked fundamental questions about liberty. He asked: “What happens to a dream deferred? Does it dry up like a raisin in the sun? Or fester like a sore — And then run? (...) Maybe it just sags like a heavy load. Or does it explode?” In 1989, as the winds of freedom swept across the globe, blowing away dictatorship, domination and occupation, a new generation of Kashmiris rose to demand their right to self-determination, a right that had passed from father to son, from mother to daughter — a torch rekindled from generation to generation. To suppress the brave Kashmiri youth, India sent in 600,000 military and paramilitary forces. The tools of murder, torture, rape, persecution, arson, incarceration and assassination attempts were ruthlessly used. But as the Nobel Peace Laureate Martin Luther King said, “Freedom is never voluntarily given by the oppressor. It must be demanded by the oppressed.” Forty thousand Kashmiris have given their lives in opposing this oppression during the last seven years alone. India has recruited and trained renegades to subvert the Kashmiri movement, to create dissension and to tarnish the image of the struggle for freedom. Under mounting international pressure, India sought this September to divert world opinion by organizing a sham election. Those very people who claim to be front-runners in the elections cannot even enter the valley without armed escorts, much less muster popular support. This is what the world’s media had to say. The Arab News of 8 September 1996 reported that its correspondent visited Baramula that morning and saw the entire town deserted. Not a single person was visible on the streets, which were being heavily patrolled. The New York Times of 7 September 1996 reported that while India hopes that the elections will blunt the guerrillas’ appeal, there are many in Srinagar who say New Delhi is chasing an illusion. The Economic Times, an Indian publication, of 17 September 1996 reported that a number of booths in Anantnag and Pulwama recorded single-digit voting, even as late as 3 p.m. The Statesman, another Indian publication, reported on 22 September 1996 that Srinagar put up a stiff resistance to elections that day, and that polling was held in a curfew-like atmosphere on deserted streets. According to the Voice of America’s broadcast of 27 September 1996, United States Senator Tom Harkin said that these elections were fraudulent and would not be considered to reflect the legitimate aspirations of the Kashmiri masses. The Chairman of the Kashmir All Parties Hurriyat Conference, Mir Umar Farooq, declared that such elections cannot be a substitute for the Kashmiris’ right to self-determination. The United Nations Security Council declared in resolution 122 (1957) that the organization of such elections does not “constitute a disposition of the State” 2 (resolution 122 (1957), operative para. 1) in terms of the plebiscite to be held under the auspices of the United Nations. This was confirmed by a recent study by the International Commission of Jurists. I should like India to remember the words of the Frenchman André Breton, who said: “There is nothing with which it is so dangerous to take liberties as liberty itself.” So I stand before the United Nations General Assembly and urge “to thine own self be true”, to thine own Charter be true; and to thine own resolutions be true. India may argue that the Security Council resolutions that guaranteed a plebiscite to Jammu and Kashmir are old, but there is no statute of limitations on United Nations resolutions. Occupation, repression and annexation cannot nullify the actions of the Security Council itself. The resolutions of this body cannot be applied selectively only when politically expedient. Pakistan calls on the United Nations to implement its own Security Council resolutions 47 (1948), 51 (1948), 80 (1950), 96 (1951), 98 (1952) and 122 (1957) — seven specific and binding resolutions guaranteeing self- determination to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. Kashmir is the core issue that divides India and Pakistan. I had proposed a meaningful dialogue to the new Indian Prime Minister on his assumption of office, and was encouraged by his positive response. Unfortunately, the new Government persisted with the strategy of a sham election in occupied Jammu and Kashmir. The Kashmir dispute has led to four direct or indirect wars between India and Pakistan between 1947 and 1971. India has the third-largest army in the world today, almost all of which is deployed against my country Pakistan. South Asia lacks a regional security system. We in Pakistan have made several proposals for conventional arms control: first, the negotiation of a mutually agreed ratio of forces; secondly, measures to prevent the possibility of a surprise attack; and thirdly, the adoption of agreed principles for conventional arms control in South Asia. Over the past 30 years, Pakistan has formulated a series of proposals to contain proliferation of nuclear and missile technology in South Asia. All along, India argued that it opposed bilateral or regional measures and would accept only a global non-proliferation policy. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is exactly the kind of global measure for non-proliferation and disarmament that India had been championing for 40 years. Yet, unfortunately, India chose to veto the Treaty in the Geneva Conference on Disarmament, and it opposed the Treaty at the United Nations General Assembly just last month. So now the world can see the reality. Let me state that just as we are prepared to sign any and all nuclear treaties if India simultaneously signs with us, any step in nuclear escalation by our neighbour will find a response from us to preserve our national security. I should like to take this opportunity to propose to this Assembly that it endorse the convening of a multilateral dialogue for peace and security in South Asia, with the participation not only of Pakistan and India, but of the five permanent members of the Security Council and other major Powers, such as Germany and Japan. This multilateral conference could cover three critical areas: first, the resolution of the Kashmir dispute and other bilateral problems between India and Pakistan; secondly, the promotion of conventional arms control and confidence-building measures; and thirdly, measures to promote nuclear restraint and avert the danger of a nuclear-arms race in South Asia. I believe that such multilateral talks offer a framework for genuine negotiations that can lead to a resolution of disputes, avert the nuclear threat and promote prosperity in South Asia. I hope this proposal will receive the support of this Assembly and of India. A clear distinction has been made by the United Nations between terrorism and the legitimate struggle for national liberation. We in Pakistan will always be at the forefront of the effort to combat terrorism because we have frequently been victims of these crimes from across our own borders. This year alone we faced a series of cross-border terrorist attacks, but, by the grace of God, we were successful in arresting different rings of cross- border terrorists. However, I should like to take this opportunity to express deep concern, on behalf of one billion peace- loving Muslims, at the propaganda from certain quarters. Some quarters are trying to present terrorism as peculiar to the followers of Islam; this is wrong. There is no place in Islam for acts of terrorism. However, let us acknowledge that in the post-cold-war period we are witnessing the rise of extremist fringe groups in the East 3 and in the West. Whether it be Hindu fundamentalism, Islamic militancy, Judaic extremism, Le Pen’s racism in France, or the Oklahoma bombing in America, a number of youth are turning to acts of violence. We who believe in the policies of moderation, accommodation and tolerance must unite against this new threat of violence and terror. International mechanisms and systems to check the agents of terror need strengthening, and we must condemn terrorists and extremists with one voice, irrespective of their race, religion or creed. Pakistan is the second-largest Muslim country in the world. It is a democracy, and the Government I lead is determined to turn Pakistan into a fortress of enlightenment, emancipation and social advancement. This is no easy task given our recent history. The Afghan war led to the proliferation of arms and militancy in our region, and to the rise of ethnic, sectarian and separatist forces in the country. It spawned a drug culture and failed to equip our youth for employment in the modern world. Today we face, along with other countries of the world, the dangers of debt, deficit and demography. I am proud to say that we in Pakistan have brought down our population growth rate from 3.1 per cent to 2.9 per cent. We hope to reduce it further, to 2.6 per cent. In the last three years, we have brought down our deficit by three points, and a billion dollars of debt has been retired. However, the cost has been heavy. Each year we have had to present a harsh budget to pull our country out of the quicksand of debt, deficit and demography. This year alone, out of new budgetary measures of PRs. 40 billion, PRs. 22 billion went to debt servicing. The example of Pakistan shows why increasing numbers of the world’s population live in poverty and squalor, without access to clean drinking water, sanitation, schools or hospitals. These bleak realities of debt servicing breed a despair and frustration that often manifest as random violence and terrorism. Despite this grinding poverty, the aspirations of the marginalized keep rising due to the communications revolution sweeping the world. The world needs to devise a system under which Governments adopting international standards of trade and human values get proportionate relief in their debt. Shrinking aid flows have forced countries such as Pakistan to borrow capital at commercial interest rates. Indeed, debt servicing now accounts for 47 per cent of our budget. The negative impact of such reverse transfers needs to be redressed. Similarly, it is time to renew and implement the pledge of the developed nations to devote at least 0.7 per cent of their gross national products for assistance to the developing countries. Even this target has now dwindled to a level of 0.3 per cent of the gross national product of the developed world. We in Pakistan, committed to the dream of our founding fathers, have chosen the path of a federal parliamentary democracy wedded to the concept of social equality. Under a democratic Government, Pakistan has played a responsible role in combating terrorism and narcotics, promoting the rights of women and children, and working on non-proliferation issues such as the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We have done this while confronting the forces of ethnicity, sectarianism, separatism and militancy that were tearing at our social fabric. Those who sought to undermine our country’s unity by undermining peace in our port city of Karachi have been defeated. We have a clear agenda as we move towards the twenty-first century: a Pakistan dedicated to the rule of law and to safeguarding the rights of its women, children and minorities; a Pakistan providing equal opportunity for the advancement of its citizens by investing in health and in education; a Pakistan that has already attracted over $22 billion in investment pledges. I speak to you, Mr. President, in the twilight of a century that awaits the dawn of a fresh one. As I speak, I dream of a third millennium in which the gap between rich and poor evaporates; in which illiteracy, hunger, malnutrition and disease are at long last conquered; in which every child is planned, wanted, nurtured and supported; and in which the birth of a girl is welcomed with the same joy as that of a boy. I dream of a millennium of tolerance and pluralism, in which people respect other people, nations respect other nations, and religions respect other religions. That is the third millennium I see for my country and others — for all children. Let the United Nations be the infrastructure for making this dream into a reality.  ﻿I should first like to congratulate the President of the General Assembly on his election and to express our confidence in his capability to conduct the work of the current session. In congratulating him on his election, I am pleased by the fact that he represents a country, Malaysia, with which Portugal has excellent relations in addition to deep historical and cultural ties. I believe that it is understandable that I should also take this opportunity to pay tribute to the outgoing President, my fellow countryman Mr. Freitas do Amaral, for the dedicated, competent and innovative manner in which he directed the work of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I wish also to express to the Secretary-General my admiration for the manner in which he has carried out his functions during a period in which the United Nations has been called upon to take an ever more active role in a variety of aspects of international life. My colleague from Ireland has already addressed the Assembly on behalf of the 15 member States of the European Union, expressing positions to which Portugal fully subscribes. Nevertheless, I would like to reflect on some questions that are of particular importance to my country. Allow me to point out that while speaking in my capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs of Portugal, I am also speaking as a representative of a country that is extremely proud to belong to the Lusophone Community. This is probably the newest international organization, and as President of its Council of Ministers, I foresee an important role for it in the concert of nations, in useful and effective cooperation with the United Nations and its agencies. It represents a strengthening of the solidarity and fraternity that unite these countries and will empower the economic and social development of its peoples, while affirming and disseminating the Portuguese language, which is the common heritage of over 200 million people scattered over every continent. The Lusophone Community, made up of Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Sao Tome and Principe and Portugal, is a political project based on the Portuguese language, which is the historic bond and a common heritage of the seven countries, despite geographical separation. It will always be an open forum, based on mutual support and close relationships with all Portuguese-speaking communities of the world and cooperation with other, similar organizations. One year after the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary, we are still far from meeting the expectations created and the real needs of the Organization. It is clear that a process on this scale can be realized only in the medium term. A core issue of the reform process that we must address is the resolution of the serious financial crisis of the United Nations. We believe that the resolution of the crisis can be found through three essential approaches: the fulfilment of commitments, in full and on time; review of the scale of assessments in order to reflect the capacity of Member States to pay; and financial rigour and rationalization of existing resources. In the spirit of contributing to the resolution of this crisis, Portugal voluntarily increased its 1995 contributions to the peacekeeping budget, moving from Group C to Group B 19 in the scale of assessments. That decision will result in a five-fold increase of our initial contribution. Equally important is the reform of the Security Council. We are convinced that only with an adequate and balanced representation of all the world’s regions will the Security Council be more democratic and, consequently, more effective in the formulation and implementation of its decisions. When considering the process of reform, I must also refer to issues related to the Agenda for Development and the Agenda for Peace. With regard to the former, we must recognize the need to review the entire system of international aid for development and consider the role the United Nations should play in this domain. The integrated and sustainable development we propose should be pursued in all its facets, not only in the economic field, but also in the consolidation of democratic institutions. To meet these objectives, it will also be necessary to implement the decisions taken at the major United Nations global conferences, as it has been at those conferences that the Agenda for Development has gradually taken shape. This question is all the more important to us in Portugal, since we focus special attention on the North-South dialogue, which is attested to by the fact that the North-South Centre is located in Lisbon. Aware of the fact that today the important task in this area is to help the developing countries, especially the more vulnerable ones, Portugal has gradually increased the funds it sets aside for development aid, both at the bilateral level and through the framework of international organizations of which it is a member. In this context, our official development assistance exceeds the goal established for donors at the Paris conference in 1990. At the multilateral level, allow me to single out the importance we attribute to the Lomé Convention as a vital instrument of aid and cooperation between the members of the European Union and the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific. Thus, we have strongly advocated a review of the Convention based on maintaining the principles of partnership and cooperation. Maintaining international peace and security undoubtedly continues to be the priority challenge faced by the United Nations. The results achieved in most of the relevant missions lead us to conclude that we should not lessen our commitment or the dynamism of our activity. It is true that the United Nations cannot abdicate its mission of helping to restore peace. We also believe, however, that efforts should be focused on conflict prevention. But in both areas, the question of cooperation between the United Nations and regional intergovernmental organizations has been discerningly raised. This can be seen in some recent successful examples, such as the joint action of the United Nations, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Western European Union (WEU), the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the European Union (EU) in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, organizations of which Portugal is a member and in which it participates actively. Another component of the efforts towards peace is disarmament. Portugal welcomes the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). Portugal, which will contribute significantly to the CTBT verification system, has signed and will shortly ratify the Treaty, and appeals to all Member States of the United Nations to do the same. It is urgent that the process of enlarging the Conference on Disarmament be completed, as well as that of deliberating on its agenda and the rules for decision- making and for admission of new members, which should be improved. It is increasingly essential to seriously debate nuclear disarmament, with a view to achieving the ultimate goal of the permanent eradication of nuclear weapons. We advocate that the Conference on Disarmament should, early at its next session, begin negotiations on a treaty for the banning of the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. With regard to the serious problem of anti-personnel landmines, Portugal hopes that concrete measures will be taken this year towards a complete prohibition of the manufacture and export of those devices of death and destruction. For our part, we have already decreed a moratorium on the manufacture and export of such weapons. Furthermore, I would like to mention that on 23 August last my country ratified the Convention on the banning of chemical weapons. Among the many activities of the United Nations, I would like to single out two areas which I consider essential: the environment and human rights. The protection of the environment is becoming an increasingly prominent issue. In this field, we recognize the great importance of the problems of climate change, 20 desertification and the protection of the marine environment. For this reason, Portugal has been closely following the implementation of the principles and decisions adopted in this regard at major United Nations conferences. I would also like to underline the particular sensitivity of Portugal, whose territory includes two archipelagos — the Azores and Madeira — to questions relating to the sea from a perspective of the development of balanced management of fishing and marine resources. To this end, my country is currently concluding the necessary procedures that will soon permit it to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Furthermore, on Portugal’s initiative, the General Assembly, at its forty-ninth session, declared 1998 International Year of the Ocean. Focusing on this subject, Expo 98 will be held in Lisbon that same year, with the theme, “The oceans: a heritage for the future”. Its central focus will be the relationship between the current state of knowledge on marine resources and the urgency of ensuring, through a rational and scientific management process, a greater ecological equilibrium on our planet. The defence and promotion of human rights is one of the principal concerns of Portuguese foreign policy. We believe that it is the responsibility of every Government to guarantee in their respective countries the full enjoyment of all human rights, but that it is also legitimate for the international community to concern itself with ensuring the promotion and protection of those rights around the globe. We consider that the United Nations has a key role to play, and thus it is indispensable that the High Commissioner and the Centre for Human Rights be provided with adequate human and financial resources for the fulfilment of his important task. A constant pursuit of Portuguese foreign policy has been to stress the need to find a political and diplomatic solution to the question of East Timor, without which it will not be possible to put an to end the systematic abuses of human rights that continue to prevail in that territory. Portugal has repeatedly stated — and I do so here once again — that its sole objective, apart from the immediate concern of defending the human rights and identity of the people of East Timor in their different aspects, is to find a just, comprehensive and internationally acceptable solution to the question of East Timor, in accordance with international law and the full respect for the rights of its people, namely its right to self-determination. Despite the difficulties that have been encountered, the difference between the substantive positions of Portugal and Indonesia and the slowness of the process, we continue to be committed to finding such a solution through dialogue and under the auspices of the Secretary- General, whose patient efforts I wish to pay tribute to here. In the pursuit of that objective, we consider it extremely important to continue the active association of Timorese representatives to that process, which deserves the unequivocal support of the international community. In this regard, I must note here the increasing support that this question has received from the international community, namely through the adoption of positions that range from the resolutions of the European Parliament to the declarations of the 21 Heads of State and Government of the member countries of the Ibero- American summit, and include the common position adopted this year by the 15 member States of the European Union, to which a further 14 European countries associated themselves. Portugal, exercising its responsibilities as administering Power of the non-self-governing territory of East Timor, will continue to cooperate constructively with the United Nations, with full regard for the Charter of the United Nations and the relevant resolutions, towards the indispensable conclusion of the process of decolonization in East Timor. In this era, at the close of the millennium, marked by such profound changes and close interdependencies, we believe that the African continent deserves special attention from the international community. To that end, all efforts should be pooled towards the creation of conditions that will permit it to benefit from a development process similar to that enjoyed by other regions of the world. We are therefore acting in the context of the international organizations of which we are members, with the aim of preventing the marginalization of the African continent and ensuring that it receives priority treatment on the agenda of the international community. Because we actively uphold this view, Portugal has proposed to its European Union partners that a Euro-African summit take place, open to the participation of all African States without exception, so as to allow for 21 a political dialogue at the very highest level on issues of mutual concern. The goal is to achieve a new dimension to our relations and provide a further impulse to traditional areas of mutual cooperation in order to create the foundations of a new global partnership. The 15 Member States of the European Union have already recognized the interest and importance of this initiative. In this manner, we are seeking to include Africa in all its aspects on the international agenda, stressing, on the one hand, the scale and economic potential of the African continent, which is deserving of a new approach and a new model for dialogue, and, on the other hand, encouraging African countries to embark on their own process of development based on the promotion of peace, democracy, stability and economic and social progress. We supported from the very beginning the creation and establishment of the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution by the Organization of African Unity at the Cairo summit in 1993. Portugal attaches great importance to strengthening the dialogue between the European Union and the Southern African Development Community. The second ministerial summit, planned for this October in Windhoek, will certainly allow for a global review of the adequacy of the activities undertaken as a result of the Berlin conference. Portugal, a member of the troika of observers to the peace process in Angola, continues to be particularly engaged in the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, which seeks, in general terms, the re-establishment in Angola of constitutional democratic life and the formation of a single national army. I take this opportunity to salute the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Alioune Blondin Beye, whose negotiating skills constitute an important factor in placing peace and hope in a better future once more on the horizon for all Angolans. We note with satisfaction the positive developments that have taken place over the last few months in the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, which have permitted the cessation of hostilities throughout the entire territory of Angola. However, we cannot ignore the fact that important tasks remain to be completed, without which the irreversibility of the peace process cannot be guaranteed. The postponement of the resolution of military and political questions is difficult to understand and may jeopardize the process of consolidating peace. Allow me therefore to recall the concerns expressed in the declaration of the troika of observers — Portugal, the Russian Federation and the United States — issued on 22 August 1996. I appeal to the Government of Angola and to UNITA to continue to follow the path of peace they have set out on in order to contribute decisively to the full implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, namely through one armed force and the creation of conditions for the free movement of people and goods, which would make possible the normal functioning of society, the economy and the institutions in that great African country. I should also like to appeal to the international community to support the reconstruction and rehabilitation of Angola. In particular, it is urgent that the necessary funds be made available for the implementation of the programmes for the demobilization of former combatants. Social stability is indispensable to the success of the peace process. I would not like to end this reference to Africa without expressing concern for the situation currently prevailing in the Great Lakes region, which has tragic repercussions on the security and well-being of innocent peoples. Portugal is participating in the efforts of the international community to bring to an end this tragedy of the African continent and to ensure the return of stability to that region. Portugal did not remain indifferent to the suffering of the peoples of the Balkans or to a situation with serious consequences for peace and stability in the region. Portugal therefore participates in the Implementation Force with a significant military, police and civilian contingent, very often demonstrating a greater effort and engagement than that of other countries with larger economic capacities. The recent elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina represented an important step towards the consolidation of peace, and we are confident that they will have a lasting effect on the consolidation of the Bosnian State — based on its two entities — allowing for a self-sustained stability of the country and the reconfiguration of the International Force so as not to affect the fundamental goal of guaranteeing peace and the coexistence of the three communities. 22 Portugal will be the host country for the next summit of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which will take place in Lisbon on 2-3 December next. We hope that the 53 Heads of State and Government will take substantial decisions with regard to the cornerstone principles of a security model for the twenty- first century. I am certain that the Lisbon charter, to be adopted at that meeting, will represent a significant step towards the stability of the European continent and the institutional strengthening of the OSCE. Portugal has promoted closer and deeper ties with the countries of the Mediterranean, especially those of the Maghreb, a region of fundamental importance for the security, stability and development of the entire region. In the short term, it is necessary to adopt confidence-building measures that would contribute to launching the foundations of a new type of relationship between the peoples of both sides of the Mediterranean. Portugal is committed to the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean charter, a matrix for a new partnership that will contribute decisively to the political, economic, social and cultural development of our Mediterranean partners. Portugal is following with great concern the latest developments in the Middle East peace process. We believe that the future of the region depends essentially on the will of the parties urgently to restart the negotiations in accordance with the principles of Madrid and the Oslo terms of reference. I appeal to all interested parties to exhibit restraint and to honour previously assumed commitments, which is the only way to achieve a just, comprehensive and lasting peace for the region. The dramatic incidents that have just occurred are the clearest demonstration that there is no alternative to the peace process. Portugal has very strong human, historical and cultural ties with Latin America. The next Ibero-American Summit, which will take place in Chile, will represent another occasion to debate the important advances that the processes of democratization and development have achieved on that continent. Furthermore Portugal welcomes the holding in 1998 of the seventh Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State and Government. Portugal welcomes the projects for inter-American regional integration, as well as the mechanisms for cooperation, that have been gradually established between the countries of that continent and the European Union. The development of a relationship with Asia also constitutes one of the Government of Portugal’s foreign- policy priorities. We share a common historical heritage with many countries in that region. At the bilateral level, in addition to opening new embassies in South-East Asia, we will be seeking to strengthen even further our relationship with the Pacific island States, which will certainly be reflected in the framework of the Lomé Convention. In terms of our multilateral participation, we hope that the new dialogue created in the framework of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) will represent a significant step in the relationship between Europe and Asia, leading to a more open and broader contact on all matters of mutual interest to the European Union and Asia. The transitional process in Macao, to be completed at the end of 1999, based on a constructive dialogue and close cooperation with China, is of the greatest importance to the Government of Portugal, whose fundamental concern is to guarantee the prosperity and stability of the territory, as well as to preserve its identity. The multilateral dynamic is undeniably gaining an ever-greater importance in the international realities of the present. Portugal has been developing unequivocal efforts towards strengthening its participation in the organizations to which it already belongs and becoming involved in new multilateral frameworks. Clear evidence of Portugal’s attitude in this respect is our increasing participation in peacekeeping operations. Portugal has considerable forces in Bosnia and Angola, and currently has the sensitive responsibility of ensuring command of the United Nations force in the Western Sahara. I am pleased to note that in the domain of peacekeeping and international security, we are the European Union’s sixth-largest troop contributor to United Nations peacekeeping operations, and the ninth largest among those countries that make up the Western European and other States group. We are clearly in the top half of the list of countries that contribute forces to United Nations peacekeeping operations. We also lead other Member States with greater resources and per capita output. Portugal’s candidature for membership of the Security Council should be considered as an important expression of the will of my country to continue to participate, as fully as possible, in the multilateral dimension of today’s world. Portugal is a country with a universalist commitment, which is used to establishing 23 contact with many and diverse regions of the world, and to understanding and accepting different cultures and civilizations. We therefore believe that as a member of the Security Council we would be able to contribute to finding solutions in accordance with the principles and purposes enshrined in the Charter. We also believe that participation in the Security Council by States of a size and with characteristics similar to those of Portugal would contribute to greater equilibrium and representativity in the decisions taken by that body. This will be possible only when full respect is given to the principle of sovereign equality of all Member States, which, in truth, represents the principal guarantee of democracy in the Security Council. Yet this principle has not been observed in practice. Indeed, out of the 185 Member States, 79 have never served on the Security Council and 44 have served only once, as is the case with Portugal. We can and should improve this situation. Indeed, to guarantee adequate representation by Member States on the Security Council, obstacles or precedents must not be used that would prevent a healthy rotation in that organ. For these reasons, the Portuguese candidature for membership of the Security Council is based on its own merits. We refuse to resort to any alliances, coalitions or other artificial means that would limit and condition the right of choice of Member States. Portugal’s candidature was not launched to defend interests or to respond to the demands of domestic politics, nor was it launched to pursue or consolidate external ambitions. Portuguese foreign policy is an undivided whole. It is part of, and evolves within, a well-defined geo-strategic space. It is not based on arrogance or economic power, nor has it been altered to accommodate Portugal’s candidature. The foreign policy of my country is based consistently on its universalist commitment to dialogue with all the peoples of the world. Before concluding, I should like to cast my vote of confidence in the future of the United Nations and to reiterate Portugal’s full commitment to the reform of the Organization. ﻿I am pleased to speak before the Assembly of this universal Organization, where virtually every country in the world, small or vast, rich or poor, has a voice, thus making democracy work in international relations. At the outset, I should like warmly to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to your honourable office. I note with pleasure that your diplomatic career includes a term as Ambassador of Malaysia to my country. The delegation of Poland will do its best to assist you in your important functions. Let me also pay tribute to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, an eminent statesman from Portugal, for the excellent manner in which he presided over the work of the Assembly during its fiftieth anniversary session. May I also express the assurance of my highest appreciation to Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali. As a representative of Poland, a country that has suffered so much war, foreign occupation and partition in its history of more than 1,000 years, I feel entitled to convey a simple message: peace is priceless, be it international, with other countries, or internal, among social partners. To endure, peace needs solid economic foundations, sustainable development and growth. Yet peace remains a supreme value and a precondition of life, rightly recognized from the outset as a principal objective of the United Nations. My country’s very recent experience shows that it is possible to undertake a profound transformation of a whole political and economic structure, to defuse a potential internal conflict through peaceful negotiation. Having regained full national sovereignty, we were able to reshape our foreign policy in accordance with the national interest, to reorient it towards the Euro-Atlantic structures and to establish and strengthen good- neighbourly relations with the newly created and/or profoundly transformed States that now surround us. Is there another country in the world which, in just a few years, has seen all of its neighbours, without exception, change and not as a result of conflict? Sometimes we hear opinions on an alleged lack of stability in our region, Central Europe. But it is not true. The case of Poland, with its stabilizing influence in the region, tells quite a different story. I am proud to report to you, Mr. President, that we have accomplished a lot in the last seven years. Not only have we built a sound foundation for a new economic and political system, but we have also succeeded in stopping our economic decline and have achieved, now for the fourth year in a row, a high rate of economic growth, which has encouraged the media to add the Polish eagle to countries nicknamed “economic tigers”. This has been achieved through an enormous effort on the part of our people, who have proved mature enough to pay the price of economic transformation. We have opened up the economy and the country. Tens of millions of tourists are pouring in every year, and millions of Poles travel abroad in all directions. We have become an attractive place for foreign investment, which exceeds $10 billion, and we are working on further improving the conditions in which investment can thrive. It is not my intention to minimize the challenges we still face. Yet I strongly believe in our future. The time has come for Poland, which received help and encouragement from so many countries during its “Solidarity” revolution and its historic peaceful transformation based on a political and social contract, to offer its help to other countries that undertake great processes of transformation. We can share our experience, the services of our companies, and the work of our experts in various fields where transformation is a must. As an Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) member, Poland is determined to become much more involved than heretofore in assisting the developing countries and those in transition. Our priority in terms of foreign policy is to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European Union. While seeking these memberships, we treasure friendly relations and multifaceted cooperation with our neighbours, Russia among them. At the same time, Poland is fully conscious of its duty to carry its part of the obligations as a member of the world community, as manifested by our active participation in the work of the United Nations and currently as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. For many years, Poland has traditionally been among the 10 States fielding the largest contingents in United Nations peace-keeping operations. Permit me to make a personal remark. I made the appeal “Let Us Choose the Future” into the slogan for my 1995 election campaign. May I suggest making this appeal — choosing, and looking into, the future while learning from our common past — here in the United Nations? Old enmities and hatred, both among and within States, should no longer cast a shadow on the construction of our common future. Let me give as an example Poland’s proposal to delete from the United Nations Charter the so-called enemy States clause. Indeed, Poland now has close, friendly relations with its long-time adversary, Germany. As a tribute to history, we plan to carry out soon joint manoeuvres of German and Polish military units, and to contemplate establishing a joint Blue Helmets brigade consisting of Polish and German soldiers. Would that not constitute the best signum temporis possible? This Organization is in acute need of reform to adapt to the challenges of the next century. There is a pressing need for the United Nations to confront the future. Its duty remains to make its Member States aware of global problems as they arise, to analyse them, and to help resolve them through multilateral cooperation. To make this happen, much more is needed than the mere restructuring of its intergovernmental bodies and the Secretariat. Bolstering efficiency in carrying out United Nations tasks through rational downsizing where possible and necessary is not the only major requirement. More importantly, it is high time to adapt the United Nations work programme through innovation and redeployment. For instance, in Poland’s view the United Nations should enhance and upgrade its potential in the field of the protection of human rights through the establishment of a General Assembly committee on human rights and humanitarian affairs, while merging the existing Second and Third Committees into an economic and social one, and through the elaboration by the Secretary-General of an agenda on human rights. In addition, in a more long- term perspective, the creation of a new main body such as a human rights council might be contemplated. The United Nations is expected to help parties in conflict to reach agreement and achieve a just peace. But peace-keeping forces are useless if there is no will for peace in the hearts of fighters. It is necessary to encourage the easing of ethnic, religious and other tensions before they erupt, or if they already have, after resolving the conflict. That is why it is vital to expand preventive action, including diplomatic efforts and post- conflict peace-building as well as assistance for reconstruction and development. We are ready to offer our diplomats, international lawyers, and social and economic development experts for preventive United Nations missions and post-conflict assistance efforts. At the same time it seems essential to address the question of United Nations rapid reaction, including rapid- deployment potential, both in the headquarters and in the 2 field. We have notified the Secretary-General of our intent to make available for the rapid reaction component of the stand-by arrangements our special GROM (Thunder) force, which proved itself in the Haiti operation. Poland considers it timely to re-focus the Organization’s attention on preventive diplomacy and rapid-reaction capability. To prevent as much as possible and react as quickly as possible — this is what is increasingly needed in contemporary conflicts. Indeed, do we always have to helplessly witness worldwide bloodshed and misery, so readily served up by the media, and only afterwards try to help, when it is too late and more costly, when more money brings less benefit and whereas an earlier joint action could have saved a lot of blood and tears for so many countries and peoples? Why do we not ponder how to substitute a strategy of prevention and advance action for one of late reaction ex post facto? This strategy could go beyond a conservative doctrine of the maintenance of peace and security, covering a rapid and selective reaction to potential threats arising among and within Member States, as well as the consolidation of peace when it is painfully achieved. I turn now to the crucial issues of the post-cold-war era: disarmament, arms reduction and averting the spread of arms through non-proliferation. Poland, which now holds the presidency of the Conference on Disarmament, welcomed with great satisfaction the submission to the Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty, and the adoption of the resolution, of which we were among the sponsors. We now look forward to the broad endorsement of the Treaty, which I had the privilege of signing this morning. We must not allow the arduous efforts of so many States to be wasted. While keeping in mind the need for eventual nuclear disarmament, partial steps towards that goal should be given full approval as they bring it closer and make the world safer, as would the entry into force of another important legal instrument: the chemical weapons Convention. Chemical weapons are sometimes called the nuclear bombs of the poor. Recent conflicts, however, have shown that mass destruction can also result from conventional arms, the stockpiles of which have grown enormously. That is why we welcome the parallel focus on such arms, including so- called micro-disarmament, and an early total ban on the use of anti-personnel landmines. If the United Nations wants to remain meaningful in the key areas of its mandate, to be ahead of events, foreseeing and not merely reacting, slowly and inadequately, to what life brings with the astounding pace typical of our times, it should grasp and cope with the interactive relationship between peace, development and human rights protection. All these changes can have the desired effect only in conditions of sustained financing of programmed activities. Political will is not enough. The current financial crisis is propitious neither for the execution of such activities nor for reform. To enable the Organization to fulfil its statutory tasks and to reform, its financial credibility needs to be restored. Member States should not discount innovative ideas for supplementary financing, which could enable more activities to take place, especially in support of developing countries, those in transition, and conflict-ridden countries. Since Governments are more often than not reluctant to increase their dues or their voluntary contributions, or to allow any form of international taxation on their companies and citizens, additional funds could be sought from the private sector. For instance, the idea of a United Nations trust fund financed by tax-free donations, mainly from transnational corporations, could be examined. After all, stability combined with economic growth and social peace also benefit such companies. Should their host Governments create encouraging conditions for them to contribute, such as common rules for tax reduction, the United Nations might acquire additional sources of funding, especially for humanitarian and development support activities. Such a solution would in no way affect the governmental character of the Organization if control over the allocation of the newly acquired additional resources rested with Governments, and if no conditionality could be introduced by donors. I would now like to draw the attention of the Assembly to what I consider one of the most important aspects of my statement. I witnessed the terrorist attack at the Olympic Games in Atlanta in July, and cannot forget faces expressing shock and tragedy. Poland is a country that has struggled over centuries for its own freedom and that of others. We have finally achieved well-earned greatness and the benefits of democracy. However, our nation is also paying a heavy toll for those benefits: open frontiers and increased migration of people pose threats to the security and well- being of my compatriots. Organized crime distorts the image of democratic societies on a national, regional and 3 global plane. To combat it, we need the solidarity of all States, and a concerted effort by all of us. The international community is faced with the growing threat arising from seemingly unstoppable manifestations of transnational organized crime and international terrorism, which menace both the material and institutional foundations of our societies. What is especially dangerous for us and for future generations is that in so many cases we have been unable to bring criminals to justice. Justice has been neither done nor seen to be done. I have received reports that my own country, and the whole region, faces a steep increase in drug trafficking, slavery, trade in child sex, and money laundering. Organized crime is a worldwide phenomenon. It brings tragedy and suffering to many — the immediate victims and other innocent people. But it does more: organized crime leads to the creation of illegal associations and businesses that infiltrate and undermine legitimate economic interests and political structures. Organized crime is like a form of corrosion in societies. Organized crime corrupts States. Organized crime is a cancer in our communities, a cancer that we should fight together. Alone, we risk losing the battle and endangering our security. I am convinced that only a worldwide effort under United Nations auspices has any prospect of stopping these crimes, which threaten democratic freedoms and democracy itself. Poland believes, therefore, that the time has come to make a concerted international effort to agree on, and accede to a comprehensive legal instrument: a convention designed to enhance cooperation between States and facilitate the work of law enforcement agencies in fighting transnational organized crime. I have the privilege to submit to this Assembly a draft framework convention against organized crime. It is annexed to the text of my statement, which has been distributed to members. The Assembly will note that the draft convention deals with illicit traffic in drugs and psychotropic substances and money laundering; traffic in persons; counterfeiting currency; illicit traffic in or stealing of cultural objects; stealing and smuggling nuclear material, and the misuse or threat of misuse of such material to harm the public; terrorist acts; illicit traffic in or stealing of arms and explosive materials or devices; illicit traffic in or stealing of motor vehicles; and corruption of public officials. The draft text proposes a system of cooperation between Member States to combat organized crime. It calls for States either to punish offenders or to extradite them. We ask States to introduce criminal liability for people who derive profits from organized crime, wherever such liability is not already clear. We believe that we should make United Nations agencies and regional and global governmental and non-governmental organizations play a greater role in combatting organized crime. The draft framework convention is by no means carved in stone. We call on Member States to discuss and improve the text. We hope that the Assembly will determine modalities to assure its speedy and successful elaboration. I am sure that our common effort will help to save our societies from the scourge of organized crime. Approaching the end of the century, the planet is visibly in turmoil despite the otherwise universally welcomed end of East-West confrontation and of the ever-present threat of global conflict. Yet even in the heart of Europe, we are painfully aware of conflicts, wars, tragedies, massive disasters, famine and serious economic difficulties. People often expect the United Nations to offer a miraculous remedy for all the evils of the world and to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, and in the equal rights of men and women, and of nations large and small. If we just adhere to the Charter, the high roads will be clear, not only for our time but for the coming century. We must not betray the high expectations held of the United Nations. For its part, Poland will not fail to continue to support the Organization. In today’s interdependent world, we need a global body to settle our differences and to ensure orderly global governance to avert threats to humanity. There is no point in reinventing the wheel. We are able to adapt what we already have to what we need now and in the years to come. In essence, we are looking forward to a more united United Nations which has chosen the future. As an original Member State, Poland stands prepared to contribute its share to making such an endeavour a reality. ﻿I congratulate Mr. Razali on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. We are more than convinced that his vast experience and diplomatic skills will prove to be vital assets at this session of the Assembly. I assure him that my delegation will cooperate fully with him in the fulfilment of his onerous responsibilities. Furthermore, I would like to pay tribute to his predecessor, Professor Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who steered the work of the Assembly through its historic fiftieth anniversary in a commendable and honourable way. Our tribute also goes to the Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for his distinguished leadership of our Organization during the past year. We are especially grateful to him for his tireless efforts to enhance the Organization’s role in maintaining international peace and security as well as in promoting international economic development and cooperation. At the last session of the General Assembly, when we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we witnessed the largest-ever gathering of Heads of State and Government. On that occasion, the world leaders made a historic reaffirmation of our commitment to the purposes and principles of this Organization as enshrined in the Charter. Besides taking stock of the progress made and the lessons learnt during the past 50 years, the world leaders endeavoured not only to recapture the vision of the founding fathers of the United Nations, but also to chart the institutional framework and operational parameters that could enhance the Organization’s relevance and effectiveness in a changed international landscape. My delegation sincerely hopes that we will all be able to take full advantage of this renewed commitment to the Organization to ensure that the United Nations system as a whole is reformed, revitalized and rendered more efficacious, transparent, accountable and democratic. The United Nations, as the universally accepted matrix of multilateralism, must, in the post-cold-war era, play a vastly expanded role in the domain of peace- keeping and make a positive contribution to the new phenomenon of globalization and its increased levels of economic and social interdependence, as well as the technologically fuelled transnational linkages among the countries of the world. The Organization therefore faces an inescapable imperative for reform and revitalization. 16 In this regard, my delegation is deeply perturbed by the slow progress made by the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council. We in Africa maintain that the present arrangement, in which Africa and Latin America have no permanent representatives on the Security Council, while Asia has only one, is unjust and antidemocratic and must not be allowed to continue. Those three regions should each have at least two permanent seats, with incumbents enjoying the same rights and privileges as the present permanent members. Additional non-permanent seats should also be allocated to each of those regions so as to ensure equitable geographical representation proportionate to the numerical strength of each region in this Organization. In other areas of reform, our primary objective should be to reaffirm the role of the General Assembly as the highest decision-making body in the entire United Nations system. Any process of restructuring, revitalization or strengthening should necessarily redress the erosion of the principle of the accountability of all principal and subsidiary organs and specialized agencies of the United Nations to the General Assembly. My delegation will therefore seek resolutely to uphold the authority of the General Assembly as enshrined in the Charter and, consequently, will oppose any proposals or recommendations that might lead to the usurpation of the authority of the General Assembly under any guise or form. Accordingly, we will not agree to authorizing the Secretariat to amend, postpone or cancel any official programme activities without the express approval of the General Assembly, whose prerogative it is to give, change or withdraw the mandates of such programme activities. My delegation is of the strong view that reform should not necessarily be equated with the downsizing of the United Nations system. We also feel that an optimally streamlined and strengthened United Nations system will not necessarily be responsive to the needs of its membership as long as it is subjected to chronic cash-flow problems. The appalling record of some Member States that dishonour their financial obligations to the United Nations and our endless lamentations over the resultant financial crises have clearly brought into question the credibility of the Organization and the commitment of its membership. In our view, the time is long past for us to re-examine all the efforts that we have been exerting in an endeavour to identify and agree on the formulation and mechanisms to deal with the current financial crisis that has beset the Organization. Unless Member States take serious steps to clear their arrears and improve their payment pattern by remitting their assessed contributions promptly, in full and without conditions, the United Nations will continue to dither on the brink of bankruptcy and its efficacy will be totally compromised. It is imperative that we, the Member States, create a capacity for the Organization to fulfil the mandate we have given to it. The United Nations’ role in maintaining international peace and security must of necessity have a global thrust in both the geographical sense and the conceptual framework. Peace-threatening conflicts in any part of our global village should never be seen to attract differential attention depending upon their geographical location, strategic interest, ethnic complexion or such other narrow considerations of the big Powers. The much-belated intervention and subsequent failure of the United Nations in Somalia and its half- hearted interventions in Rwanda, Burundi and Liberia have exposed the Organization to harmful criticism, which has led to a further decline in its credibility. United Nations peacekeeping efforts in Africa have generally met with mixed fortunes. We have yet to see the Namibian and Mozambican success stories repeat themselves in several other trouble spots on the continent. Although the peace process in Angola continues to run behind schedule, we are persuaded that the seeds of lasting peace have been sown in that country. We need to redouble our efforts in urging the Angolans to persevere along the present bumpy road of peace on the basis of national reconciliation and unity. Although the humanitarian situation in Somalia has improved somewhat since the intervention of the United Nations, that country remains in political turmoil from which it cannot rescue itself fully without the sustained involvement of the international community. We therefore call upon the international community, through the United Nations, to review its current minimalist approach to Somalia, explore new possibilities for constructive engagement and give peace another chance. In Burundi, the fundamental challenge of having democracy with security has now been compounded by the need to stop generalized violence and to return the country to constitutionality. The United Nations should support the sterling efforts of Burundi’s neighbours to assist that country to achieve peace and stability. The tragedy of genocide in Rwanda must not be allowed to repeat itself in Burundi. No! 17 In Liberia, brute force and violence must not be allowed to triumph. The parties should be made to honour the peace agreement already reached through the good offices of the Economic Community of West African States. The people of Liberia have suffered enough. The United Nations must send a clear message to the warlords in that country that our common humanity may soon impel us to try them for war crimes and crimes against humanity. With regard to the stalled peace process in Western Sahara, it is imperative that the international community, through the United Nations, honour the spirit and letter of the commitment it made to the disenfranchised people of that territory and ensure that a free and fair United Nations- supervised referendum takes place there on the basis of the United Nations Settlement Plan for Western Sahara. In the Middle East, we appeal to the new Government of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization to continue on the path of peace and reason, as espoused by the late Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Yitzhak Rabin, who paid with his life that the two peoples might live together in peace and harmony. Renewing the construction of settlements on Palestinian land is no contribution to peace. It undermines the peace process. There is no alternative to peace. We therefore urge the parties to remain committed to the peace process until Palestinian self-determination and a Palestinian State become realities. It is only in this context that the security of Israel can be guaranteed. Commitment to peace has remained the centrepiece of the Non-Aligned Movement. Thirty-five years ago, the founding fathers of this Movement had a vision of a world, inter alia, living in peace and harmony, free of nuclear threat and super-Power rivalry. Two days ago, we had occasion to commemorate that vision. We found it to be as relevant and powerful today as when it was first articulated 35 years ago. We recommitted ourselves, among other things, to pursuing the goal of a world at peace, free from the threat of weapons of mass destruction. We reaffirmed that complete nuclear disarmament is a sine qua non for the survival of humanity on our planet. We therefore appeal to all nuclear Powers to agree to ban the production, testing and use or threat of use of nuclear weapons and other weapons of Armageddon. To enhance this Organization’s accountability and credibility, the decision-making process with regard to United Nations peace-keeping mandates must cater to an increased role for the general membership of the Organization, starting with troop-contributing countries. Furthermore, efforts such as those which entail preventive diplomacy and post-conflict peace-building, as spelled out in the Secretary-General’s report, “Supplement to an Agenda for Peace”, clearly fall within the domain of the General Assembly. Moreover, it is our view that the United Nations is the only Organization which is uniquely charged with a global mandate to maintain international peace and security. This means therefore that regional peace-keeping efforts can only complement and not substitute the leading role of the United Nations. The United Nations should also enhance its role in promoting international cooperation in other spheres of its competence, particularly that of trade. Only a few months ago, the international community celebrated the successful launching of the World Trade Organization, following protracted multilateral trade negotiations. For this new multilateral trade regime to work, it is imperative that member States resist the temptation to initiate practices or policies that seek to compromise the sovereignty of other member States or to reintroduce colonialism in another guise. Developed countries should live up to their commitments and abandon protectionist policies if all countries are to benefit from the new trading arrangements. Improved market access and increased foreign direct investment must be accompanied by new and innovative ways to tackle the debt burden of developing countries, with a view to finding a comprehensive and once-and-for-all solution to the debt problem. Given the negative economic trends in some of our countries, the developed countries and international financial institutions should seriously consider debt- forgiveness for low-income developing countries. Such a course of action would stop the flight of much-needed resources from these countries and create new possibilities for real savings for investment and growth. I wish to affirm that we, the developing countries, fully accept and recognize that we bear the primary responsibility for our own development; we have accordingly undertaken various economic structural adjustment reforms, often at enormous social and political cost. These ambitious and painful reforms could flounder if developed countries fail to complement these sterling efforts by taking decisive measures to reduce the stock of our debt and by removing the wall of protectionist barriers. We also call on the developed countries to take decisive measures, as a matter or urgency, to increase the flow of official development assistance, private investment and the transfer of technologies to developing nations. 18 In a few days, world leaders will assemble in Rome for yet another world summit. This time, the international community will focus its attention on the important question of food security and the good health of the people of the world. Unfortunately, even the increased food supplies in the world are inaccessible to more than 1.5 billion hungry people who are acknowledged to be living in abject poverty. We cannot accept that the legacy of hungry and malnourished people is what our generation will bequeath to the twenty-first century. We expect development to bring food to our dining tables, clean water into our homes, better housing, improved health and security to all our children. The present trend towards globalization and the deepening interdependence among economies should foster a universal feeling and sense of belonging to the global village whose concept we have now come to take for granted, but whose benefits accrue to only a few countries. Only last week, this Assembly carried out a review of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. In the statements made by representatives of African countries, it was made abundantly clear that the international commitments made in 1991, like those made at the launching of United Nations Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and Development 1986-1990 earlier, had not been fulfilled. We therefore call on the international community, and our development partners in particular, to mobilize the requisite financial resources to augment our efforts and give fresh impetus to the realization of the goals set out in United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. When the founding fathers of the United Nations outlined the purposes and principles of this Organization, they envisioned a United Nations that would “be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of these common ends.” As we seek to enhance the relevance of this Organization to the world today, it is imperative that we understand that the vast majority of the people of this world expect the United Nations to be a principal actor for progress and change, and to be equipped to play an effective and leading role in improving the economic and social situation of the world’s citizens. As we commemorate the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty, we are alarmed at the growing extent of abject poverty, which now engulfs 20 per cent of the world’s population. That poverty is the root cause of most of the world’s social ills, including strife and peace-threatening conflicts, cannot be overemphasized. We appeal to Governments the world over to respond in earnest to the clarion call of the Copenhagen world social summit and to spare no effort at both the national and international levels, to roll back the advancing scourge of poverty. It is needless to stress that the elimination of poverty and the attainment of the broader goal of sustainable development will remain impossible to achieve unless nations show renewed political resolve to implement policies aimed at enabling humankind to better manage and live with its environment, as agreed to at the Rio de Janeiro summit and at subsequent Conferences. The ever-dwindling natural resource base, global warming, persistent droughts and desertification are eloquent reminders that humankind’s current destructive processes of growth are pushing our planet towards the precipice. Under these circumstances, the search for safer, environmentally sound and sustainable approaches to development, including the utilization of new and renewable resources, has become more urgent now than ever before. Only last week, leaders from 103 countries, from all regions of the world, heeding this historic challenge of our time, gathered in Harare, Zimbabwe, for the first-ever World Solar Summit to map out strategies aimed at promoting the development and utilization of solar and other forms of renewable energy. In recognition of the important role that solar energy can play in the advancement of socio-economic development and in reducing environmental degradation, the Summit adopted a comprehensive World Solar Programme 1996-2005 with a view to creating effective mechanisms to speed up and facilitate the use of solar energy. We call upon the United Nations Secretary-General, the specialized agencies of the United Nations, non-governmental organizations and the international community at large to lend the necessary financial and other forms of support to the Programme to enable it to succeed. In June 1997 another conference of equal environmental significance, the International Convention on Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), will convene in Harare. The challenges facing this conference will by no means be small. Global conservation strategies and policies have to be implemented in the national interest and within the means available for the benefit of each country. We in southern Africa have adopted effective conservation policies over the years that have seen the 19 growth of our elephant herd beyond the levels our ecosystem can support. It would be unfortunate, and indeed an irony of our times, if we, who have conceived and successfully implemented innovative wildlife conservation policies, should find ourselves being penalized for our success and the failure of others. The international community has an obligation to adopt new, dynamic and flexible policies that would enable countries such as South Africa, Namibia, Botswana and my own country to reap the benefits of their wildlife conservation successes. To act otherwise would be counter-productive and an injustice to the noble cause of wildlife conservation as a whole. My country intends to make constructive suggestions on this subject at the CITES meeting next year. To remain relevant and effective, the United Nations must stay at the centre stage of global activities. Its worldwide responsibilities cannot be delegated; nor can its Charter-enshrined priorities be subordinated to issues extraneous to its purposes and principles. We are taken aback by the efforts of those who seek to prescribe to the United Nations a reform exercise that would force the Organization to diminish and to reorient its Charter- enshrined role in promoting development to the Bretton Woods institutions, the World Trade Organization and the blind forces of the market. The Charter envisaged an identifiable role for the United Nations in promoting development, which is a prerequisite for, and the ultimate corollary of, peace. My delegation maintains that the United Nations is uniquely placed to play a policy-making and resource identification role. Its decisions must necessarily set the pace and direction for other institutions such as the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization. In conclusion, the strength of the United Nations lies in its universality and its impartiality in implementing its mandate to promote peace and security, economic and social development, human rights and international law as outlined in its Charter. Whereas the Organization has clearly played a significant role in the containment and settlement of disputes through peace-keeping activities, and in the expansion and codification of international law, it has largely failed to have any significant impact on the development process in developing countries. The few developing countries that have managed to score any breakthroughs have done so in spite of the United Nations. As the General Assembly outlines its medium-term plan for the period 1998-2003, my delegation, together with others, will seek to ensure that the development process, particularly Africa’s economic recovery and development, is underwritten by the Organization’s irrevocable commitment. Finally, let me turn to the agenda item dealing with the election of the Secretary-General of this Organization. Since it is an item on the agenda of this Assembly, it is imperative that Member States freely express their views on this matter. We of Africa have a clear and unambiguous position. We believe that it is Africa’s turn to provide a Secretary-General. We have had one term so far and, following the normal practice, are entitled to a second term. The African leaders, meeting in Yaoundé, Cameroon, this year, endorsed the candidature of the incumbent, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. We stand ready to engage all Members of this Organization in the process of finalizing consultations on this subject. ﻿As we begin the second half of the United Nations first century, we are presided over by a diplomat whose distinguished career has included service in four of the world’s five great regions. He has demonstrated skill and ready humour in his work as the Permanent Representative of Malaysia. I note with some amazement his most recent achievement: getting this Assembly to begin each meeting promptly on schedule. This bodes well for our efforts here. Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal presided over the fiftieth session of the General Assembly with the intellect and distinction characteristic of his career as a parliamentarian and teacher of law. We are in his debt. Last year, I saluted the Secretary-General, as well as the women and men of the Secretariat, the specialized agencies and other bodies of the United Nations for their extraordinary work during this difficult time in the Organization’s history. The Solomon Islands applauds them all. It is difficult to persevere in the face of harsh and unjustified criticism and insufficient financial resources while engaged in the complex task of revitalizing the United Nations to meet the needs of a world in rapid transformation. This morning, on behalf of the Solomon Islands, I signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). I was especially pleased to do so because nuclear-weapons testing and disarmament are critical issues for the people of my country. During the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, the Solomon Islands worked with its sister States of the South Pacific Forum and the Pacific basin for the adoption of resolution 50/70 A on nuclear testing. Noting the international alarm over recent nuclear tests and the potential negative effects of underground nuclear testing on health and the environment, the General Assembly deplored all nuclear testing and called for its immediate cessation. 4 The islands and atolls of the Pacific Ocean were the sites of nuclear tests for 50 years. Peoples were displaced and fragile environments destroyed. We welcome the end of the nuclear-weapons tests, but when will the States who conducted them accept their responsibility for providing long-term damage assessments and aid for resettlement and the restoration of economic productivity? Solomon Islands also welcomes the signature of Tonga, as well as the signature and ratification by the Republic of Vanuatu, of the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty and the signing of its Protocols by France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Last November, the judges of the International Court of Justice heard two weeks of argument to assist them in rendering the Advisory Opinion requested by the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session on the question: Is the threat or use of nuclear weapons in any circumstances permitted under international law? The Solomon Islands worked closely with the Marshall Islands and Western Samoa in developing and presenting to the Court, in cooperation with other States, the case that the use of even the smallest nuclear weapon would violate international law, particularly humanitarian law. The landmark Opinion rendered by the Court on 8 July largely supported our position. Regrettably, the nuclear Powers that argued against us at the International Court of Justice see it otherwise. We look forward to the debate on the Advisory Opinion, which is on the agenda thanks to the initiative of Malaysia. The indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), the creation of Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zones in Africa and South-East Asia, the finding of the International Court of Justice, the General Assembly’s adoption of the CTBT — whatever its shortcomings — and the report of the Canberra Commission indicate that a momentum exists for establishing targets and timetables for the elimination of all nuclear weapons. Although the majority of States support this, such States have no forum in which they can develop their ideas and formulate a strategy. Solomon Islands proposes the creation of a forum of non-nuclear-weapon States. Committed to the elimination of nuclear weapons, the forum would seek agreement on a unified approach to the full implementation of article VI of the NPT and monitor progress towards that end. Moreover, the forum would work to give effect to arrangements such as the southern hemisphere nuclear-weapon-free zone and linked regional nuclear-weapon-free zones that could evolve into a global nuclear-weapon-free system. Solomon Islands endorses the statement made here last week by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Marshall Islands on behalf of the South Pacific Forum. Solomon Islands, a member of the South Pacific Forum ministerial committee on New Caledonia, welcomes the progress facilitated by France and the relevant parties in implementing the Matignon Accords. For the small island States of the Pacific, the environment, development and international trade are matters of critical concern. The development of comprehensive arrangements for the sustainable management of our region’s fisheries is urgently needed. Solomon Islands will soon sign and ratify the Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. The special session of the General Assembly to be convened in 1997 to review Agenda 21 is also of great importance to Solomon Islands. We seek practical ways to improve ongoing regional efforts to meet the Agenda’s goals. The second assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is a call to the international community to speed up negotiations, recognizing that such a global problem demands a collective solution. Solomon Islands continues to support the Alliance of Small Island States Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. If lower greenhouse gas emissions are not achieved soon, the very survival of small island developing States will be threatened. Moreover, the sustainable management and conservation of our forests are essential for the biological diversity and economy of the country. In the Pacific, where healthy coral reefs are essential for effective coastal zone management, we are collaborating in the international coral reef initiative and will take part in our region’s Year of the Coral Reef in 1997. As valuable as these efforts are, what remains to be done is formidable. The recent report to the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development on activities to implement the Barbados Programme of Action in the Pacific region shows the range and magnitude of the problems the citizens of the small island developing States face. The future of the Solomon Islands must depend on a people-centred development strategy that uses a bottom- 5 up and top-down process of decision-making. With a population of fewer than 400,000 people of diverse ethnic and linguistic origins, 80 per cent of whom live in rural settings on hundreds of islands arrayed over 1,600 kilometres of ocean, no other system is workable. A major change in our system of provincial government is designed to maximize rural community participation in planning and decision-making. Overseas development assistance could, therefore, be directed to where it is most needed. We are fostering public health, literacy and electrification. That is why the recent completion of our first solar-powered village is important for us. In implementing the Habitat Agenda, we are encouraging self-reliance in village development. Solar and other renewable energy resources, such as water and wind, will further our economic, education and health development plans. Several weeks ago, the Internet reached the Solomon Islands. Personal computers in a growing number of our secondary schools and the possibility of lap-top computers in the hands of teachers and students give new hope for my country’s future. We are now using the World Wide Web to introduce the country to potential investors and tourists. Peace in our region is essential for sustainable development. Solomon Islands encourages the efforts of Papua New Guinea to resolve its Bougainville crisis through constructive dialogue with all the parties concerned. The confidence-building measures have reduced the tension across the border between Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands. Solomon Islands, which patiently follows the debates on reforming the United Nations, recognizes the difficulties inherent in making the Organization more effective. We support an increase in the non-permanent membership of the Security Council on a regional basis and thank Italy for its valuable proposal. If the number of permanent members is also to be enlarged, the responsibilities of permanent membership and the criteria for the use of the veto must be established and made transparent. The fiftieth anniversary Declaration called for the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly, the universal organ of the States Members of the United Nations. Proposals have been put forward and debated. Calls for reducing the length of the agenda continue to echo through these halls. Yet, in the past few weeks, we have seen how vital the General Assembly can become when a delegation skilfully and vigorously presses forward with a great issue and effectively marshals the support of many Member States. I refer to the extraordinary work of Ambassador Richard Butler and his Australian colleagues in mobilizing overwhelming support for the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). When the will and commitment are present, the General Assembly can act with brilliant effectiveness, winning the applause of a world hungry for security, peace and prosperity. Such an achievement need not be rare. As the universal organ of the Member States, the General Assembly should be a force for democracy, transparency and universality. For example, the Charter permits the General Assembly a much larger role in the selection of the Secretary-General than it has exercised in the past. Confronted as we are with public action in this matter by one of the great Powers, should we not now seek to make the process truly democratic and open? Can we afford to leave this essential issue to last-minute bargaining behind closed doors? Twenty-five years ago, the General Assembly at its twenty-sixth session adopted resolution 2837 (XXVI), which recognized the unquestionable value of the general debate and said that it should continue to be held every year and that the time devoted to it should be utilized to the maximum. The general debate offers a glimpse of how Member States see the state of the world and the United Nations. Listening to the statements in this great Hall, one is struck by the spectrum of ideas and opinions they present. Discussion would enhance their value for us, but we have not established appropriate venues at which the views offered here could be thoroughly explored. Can we afford to deny ourselves the benefit of engaging our colleagues intellectually? To move the General Assembly towards universality, Solomon Islands believes that substantially reducing the floor rate in the scale of assessments, as has been proposed, would not only enable several countries in our region to seek membership of the United Nations but would help many developing countries to pay their annual assessments in full and on time. Two themes have clearly emerged in our general debate: Whatever its weaknesses, the United Nations is indispensable; but without sufficient resources and a decisive commitment to true multilateralism, the Organization cannot fulfil its obligations to the peoples of the world. Solomon Islands and the other small island developing States need this Organization. Whether the issue is investment, law enforcement, trade embargoes, fishing rights, hazardous waste dumping, natural disasters, 6 autonomy, independence or any combination of these, the people of the small islands turn to the United Nations for support. We and others spoke out on behalf of the Republic of China on Taiwan, which, barred from the United Nations and seeking unification with the People’s Republic of China, is attempting to enlarge its contribution to the developing world through this Organization. Solomon Islands hopes that unification negotiations based on the proposals each party has put forward can begin in the near future. The United Nations is dealing with important issues: the Agenda for Development, the programmes of action approved at the world conferences, technical assistance, the Secretary-General’s preventive diplomacy, the evolving international system for protecting human rights. In this respect Solomon Islands especially thanks the International Committee of the Red Cross for its efforts to rid the world of anti-personnel landmines and for its work caring for the displaced and searching for missing persons, including Kuwaitis and Greek Cypriots who have still not been heard from, and many other people who have “disappeared”. These are life and death matters even for those of us who live on distant islands. Through a commitment to equity, democracy and tolerance based on multilateralism and universality, an effective United Nations will serve us all for generations to come. ﻿Allow me, first of all, to congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail, as a representative of a State with which Turkmenistan has exceptionally warm relations, on the occasion of his election to this high post. I should like also to express confidence that his vast diplomatic experience in close association with the United Nations will enable him to effectively guide the work of the current session, which is called upon to accomplish a number of historic objectives. The President's opening statement reaffirms that our expectations will come true. Here, I should like to express our appreciation to Mr. Freitas do Amaral for his work during the preceding session of the General Assembly, which has become an integral part of Turkmenistan’s history by dint of its unanimous adoption of the resolution on the permanent neutrality of my country. Speaking from this rostrum on the eve of the adoption of that resolution, His Excellency Saparmurad Niyazov, President of Turkmenistan, emphasized that Turkmenistan would take all the necessary steps to reaffirm its complete adherence to the principles of the United Nations by making a constructive contribution to the stabilization of the situation in our strife-torn region, by peace-building and by serving the interests of cooperation within our region and at the inter-regional level. During the past year, Turkmenistan has taken steps to achieve this goal by playing host to three rounds of talks between Tajik factions in Ashgabat, by providing assistance to the Mission of the Secretary-General’s special envoy for Afghanistan, and by hosting a number of major international forums. Having entered the world community of nations as an independent State on the eve of the twenty-first century, Turkmenistan, like other countries, has found itself facing the need to accept the challenge of the times so typical of the turn of centuries. That is why we have focused our efforts on the international arena, striving to become part of the worldwide process with its new trends towards unity based on national statehood and sovereignty. A policy of constructive neutrality has become our response to the challenge of the epoch. Turkmenistan is an Asian country whose destiny has been to become one of the actors involved in the all- European process. We view this factor as a unique chance to cooperate with the Europeans within the framework of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the European Union and other organizations, and to promote better understanding and the improvement of North-South cooperation. Today the international community confronts problems requiring new approaches and innovative decisions, profound analysis and forecasting. In this respect, we would like to propose that, under the auspices of the United Nations, an international centre for political studies be established in Turkmenistan that would carry out studies on the political and economic situation in our region. The work of the centre should correspond to the new geopolitical realities, and the centre should have the task of elaborating specific strategic recommendations in the interests of global peace and security. It is no secret that analysing a situation from a distance often leads to incorrect conclusions and projections. Confrontation between blocs has become a thing of the past. Today geo-economic regions have emerged as the main actors in the political arena. Classifying States according to their size and might, which infringes on the interests of small and medium-size States, has become 23 obsolete. Within the existing system of international relations, all States should be able to structure themselves within the framework of universally accepted rules, but they should do so according to their own tenets and principles. It is in this context that we support the initiatives aimed at introducing appropriate changes in the functioning of the United Nations, its bodies and sister organizations. The United Nations Charter stipulates that the Security Council bears primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. We share the view that today the notion of security has undergone a radical transformation and includes an entire set of equally important political, economic, environmental, social, military and other components. Proceeding from this assumption, we endorse the proposal that membership of this main body of the United Nations should be enlarged, within reasonable limits, so that it may ensure that this international process is manageable and controllable. Of equal importance is the question of balanced and adequate representation in the Security Council of States from both the North and the South. Today’s Turkmenistan is a country with a transitional economy undergoing profound social and political changes. In this respect, we hope that “An Agenda for Development” will be finalized during the current session, which will help to establish a system of priorities and assistance to States pursuing such national development programmes. It is hardly possible to overestimate the role of the United Nations, because it is precisely this mechanism that should ensure the utmost objectivity and tolerance towards such processes. Newly independent States did not emerge out of a vacuum. Each one possesses its own specific features, unique national and geographic characteristics, historical ties and psychological patterns. Each one has the right to choose its own model of development and State system. Proceeding from this assumption, we support the view that diversity is integral to the world. However, though all States are subject to international law, the aspirations of all for development and prosperity cannot be programmed according to a single standard or world view. The main challenge of the twenty-first century is to ensure that all Members of the United Nations can look at one another from the point of view of unity in diversity. We are therefore grateful to the United Nations and to States possessing global political and economic potential for their support and understanding. Turkmenistan possesses colossal natural resources. It has one of the richest deposits of hydrocarbons in the world — I refer to the Caspian basin as well as to other areas of my country. One of the major tasks facing us is the establishment of a pipeline infrastructure that, in conjunction with the existing system, will ensure supply of our gas to Europe and Asia. We are glad that Turkmenistan’s interests as an exporter coincide with the interests of European and Asian consumers. We are happy that neighbouring countries — Iran, Afghanistan, Russia, Turkey, Pakistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakstan — do not have any differences with respect to this issue. In this context I would like to touch on several issues relating to the Caspian Sea. Turkmenistan, like all littoral States, is concerned about its future and the prospects for its resources. We believe that there is no place for unilateral decisions or dictates on this issue. What is required is the establishment of a system of full trust and interaction among the Caspian Sea States for the sake of the common interests and prosperity of each individual State. The forthcoming Conference of Foreign Ministers of the Caspian States to be held in Ashgabat will serve as the forum for discussion of all those problems and will prepare a platform for a Caspian summit meeting. Turkmenistan is opposed to any military activity in the Caspian Sea. It wishes to ensure a regime of free navigation with respect to the national borders of every littoral State. The wealth of the Caspian Sea, its unique biological and mineral structure and fragile ecological system call for a comprehensive and balanced approach, free from short-term profit or political advantage. We do not doubt that all Caspian Sea States will be able to find the best alternative on the basis of common sense and respect for the interests of each country involved in the name of the common goal of peace and security. There is one area of cooperation with the United Nations in which Turkmenistan has a special interest: the struggle against drug distribution and trafficking. Turkmenistan is waging a relentless fight against this evil and has established a State coordination commission. At the beginning of this year Turkmenistan joined the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances and the 1988 United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. Turkmenistan attaches great importance to its cooperation with the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, and has signed a bilateral agreement with it. In May 1996 Turkmenistan, together with other countries of Central Asia, and in cooperation with the United 24 Nations International Drug Control Programme, signed a memorandum on regional cooperation concerning control of illegal production, trafficking and abuse of narcotic drugs. We need to make extraordinary efforts in order to control the situation, roll back the spiral of evil and reverse the situation whereby the problem of drugs grows in proportion to the efforts made to combat it. Turkmenistan is actively cooperating with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the United Nations in developing democratic processes so as to bring up new generations free from the old psychological stereotypes and doubtful ideological values. Democracy, human rights, people’s rights to property and legal protection are all universal notions. However, it is not enough simply to understand their relevance; it is necessary to implement them in real life once and for all. What we need is patience and time to allow such understanding to be translated into practical reality. That is why Turkmenistan has created an institute for democracy, human rights and statehood development, which is called upon to develop its own model of a democratic society, relying on the best European and Asian experiences and drawing on the knowledge of international experts. One does not have to be a specialist in order to understand that, no matter how perfect a model proposed from outside may seem, it might not be effective when applied to a traditional Oriental society such as exists in Turkmenistan, a country that has inherited values from ancient civilizations and the culture of Islam. There is also a specific mentality among its people, who have for centuries fought for their survival and have eventually acquired the chance to be independent and have their own national identity. The agenda of the current session includes an item dealing with the development of cooperation between the United Nations and its bodies and the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO). During the last summit of that organization, which was held in May 1996 in the capital of Turkmenistan, my country assumed the presidency for the next two-year period, and it intends to exert every effort necessary to implement the large-scale programmes of this organization, which now comprises 10 countries. The ECO is a purely economic organization with no political strings attached. It members share a common view on this matter. Similarly, we believe that only the acceleration of economic development and the improvement of cooperation among States can bring well-being and prosperity to the peoples of the region. However, a number of political preconditions are indispensable for developing economic interaction so that it can be effective and fruitful. I believe that a climate of political trust is the first requirement. If such a climate becomes a constant factor in our relations, it will contribute to the advancement of new, bold initiatives and specific projects. To put it plainly, we must profess a philosophy of mutual understanding and trust. It is only under such conditions that our projects can be successfully implemented. That is especially important because conflict situations persist in the ECO region, in Tajikistan and Afghanistan. Turkmenistan firmly believes that these two ancient and wise peoples are capable of overcoming the syndrome of lingering mistrust and difference. We fully support the initiative of the United Nations and the efforts of neighbouring countries aimed at a peaceful settlement. As for Afghanistan, we consider it important that the conflict there has moved from being in a category of forgotten conflicts to the centre of international efforts. By conducting constant consultations with the leaders of neighbouring countries and the Secretary-General, the President of Turkmenistan, Saparmurat Niyazov, has expressed Turkmenistan’s readiness to take an active part in the search for an Afghan settlement. The fate of many global economic projects hinges on peace in Afghanistan, in particular the supply of energy resources to actively developing energy markets in Asia. Next month Turkmenistan will celebrate the fifth anniversary of its independence. Today we can discern more clearly the perspectives and understand better in what areas we should develop cooperation with foreign partners. We can clearly see and evaluate the situation at home, in the region and the rest of the world. Accumulated experience enables us to say that Turkmenistan has found its place in the international community, both politically and economically. By consistently and progressively 25 moving towards the democratization of our society and the establishment of market mechanisms in the economy, our State is becoming integrated into the worldwide process. By closely interacting with foreign partners and pursuing a vigorous foreign policy, we are confident that these tasks will be implemented promptly and efficiently.﻿At the outset, allow me, Sir, to convey to you and to this Assembly the greetings and congratulations of the Peruvian people, as well as their best wishes and hopes for the future. Peru is a country that has successfully dealt with its domestic contradictions, and which is looking with vision and determination towards the broad new horizons of international activity. A careful review of what has been achieved to date reveals that much remains to be done; but it also shows that we are following the right course in addressing the demands of our times. However, it would be superficial to use this Assembly, whose central theme is the reform of the United Nations, to recapitulate the events of the past year. We must wake up to the outcome of a long historical process that has accelerated markedly over the last quarter of a century and established around the world a network of international organizations that today exceed the number of States. We must also wake up to a fortunate new development: the individual human being has acquired a position of cardinal importance in the international system. The organizations established by States to satisfy international, human and regional needs, have acquired a permanent character and have created new systems of international relations. When we speak today of reforming the United Nations, no one fails to acknowledge that new mechanisms are required to promote greater development and economic and social stability in the world, and to face current and future conflicts between and within States. There is discussion of the possibility of creating a new economic council and a new social council, as well as expanding and strengthening the Security Council. At the same time, the need has emerged to transform and rationalize the United Nations system, together with the imperative of resolving the Organization’s financial crisis. But in order to carry out those reforms, we need to have a clear-sighted appreciation of the international scene and to adapt the Organization to that reality, so that we can achieve a fruitful and forward-looking perspective. It is necessary for States, in the framework of the United Nations system, to overcome their traditional activities and jointly engage in tasks to deal with those new realities so as to achieve broader representation and functionality, with the possibility of future growth. 13 When the United Nations was founded in 1945, at the end of the Second World War, international relations were different from today. The end of the cold war and the realities of regional integration have made necessary a new vision of the relationship between State sovereignty and the supra-national realities of the international system. Huge social and economic challenges make it necessary for us to persevere in pursuing the purposes and principles of the Charter, to strengthen diplomatic action, and not to succumb to arbitrary interpretations of international legality, which undermine the indispensable primacy of international law. Today the inadequacy of the nation State is more evident than ever, and the appreciation of supranational structures is more widespread than in the past. We discard the simplistic visions of pure internationalism, but we uphold the validity, of the entities that are active today alongside or above State sovereignty. The vitality of the Andean Common Market, the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) and the European Union shows us a future of common and vigorous legal international arrangements. We are facing the definitive crisis of nationalism, if not of full legal competence of the nation State. International law today appears as the only framework of standards with which to face the new realities. There can be no doubt that the nuclear reality was one of the factors that transformed the traditional concept of the nation State. The ability to foresee its results has made the decision to accept war more exceptional, and non-atomic armies have adhered to broader, supranational military organizations. Atomic weapons have abolished the impermeability of the nation State. We are likewise faced with a crisis of the very concept of borders. Traditionally, empires thought of themselves only in terms of being an extension of their borders. Today borders are not an obstacle to integration. However, this does not imply that we are building a universal State, a global “cosmocracy”. There are natural limits to the territorial applicability of laws, and it is true that the concentration of power has unbreachable limits, beyond which it cannot go. Accordingly, history has so far not led us to a universal State, but rather to a freer structure, a complex political pluralism with a common general foundation of representative democracy, individual liberties and economic freedom. We are facing new, functionally limited supra-statal powers, with different arrangements that differ in scope and intensity and that are superimposed upon the system of State borders. The modern theory of the State forged by Machiavelli and Bodin, the concept of the State as an absolute power that excludes any other power, is today fading. For more than 20 years States have recognized forces superior to themselves. The idea of the unlimited sovereign State has broken down; the linchpin of the whole theory of the modern State has broken down. Today sovereignty continues to exist, but not as unlimited political power, but rather as full constitutional legal competence. That seventeenth-century concept that inspired the Peace of Westphalia, cuius regio eius religio — that each State should have a religion — has been left behind. This is more apparent than ever at the end of the cold war, when the secular beliefs that confronted the world have been discarded. Today the cohesion of human societies is governed by universal concepts. The new reality leads us to assert that State sovereignty has already been made subject to international law — and, it can be said, to natural law — thus negating the theoretical legitimacy of the State that was born with the modern age. This in no way means that there is no longer a need for patriotism, the concept of fatherland or national histories. It means, instead, that the myth of the nationalist State has collapsed. In a truly human breakthrough and not a purely technological one, all moral values today are reduced to their personal roots. Today, neither Governments nor the governed can shirk the ethical imperatives that rule equally over their public and private conduct. This is due both to the process just outlined and to a wholly new and far-reaching technological revolution in mass communications. The law of nations was at first a principle of commercial intercourse. It later came to apply to only one kind of actor: the nation State. Today, an open functional regionalism is bringing about far-reaching changes that are swiftly altering the existing order, and the United Nations would be ill-advised to disregard that new reality in strengthening the Security Council and reforming its institutions. This is the cornerstone upon which the United Nations should be re-founded, now that the circumstances of power which governed its life at the close of the Second World War and during the cold war have been overcome. We should not lose sight of the fact that, although the act of consent that forged this new, open, functional regionalism was the work of the nation State, today that regionalism is already a supranational reality 14 that has taken on a life of its own and is spreading around the world. Inter-statal balances of power are giving way to regional balances of power that are not concentrated in a single focal point of power and that are more decentralized and more rational. The future will be one in which an international system with freer and more flexible structures will be based on the freedom of man as an individual, as a person. This obliges States, within the framework of the United Nations system, to go beyond their traditional activities and jointly engage in management activities in the Organization based on the new cultural, economic and geographical reality made up of broad functional regional areas. I say once again: this is the keystone of the foundation of the new edifice of the United Nations. I have come here to reiterate the commitment of Peru and of the Peruvian people to the United Nations, but also to warn that the new realities that must not be ignored. Those realities have guided the policy of President Alberto Fujimori and are the inspiration for his Government’s far-reaching and successful reform. Peru, in its continental relations, today bases its foreign policy upon the principles of open functional regionalism and strives to link the Pacific with the Atlantic through supranational arrangements. Rooted in its rich Latin-American heritage, my country sees its future in continental terms, drawing upon Latin America’s important contribution in the area of integration, international law and mechanisms for peace and security. Accordingly, we are convinced that organizational changes in the United Nations should be based on those same principles. ﻿On behalf of the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, I would like to congratulate you warmly, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. We are truly proud that you, an experienced representative of Malaysia, a member country of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), have been elected to this important position. We are confident that, under your guidance, our session will achieve many fine results. Let me take this opportunity to express our high appreciation of the performance of your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral. We also hold in high regard the dynamism and perseverance of Secretary- General Boutros Boutros-Ghali in the service of our common cause. Last year at this time, we had the opportunity to take a retrospective look at the world’s development over the past half-century and the role played by the United Nations in this long journey. One year later, the world landscape is still full of contrasts, interwoven with factors and trends of hope and with events and tendencies that give rise to the concerns of the international community at this end of the twentieth century. In a world of teeming changes, what emerges as invariable are the legitimate aspiration and vigorous determination of nations to achieve peace and development based on equality, democracy, respect for the independence and sovereignty of each country and the identity of each nation. In this grand endeavour, peoples turn to the United Nations for timely support and fruitful assistance because the Organization, having waded through the vicissitudes of a half-century of history, has been daily affirming its crucial role for the world as a whole. Today’s challenge for our world Organization is how to reform and adapt itself to the new international circumstances in order to meet the expectations of the peoples. As the system of international relations in the post- cold-war era takes shape, we can already see its trend towards diversification and multicentrism. In this context, multilateral institutions and mechanisms, especially the United Nations, have assumed an ever-more essential role. However, there are various ways of interpreting the role of our Organization today. As regards the vast majority of the Member countries, the United Nations, in its capacity as a centre for harmonizing inter-State relations, should play a fundamental role in firmly defending international law and in encouraging States’ strict and consistent respect for and observation of the United Nations Charter. In this spirit, the United Nations must use its weight and responsibility to stem the practices — such as coercion and imposition, arbitrary embargo and sanctions that bring suffering to innocent people, and flagrant interference in the internal affairs of States, in violation of their independence and sovereignty — that run counter to the current general trends. To play its role adequately, the United Nations must reform itself so as to increase the representativeness of its institutional organs and to democratize and ensure greater 15 transparency in our Organization’s working procedures and methods. The cornerstones of the democratization of the United Nations system are the reform of the Security Council and the enhancement of the role of the General Assembly. This is a complex and difficult task which requires utmost perseverance. The expansion of the composition of the Security Council and the democratization of its decision-making procedures constitute an urgent demand of the international community. At the same time, the authority and role of the General Assembly, the broadest and most representative body, must be strengthened in response to the legitimate appeal of us all. Certainly, the reform must be undertaken on the basis of the agreed principles, particularly that of consensus, reflecting to the fullest extent the views and aspirations of the majority of the member countries and ensuring the interests of the different regions. If in today’s world democracy in a society means the active participation of its citizens, democracy in international relations requires the active participation of all countries, large or small, rich or poor. Only an increasingly democratized United Nations can enjoy the prestige and confidence necessary for playing its role in harmonizing the actions of States on the basis of international law, as all desire it to. Let us build upon the momentum gathered at the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations so that on entering the twenty-first century, the United Nations can truly serve as an example of democratization in the world’s political life. The wise way to achieve the common objectives of national independence, peace and development is that of cooperation in the spirit of equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit. The globalization of the world economy, the liberalization of trade and investment and the dizzying advances of science and technology now present every State with both unprecedented opportunities and imposing challenges. It is no mere coincidence that the recent summit of the seven major industrialized countries, the G-7, in Lyons, focused on the theme of globalization. However, the developing countries, and especially the underdeveloped ones, are approaching this trial that is so vital for their development and prosperity poorly equipped and in extremely difficult conditions. Therefore, it is incumbent upon the international community and in particular the developed countries, to give the required attention and adequate assistance to help solve this crucial equation, because it is impossible to accept, in the context of interdependence, a world in which affluence is concentrated in a small number of countries while the majority of countries continue to struggle against increasing poverty and the gap between the rich and the poor grows inexorably wider. Given its strength and prestige, the United Nations is able to and needs to play a useful role in this process. In implementing the Agenda for Development, our Organization should concentrate first on the regions in difficulty and on the essential issues. With its financial resources and groups of experts, the United Nations system can assist the countries of the South to overcome their disadvantaged position and succeed in their efforts for timely regional and global integration, in the context of an economic, trade, scientific and technological race on a global scale. In Viet Nam, for instance, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is carrying out projects to assist us in our integration into the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN). UNDP is also playing an active and effective role to facilitate the establishment of a framework for cooperation among the countries along the Mekong. UNDP is currently working on a national capacity-building project so that Viet Nam can be prepared to participate more effectively in the World Trade Organization (WTO) in the near future. Such practical bilateral and multilateral development projects are to be welcomed. However, we are now facing a glaring paradox: the need for international cooperation for development continues to grow, while the available means become ever more scarce and natural resources more depleted. In the fierce competition for development, States must concentrate their resources on domestic needs in order to restructure their economies and solve the pressing social problems, thus enhancing their internal strength. That is quite understandable. Nevertheless, in the current context of increasing interdependence among States, international cooperation, especially the flow of capital and technology transfer from the developed to the developing countries is indispensable, and it is also necessary and beneficial for the sustainable development of the developed countries themselves. Moreover, today, when urgent global issues are strengthening links between all States, a danger to one nation may also affect others, and the stability and prosperity enjoyed by one society may contribute to an environment favourable for the stability and prosperity of other societies. 16 Hunger, illness, social injustice and other phenomena are all potential threats to the security of each country and the stability of the world as a whole. Allocating of resources to support the development of developing countries and contributing in various ways to bilateral and multilateral international cooperation for development are wise investments for peace and for the shared future of all of our societies. The United Nations is not immune to this discrepancy between resources and the needs for development assistance. Today, the resources available to the United Nations are not increasing; on the contrary, they are shrinking or being overextended. This worrisome situation calls for the attention and responsibility of all Member States, especially of the major Powers and developed countries that possess greater resources and potential. The measure to be taken immediately, in the unanimous view of Member States, is for every State to fulfil its financial obligations. Moreover, all initiatives to provide supplementary resources for the United Nations should be encouraged. Recently, scholars and renowned personalities have advanced numerous interesting proposals in this regard. We are of the view that the General Assembly should assign the Working Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations and other relevant working groups the task of seriously studying these proposals in order to explore all possible ways of providing the United Nations with the resources necessary to actively assist in development for all — first and foremost, that of the underdeveloped countries. The United Nations has a rather weighty responsibility regarding the demands of development. Its role in the globalization process is therefore no less crucial. Since the beginning of this decade the United Nations has initiated and organized a number of world summit conferences on a set of global issues ranging from environment to social development, from population to human rights, from women to children — and coming up we have the World Food Summit, the aim of which is to find and implement coordinated measures at all levels — national, regional, and international — to solve problems of importance for the future of all nations. If in the resolution of crisis and conflicts the participation of the majority of countries is somewhat limited or even indirect, through an intermediary mechanism, in the resolution of the global issues for development the United Nations has been able to mobilize the direct participation of all countries, big and small, rich and poor, developed and developing, because these are not just “to whom it may concern” issues. In this manner, the United Nations can succeed in its efforts to emerge from a mere reactive role to crises and conflicts and play a proactive role in preventing such conflicts and crises. Clearly, the resolution of global issues is always broadly democratic in nature. For all these reasons, we hold that the United Nations should further strengthen its role of assistance and coordination in this essential field and continue to advance the implementation of programmes of action already adopted. It is evident that no organization can replace the United Nations in this vital role. In fulfilling this role, the United Nations will see its prestige enhanced and its image brought closer to the life of each nation and each human being. The year 1996 will go down in the history of Viet Nam as the beginning of a new stage of development of our country. Last June, the Eighth Congress of the Communist Party of Viet Nam was successfully concluded. The special significance of this historic event is that, based on the successes achieved over the last 10 years of renewal, reform and national revival, the Congress decided to lead the country into a new phase of industrialization and modernization, with a view to doubling by the year 2000 the 1990 per-capita gross domestic product and essentially transforming Viet Nam into an industrialized country in the next 20 to 25 years. At the same time, we have reaffirmed the pursuit of our foreign policy of independence and sovereignty, openness, the diversification and multilateralism of our international relations, and regional and international integration. It is because of this direction that the foreign policy of Viet Nam has achieved and continues to achieve outstanding results, assisting in the work of nation- building and development in a practical way, and effectively contributing to the resolution of international problems. Viet Nam has established diplomatic relations with over 160 countries, including all the major Powers and the most prominent world political-economic centres. Viet Nam has commercial relations with more than 100 countries and investment ties with over 50 countries and territories. In addition to expanding its relations with countries of all continents, last year as a full member of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, one of the most dynamic and successful of regional organizations, Viet Nam actively contributed to regional and world cooperation and development. 17 We are participating more actively in the work of international organizations, especially those of the United Nations system, as well regional organizations. This year, Viet Nam begins its term as a member of the UNICEF Executive Board, and will present its candidature for a seat on the Economic and Social Council at this session of the General Assembly. We hope to receive the support of Member countries of the United Nations to be able to contribute our share to the work of that important body, developing and coordinating policies of economic and social development and cooperation. We are currently preparing for the successful organization of the upcoming seventh Francophone summit to be held in November 1997 at Hanoi. As regards broader integration, Viet Nam is also actively preparing to participate soon in other international organizations, such as the World Trade Organization and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum. As a new member of the Conference on Disarmament, Viet Nam played an active part in the negotiations on the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which it recently signed. By signing that Treaty, Vietnam joined in the broad appeal of the international community that all States refrain from all nuclear testing, regardless of the form, strictly observe the ban on all nuclear-tests and undertake concrete steps and measures towards the total elimination of all nuclear weapons. Viet Nam stands ready to cooperate with all countries for the effective implementation of the Treaty, contributing to a cleaner environment, to greater confidence and to consolidation of international security, aimed at a more secure and healthy world. At the same time, we hold that the verification activities of the Treaty implementation process must be carried out in a fair and impartial manner, with strict respect for the sovereignty of States. In this spirit, we view that the proposal for a programme of action for the elimination of nuclear weapons submitted recently at the Conference on Disarmament by 28 States, including Viet Nam, deserves serious consideration. To achieve the objective and sincere desire to build a Viet Nam with a prosperous people, a strong nation and a just and civilized society, we are determined to bring into full play the achievements of the reform and renewal process and equip ourselves with the internal strength needed to move forward steadily on the path of integration. On the basis of our current international relations, we will strengthen our cooperation with other countries and international and regional organizations; we will enhance productivity; we will consolidate the peaceful environment and create international conditions still more favourable, in the service of the prosperity of our nation as well as for the prosperity of the region and the world. At the threshold of the third millennium, all nation- States are subject to strong pressures of both opportunity and challenge. The vast ability of mankind in this age, together with the extraordinary advances in science and technology, offers us hope for development and prosperity for all nations. Yet the poverty that afflicts more than one fifth of the world population and the gap between the rich and the poor raise concerns. The opportunities seem great but the challenges are acutely felt. To begin the twenty- first century with more hope than anxiety, it will be important for us first to enhance our sense of responsibility and broaden our overall long-term interests: those of peace and development. There is no doubt that the United Nations, the Organization to which we all belong, will contribute actively towards achieving that end.  First of all, Sir, I wish to express our pleasure at seeing the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Honduras — a country with which we have long-standing and well-established ties of friendship and with which we are currently working in the Security Council — preside over this meeting. I would also like through you to convey my Government's congratulations to Ambassador Razali Ismail on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. This is a transitional period for the United Nations and is therefore not devoid of complexities and uncertainty. Yet we still have confidence in the ability of Member States and in the privileged forum provided by this Organization to develop new policies and management structures to deal with the gamut of emerging international problems. As this session of the General Assembly begins, we once again renew our commitment to the principles and purposes of the Charter, the living instrument essential to the future work of this Organization. The United Nations is an Organization which, through its nature, principles and objectives, transcends any individual or national interests to represent, instead, the interests of all. Not even those who criticize the United Nations in the hopes that they can weaken it or shrink its role have ever been able to propose any better way for us to come together to address the major problems of an increasingly interdependent world. That is why we are convinced that, far from becoming weaker, this Organization will be called upon to play an increasingly important role in this new era of globalization, in which cooperation is the only possible option for a true international order. International peace and security, free trade, social development based on growth with equity, environmental protection, democracy and human rights are the basic components of the future work of our multilateral system. These are the areas of action of our Organization to which Chile attaches the highest priority and in which we will try, within our means to make our greatest contribution. It has often been said that the end of the super-Power confrontation that characterized the first 50 years of the life of this Organization makes it easier than ever to shape the conditions for peace and stability. And yet, the challenges of bipolar confrontation have been replaced by new ones posed by the emergence of numerous local conflicts. These are often characterized by mass violations of human rights, uncontrolled population flows and humanitarian emergencies that threaten the security of individuals and States and eventually may affect the international system as a whole. Our participation in the work of the Security Council is aimed at contributing our fair share to the maintenance of international peace and security. We encourage preventive diplomacy, consensus solutions, the implementation of measures to contain conflicts, the promotion of peaceful solutions through peace-keeping operations, conciliation, good offices and, in particular, the protection of affected populations and victims. At the same time, it is indisputable that peace and security are not simply the absence of tensions and conflict between States. Harmony between people within the same border has now become a fundamental factor in international peace and security. Chile has suggested that the Security Council should act in cases where there is a real or potential risk of mass and systematic violations to which the international community has reacted strongly and when earlier mechanisms or bodies trying to resolve the problem have been exhausted. Recent measures adopted by the Council, such as resolution 688 (1991) on protecting the Kurdish minority, 770 (1992) on providing assistance to victims of the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, resolution 986 (1995) on alleviating the burden of sanctions on the civilian Iraqi population, are a few examples of a broader and more progressive interpretation of what constitutes a threat to peace and establish valuable precedents for helping the Security Council to deal with these kinds of conflict. These criteria also guided us in our active participation on the question of Burundi, which led to the adoption of resolution 1072 (1996) establishing procedures for the various parties to the conflict to be able to agree on a political path to a peaceful resolution of their differences. We must continue to pay close attention to developments in this situation. The international community, the United Nations and the Security Council cannot risk another tragedy like that of Rwanda and must exhaust all possible means of averting such a tragedy. Today we would also like to express our great concern at the serious crisis that has arisen in the last few 6 General Assembly 11th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 26 September 1996 hours affecting the peace process in the Middle East, a process we have supported from the outset. We urge the parties to the conflict not to waste what has been built up in the last few years and to resume dialogue within the context of respect for agreements reached and for the beliefs of the peoples involved. Establishing stability requires clear commitment to disarmament and arms control and limitation. My country has played an active role in this area, as shown in the recent ratification of the Chemical Weapons Convention, membership in the Conference on Disarmament, which Chile had long aspired to, ratification of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and our unstinting support for nuclear-weapon-free zones. Last Tuesday, 24 September 1996, I had the honour to sign on behalf of my country the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty. Just one year ago, this Assembly was discussing the nuclear-weapon tests still being conducted in the South Pacific and Asia. Today we are meeting to sign a Treaty that eliminates those tests once and for all and is the combined effort of almost all the countries in this Assembly, including all the present nuclear-weapon States. When the United Nations is criticized for its alleged inefficiency I think we should also vaunt our successes. These initiatives, along with progress in the area of conventional weapons and weapons of mass destruction, help to create the right conditions for peace and security and enable the international community to concentrate its efforts and material resources on the development of nations and environmental protection. Peacekeeping operations are one of the most important instruments of this system. Peacekeeping forces have to strive for results in the framework of clear and well-defined and legitimate mandates. Chile has participated in peacekeeping operations in India, Pakistan, the Middle East, Cambodia and Kuwait, and we are currently taking part in the activities of the United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) in Iraq. However, there is no doubt that this mechanism needs to be tailored to dealing with current political circumstances. To this end, Chile is active in deliberations on how to improve planning and rapid-reaction capacity to deal with incipient conflicts. In all these aspects, a multilateral approach, action that enjoys the consent of the parties and financing through the Organization all help to ensure success in our work. We hope to increase significantly our contribution to operations such as the ones I have just described. A broad understanding of the maintenance of international peace and security requires decisive action in the area of social development, democracy and the promotion of human rights. The world order of the next century will need broader basic freedoms. The global society of the next century is appearing as an open, heterogenous one, rich in material potential and new developments. What is needed now is to create conditions to enable people and States to make the most of this new setting, with increased access to the goods that are the fruit of rapid technological development. In this respect, the six recent world conferences and summits on the environment and development, human rights, population and development, women, social development and, most recently, human settlements, have all been geared towards promoting protection of the individual and gradually creating a framework for social rights. One tangible result of these meetings, in the social area, was the emergence of national coordinating bodies to implement the agreements signed. But these efforts are not enough, given the tragic reality of most of the less developed peoples, which means that the United Nations system must play an ever stronger role in the international social area. We must speed up the process of implementation within the context of the United Nations and of the agreements that emerged from Rio de Janeiro, Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen, Beijing and Istanbul. The first steps have now been taken within the various bodies of the system, particularly in the Economic and Social Council and its functional commissions. It is encouraging that the Economic and Social Council bodies dealing with sustainable development, women, social development and population have adopted multi-year agendas as a follow-up to the conferences. Similarly, the agreements reached at the World Summit for Social Development include the decision to hold a special session of this Assembly in the year 2000 to assess the implementation of the agreements. In this connection, Chile wishes to propose the establishment of a working group of this Assembly that, with that special session as its basis, can provide follow- up to the six conferences, taking into account the Agenda for Development, so that in the year 2000 the General 7 General Assembly 11th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 26 September 1996 Assembly can take up a very wide-ranging and coordinated assessment of the implementation of the commitments of the 1990s and make the necessary recommendations for future work. In recent years Latin America has taken major steps forward with regard to free trade. This Assembly has already heard about progress in the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), Chile's recent accession to that agreement and MERCOSUR’s decision to negotiate similar agreements with the Andean Group and Mexico. Taken alongside the progress made by other subregional groups, such as the Central America Common Market (CACM) and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), these achievements all go to show the new impetus in Latin America for integration based on economic ideas that differ from those of the past but that remain true to the political will for unity that has always existed among our peoples. However, none of these regional developments in which Chile has been very active constitutes an alternative to multilateralism. Chile continues to believe that a multilateral system to establish standards and practices to ensure free trade throughout the world, with clear institutional machinery for negotiations and dispute settlement, is the best option for the global economy and for each of our countries. For this reason we have always insisted that our negotiations fit into the multilateral framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO). Latin America wants to be integrated so that it can become more of a part of the global economy, not cut off from it. Our bilateral and regional agreements are based on open regionalism. The best proof that this is being put into practice is that during this period of increased integration, external tariffs in the countries of our region have also fallen considerably, compared with those of the rest of the world. One of the most promising developments of recent years has been the strengthening of the multilateral trade system through the establishment of the WTO. The existence of a standing multilateral forum means that more energy can be devoted to implementing the agreements reached and provides an institutional framework for continuous progress in negotiations and for opening up world trade. In this connection, Chile attaches great importance to the follow-up meeting to the Uruguay Round, to be held in Singapore in December 1996. This, the first biannual meeting in the framework of the WTO, will be crucial in determining how effective the new mechanism is. In the last few years many regions and countries in the world have made major progress towards broadening and consolidating democracy and respect for human rights. Latin America in particular has been experiencing a rapid movement towards democracy that is unprecedented in its history. This is accompanied by a considerable increase in political dialogue and regional coordination, evident mainly in the Rio Group, which has been active and fruitful for 10 years now. Far from making us complacent, this emphasizes our concern that in many parts of the world there are still situations of massive violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Sometimes these situations relate to the peace and security problems we mentioned earlier. As democracies develop, the support given them by the people depends more and more on their ability to ensure stable, efficient and transparent governments. The legitimacy of democratic governments is closely related to their accountability, but in many countries there is still corruption, inefficiency and insensitivity to social needs. This erodes the legitimacy of democracy and highlights its fragility. The Government of our President, Eduardo Frei, has made democratic governance the main subject of the sixth summit of Ibero-American Heads of State and Government, to be held in Chile in November 1996. To this end, we have enjoyed the valuable cooperation of the United Nations, through the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). We hope that our Organization's work in this area will spread to other regions in coming years. One of the most dramatic changes for mankind in the last few decades has been our awareness that nature is fragile in the hands of man. There is a vulnerability in nature we had not suspected until we saw the damage done, much of it irreparable. And so there is a new dimension to human responsibility to nature. The possibility of altering life on our planet for the worse means that our unbounded scientific and technological power must be accompanied by a new principle: and that is the idea of shared responsibility. The work facing us is hard, but the path was already laid out in 1992 at the Conference on Environment and 8 General Assembly 11th plenary meeting Fifty-first session 26 September 1996 Development. In Rio de Janeiro there was agreement on fundamental aspects. On the basis of the consensus, and the commitments reached there, my country is prepared to proceed. Since that Earth Summit, Chile has further developed its environmental legislation. We have embraced the principles of the Rio Declaration that we consider fundamental, such as preventing environmental pollution, cooperation and the primary responsibility of the polluter. The State has accepted its obligation to adopt the most suitable instruments for preventive environmental management. But we also believe that society must be given a leading role in protecting the environment, and to this end various social actors must be more committed and more responsible. My Government thinks it is also important to stress the political commitment of the world community to this issue that is by nature international and in many respects global. Hence, we attach great importance to the functioning of the bodies set up and to the monitoring of the agreements reached at the Earth Summit. Developments in the international arena, the increasing diversity of issues to be taken up and the number of actors involved in the United Nations — all of this revitalizing the reform process of our Organization essential in order to adapt it to emerging realities and challenges. Integrated and multidisciplinary focus must be given preference in dealing with these problems. This constitutes the conceptual framework of the Organization and a basis for the urgently needed process of reform. This requires a very thorough analysis of the content of our multilateral work, of the Organization's agenda, of the functioning of intergovernmental bodies, of our human and financial resources and of the structure of the Secretariat. By doing all that, we can carry out reforms that are more than rhetoric, that will enable us to take up the challenges of the next century with policies and organizations adapted to the new reality. Chile wishes to reiterate its appreciation for the work being done by the Secretary-General in this area. In difficult budgetary circumstances and facing a very difficult political situation, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali has decisively begun, within his purview, the process of reforming the Organization. We welcome all initiatives that can enhance the efficiency of our Organization, reduce its bureaucratic excesses or alleviate its financial problems. But we believe that United Nations reform should not be mistakenly identified with one single issue of administration or budgetary efficiency. There is quite a contradiction between saying that we need an Organization adapted to the new challenges and focused on the next century, and then reducing the practical debate simply to cost-cutting and better control of resources. We have to enhance administrative efficiency, but we must also appreciate substantive effectiveness. Our objective should be to strengthen the Organization as well as to streamline it. Before concluding, I cannot fail to mention a question of reform on this year's agenda that is more urgent than it was in previous years. The plethora of decisions taken by the Security Council has resulted in a growing desire on the part of the other Members of the United Nations to be more involved in Council decisions, so as to strengthen its legitimacy and the political support for its actions. Improving the working methods of the Security Council has opened up additional ways of enhancing its credibility. There has been progress, but much remains to be done, particularly in connection with consultations with countries that contribute troops to peacekeeping operations, consultations with countries neighbouring a conflict area that might be affected, and third States that are negatively affected by the application of sanctions. A second determining factor of legitimacy and political support for Council decisions relates to its membership. In this connection, Chile believes it essential to resolve once and for all the problems of increasing the membership of the Security Council, which have concerned the Assembly since 1992. We think there is a broad base of agreement for allowing Germany and Japan to become permanent members of the Council, and at the same time for giving developing countries one permanent seat per region, the occupants of which would be elected at the regional level. Also, in order to meet the need for representativity, given the great increase in membership of the United Nations in the last decade, the number of non-permanent seats should be increased from 10 to 15, with appropriate equitable geographical distribution. A membership of twenty-five members would not undermine the effectiveness of the Security Council but would enhance the representativity of its actions. However, we wish to emphasize that Chile is willing to act with maximum flexibility here. This means we are willing to consider other proposals by other Member States that also seek to combine the two fundamental elements that should guide our decision: recognition of the new international realities and a legitimate desire for representativity in the principal bodies of our system. We wished to touch upon those issues that, in Chile’s view, will be the Organization’s main tasks in the years to come, with a view to establishing the framework of stability and legitimacy necessary to achieve United Nations objectives. Chile commits its firm support to this difficult understanding, which will be attainable with the will and participation of all members of the international community. 